Good morning.
My name is Celeste and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Graphic Packaging First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn today's call over to Mr.
Ankerholz.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to the Graphic Packaging Holding Company First Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
Commenting on results this morning are David Scheible our President and CEO; and Dan Blount our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
To help you follow on with today's call we have provided a slide presentation.
This can be accessed by clicking on the Q1 earnings webcast link on the Investor Relations section of our website at graphicpkg.com.
Please note that in this presentation when we refer to EBITDA we are referring to results adjusted to produce comparable financial reporting.
The adjustments generally relate to prior year integration charges.
The attachments to the earnings release and a slide presentation appendix both of which are posted on the previous website have the tabulations of these and other non-GAAP measures.
I would like to remind everyone that statements of our expectations in this call constitute forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements including but not limited to statements relating to fiber and other raw material prices consumer demand and pricing trends capital expenditures cash pension contributions and pension expense depreciation and amortization interest expense debt and leverage reduction performance improvements and cost reduction initiatives including a closure of facilities are based on currently available information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from company’s expectations.
These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to the company’s substantial amount of debt inflation of and volatility in raw materials and energy costs cutback in consumer spending that could effect demand for the company's products continuing pressure for lower cost products and the company's ability to implement its business strategies including productivity initiatives and cost reduction plans.
Undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements as such statements speak only as of the date on which they are made and the company undertakes no obligation to update such statements.
Additional information regarding these and other risks is contained in the company’s periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
David I'll turn it over to you now.
Thanks Brad.
We're pleased with the first quarter results.
Adjusted earnings per share doubled to $0.08 from $0.04 last year and net cash from operations increased by more than $31 million same period 2010.
The strong storms throughout the Midwest in February forced the closure of a number of our facilities as well as our customers placing pressure on volumes for the quarter.
However volumes began to recover in March and it continue to return to more normalized levels.
The other significant headwind that we faced this quarter was higher input costs particularly externally purchased board and bag paper.
The cost for secondary fiber and petro-based chemicals also increased.
Despite all of this we were able to deliver relatively flat sales in adjusted EBITDA.
Pricing continued to be positive in the quarter and should remain so for the remainder of the year.
We continue to take cost out in the quarter achieving over $20 million in cost take out and we reinforced our original target of $80 million for the full year.
We are also in the process of implementing a number of additional steps to further combat inflation.
As a result we remain comfortable with our original 4-year debt reduction target from operations we laid out on our last earnings call.
During the quarter we made a few structural changes to the business as well.
An important element of ongoing cost-reduction is optimizing our converting footprint by closing less profitable plants and consolidating into newer better capitalized facilities that are located closer to our mills.
The best way to offset fuel cost is to simply eliminate the freight entirely.
Earlier this week we announced the closure of our Cincinnati beverage carton plant.
While it's always a difficult decision to close a facility in this case it was necessary in order to maintain our competitive position and ensure the long-term strength of our business.
The business in Cincinnati will be transitioned to our converting plants in West Monroe Louisiana and Perry Georgia.
The transition plan includes an expansion to the Perry site and will capitalize on Perry and West Monroe's close proximity to our Macon Georgia and West Monroe Louisiana mills respectively.
We were also pleased to be able to announced the acquisition of Sierra Pacific Packaging a highly respected northern California producer of folding cartons for beverage carriers and litho-laminated boxes for the consumer packaged good industry.
They're the leading supplier to fast-growing craft beer segment and at the strong position of litho-lam wine boxes.
This is a unique opportunity for Graphic Packaging as it provides us with a strategic location to service customers in the West Coast and enhances operating synergies.
Strategically this acquisition does 3 things.
First it extends our core product offerings and provides new growth opportunities.
Second it improves our core operating platform by better integrating our Santa Clara California board mill with an additional West Coast converting facility located nearby.
And finally it leverages our integration expertise to drive synergies.
The acquisition price was $53.5 million and we anticipate the initial annual synergies to be in the $2 million to $4 million range.
I am pleased also that Allen Ennis the primary owner of Sierra Pacific will be joining the Graphic Packaging team.
This acquisition is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2011 and we'll provide additional updates at our next earning call.
Yesterday we closed the offering of 47 million shares of new common stock and raised roughly $213 million of net proceeds.
The offering accomplishes a couple of things.
1 it assists an acceleration of our debt reduction a key important part of our focus and improves our capital structure.
Second it will increase the liquidity of our stock.
Debt reduction remains a key focus and we're now targeting a net leverage ratio of around 3.5 debt to EBITDA by the end of the year.
In addition to paying down debt we will use a portion of the proceeds to repurchase 6.5 million common shares held by the Grover C.
Coors Trust and to acquire substantially all of the assets of Sierra Pacific Packaging.
We talked a little bit more about operating's results.
Before I do I'd like to just take a minute to address the current situation in Japan.
The effects of the world's earthquake are devastating and our hearts go out to our Japanese friends and colleagues and those who have lost so much.
Fortunately all of our employees are safe and there was no material damage to our facilities or the large majority of our customers' facilities either.
While beer consumption has obviously declined in Japan as a result of the tsunami there is SKU consolidation among the major brewers around the 6-pack wrap size.
This is our primary product offering and as a result at this time we do not foresee any major disruption to our Japanese business.
I need profile a few more details on how the first quarter operating results were generated.
Our mills had another strong quarter performing above our expectations due to improved initiatives and energy and operating efficiencies and reductions in fixed costs.
Tons-per-day production increased nearly 1% and we generated over $7 million in cost savings from our continuous improvement efforts.
Backlogs remain seasonally strong in both our CRB and SUS networks.
Going forward we continue to see significant opportunities to reduce our cost structure in the mills and our focused 3 key areas this year: trim and grade optimization; water and energy conservation including higher levels of biomass utilization; and fiber yield improvement.
Turning to the Folding Carton business.
Volumes of our Paperboard Packaging segment decreased 4% in the quarter with the closures from the February storms having a material impact in the middle of the quarter.
The February impact was particularly acute in the dry and frozen food items that are key grocery staples most of which are packaged in the Midwest.
Cereal sales were down 1% year-on-year for the quarter.
Overall we were able to offset this volume impact with market share gains across the sector as well as some general improvements in the March trends.
Trends in the beverage end-use markets were a little different this quarter as we saw improved volume in the beer segments while soft drink and take-home was softer in the U.S.
We also saw a slight shift from can packs to bottles in the larger beer brands as well as continued growth in the craft segment implying premium sales in beer are recovering.
Our European beer business experienced increased sales due primarily to price realization and some underlying volume growth.
Looking at our Flexible business both sales and volume trends improved sequentially from the fourth quarter.
On a year-over-year basis sales increased around 4% predominantly as a result of higher pricing from the recovery of purchased paper inflation in 2010.
But volume continued to decline in nearly 7% as a result of the continued weakness in the construction and end-use markets.
New product sales were about 12% ahead of first quarter last year almost $71 million.
Our microwave strength in barrier platforms all continue to contribute to our product growth.
In microwave we actually launched a new line of pretzel bread snacks under the LEAN POCKETS brand which utilize our susceptor sleeve and Wal-Mart introduced a new brand of meals using our Smart Pouch steamable bag technology.
In the strength platform Unilever wants their Magnum ice cream bar product in retail-ready Litho-Flute carton and enhance the shelf appeal and provides superior shipping protection.
Kellogg commercialized 2 high cal for strength solutions for their Pop Tart treats and Rice Krispies cereals in the warehouse clubs and Lance utilized our patented Z-Flute structure for a new sandwich pack in the warehouse clubs as well.
In the Rigid Barrier platform we continue to rollout a fourth quarter of our new detergent package with Sun products for their surf and Sun brands.
We also experienced gross in our Flexible Barrier Packaging first quarter with Freshgard and Fresh Lock technologies in our Multiple Bag business.
Freshgard barrier paper technology has a dominant share in the retail instant oatmeal category and is expanded to food service with the launch of McDonald's Oatmeal breakfast program as well.
Talk a little bit about price inflation.
Overall price were meaningfully positive in the first quarter with an addition -- with $24 million year-on-year improvement.
A majority of the price recovery is a direct result of the look-back nature of our supplier agreements and reflect a higher inflation we experienced in 2010.
As a result we expect prices will continue to increase as we move through 2011.
Commodity input inflation was roughly $30 million for the quarter but about half of this was due to higher priced externally purchased for in multi-wall bag paper.
Fortunately the nature of our customer contracts allow for a quicker recovery of changes in external board prices and we will expect significant recovery yet in 2011 of these inputs.
Other input costs that saw increase on a year-over-year basis in the first quarter include secondary fiber or OCC and mill chemicals.
As oil hovers around $110 a barrels we have instituted fuel surcharges to address rising freight costs.
Additionally we are moving more products by rail through our converting network.
Dan will discuss individual components of inflation in more detail during his discussion.
In the first quarter we announced price increases of $40 per ton per CUK and $40 per ton per CRB effective in April.
In the first quarter we announced increase of $45 per ton per CUK and $40 per ton for CRB effective in early April.
I also want to remind you that in 2010 we announced aggregate price increases of $135 per ton in CUK and $165 per ton in CRB.
As a result we should expect to see further benefits from open market board pricing in the upcoming quarters.
Our bottom line for 2011 remains unchanged despite a difficult operating environment.
Pricing should remain positive to the end of the year and we plan to accelerate our cost-reduction initiatives to fully realized saving in excess of our original target of $80 million.
While volumes across the Folding sector are now expected to prove significantly we do expect to offset the early softness of the new product launches and market share gains and expansion in the Far East.
I'll now turn the call over to Dan for a more detailed discussion of our financial results.
Dan? Thanks David and good morning everyone.
David took you through the operational highlights of the quarter.
I'll focus on financial results.
My comments follow the flow of our presentation and we start on Page 10.
Overall the first quarter was in line with our expectations and we remain on track for the full year performance we guided to you on our last call.
In particular we continue to forecast net debt reduction from operating cash flows in the $200 million to $220 million range.
Note that this reduction is in addition to the debt reduction that will result from our recent equity offering.
Taking a look at first quarter highlights we see operating cash flow improved as we generated $6.1 million in the quarter compared to a use of $25.2 million in the first quarter last year.
Income from operations at $68.6 million is $9 million higher than Q1 last year.
Net income for the first quarter improved to $26.7 million from $6.3 million.
This represents an improvement of $0.06 per share.
And EBITDA for the quarter was $142.7 million versus an adjusted figure of $144.8 million in the prior year.
February weather disruptions that David talked about impacted EBITDA by an estimated $3 million.
Adjusting for these disruptions EBITDA would have come in slightly better than the prior year.
I'll provide further comments on EBITDA shortly.
The largest year-over-year improvement was in net income which benefited from continuing reduction in interest expense as we reduced net debt by $224 million over the past year and improved Q1 cash flow generation.
Q1 interest expense dropped $5.7 million or nearly 13%.
Income tax expense was reduced to $5.7 million as we utilized the NOL and reduced non-cash charges.
And lastly completion of Altivity integration benefited 2011 results as $8.5 million of Q1 2010 charges did not repeat.
Now let's move to the revenue waterfall on Slide 11.
We see the net sales are just over $1 billion were down slightly 0.3% compared to the prior year.
As expected price benefited the quarter adding $24 million to the top line.
The improvement was principally driven by higher open market board pricing and contractual inflation recovery on our converted products.
As we are over 80% integrated for both of our price improvement comes from inflation recovery mechanism included in our packaging supply agreements.
Recently we have received numerous questions on this topic so I'm going to take a moment to describe how the price recovery provisions work.
First let's talk about timing.
The inflation recovery provisions are based on look-back calculations that are triggered on either 3 6 or 12-month intervals.
On average the look-back theory is approximately 9 months.
So to provide clarity let's to take 2011 for instance.
The inflationary exchange in input costs looking back 9 months principally into -- back into 2010 will be used to calculate the price recovery to be recognized in 2011.
The second question is how is the inflation change determined? In the contracts the inflationary change is calculated either by a producer price-type index actual cost to produce or paperboard price movements.
In summary we recover our input cost inflation.
And due to volatility inflation rates are increasing there may be a lag before full recovery but the lag will resolve itself over a 9-month period.
As a reminder input costs in our business is generally defined as fiber chemicals energy and third-party purchased paper or paperboard that are used in our manufacturing process.
For the final comment on pricing let's look at 1 of our contract resets.
We expect pricing to continue to be favorable throughout the remainder of the year with Q2 pricing better than Q1.
Now staying on Slide 11 let's turn to value the net.
We see that we are off $32 million for the quarter.
As David described volumes were materially impacted by the weather disruptions and also by lagging demand in certain folding cartons and markets.
If we look at industry data from the Paperboard Packaging Council we saw that overall folding-carton volumes were down 3.2% in the quarter.
Considering the weather issues our volume decrease is in line with the industry figures.
Just the conclude the side -- this slide let's talk about sales by segment.
Paperboard Packaging net sales were down a modest 1.2% as pricing essentially offset adverse weather and lagging demand.
In Flexible Packaging sales we had an increase of 3.6% and we were able to recover paper and resin cost increases.
Volumes continued to lag in the industrial and construction sectors.
Now turning to Page 12 in the deck.
We see the slight decrease in EBITDA is the result of the following: $24 million of favorable price $6 million of unfavorable volume and mix about $36 million of input cost inflation $23 million of performance improvements and $7 million of other which was principally tied to a higher long term stock and state incentives.
I've already briefed you on the drivers of price and volume so we'll turn to input cost inflation.
In the quarter we experienced most of our year-over-year inflation in third-party purchased paperboard and bag paper secondary fiber chemicals inks and freight.
David provided details across trends on our key commodity inputs.
I'll concentrate on how to interpret the rather large dollar increase the $36 million that we saw in Q1.
A data point that is helpful when thinking about Q1 inflation is that we benefited from deflation in Q1 2010 and as a result incurred no inflation in that quarter.
For the entire year of 2010 we incurred a $107 million of inflation.
80% was incurred in the second half of the year.
A substantial portion of what you see in this year's Q1 inflation number is a continuation of the commodity cost levels we experienced during the second half of 2010.
Bottom line is that due to aberrations in the prior year comps we do not feel that Q1 inflation is a good indicator of year-over-year inflation levels expected to be incurred in the remaining quarters of 2011.
As such if you adjust Q1 inflation of $36 million for last year's deflation swings the increase is estimated to be in the $25 million range.
Now let's move to performance.
Performance is generated based on continuous improvement and other performance initiatives and provided a $23 million benefit in the quarter.
This keeps us on target for the $80 million of year-over-year benefit we expect.
The largest contributions came from our mills and our paperboard converting operations.
The mills produced approximately 4 000 more tons in the quarter while the converting operations continued to benefit from consolidation and optimization.
Exchange and other was a negative $7 million impact the largest driver of which was higher long-term incentive compensation expense based on the increase in our share price during the quarter which rose 39% to $5.06.
Movement in our share price up and down will influence this number going forward.
Now turning to cash flow debt and liquidity on Page 13.
Net provided by operations was $6.1 million compared to a use of $25.2 million in the first quarter of 2010.
Due to the seasonality of our business working capital normally increases in the first quarter and did so again this year.
However net working capital as defined by receivables plus inventory less payables actually fell by nearly $15 million as compared to last year.
As in the prior years we continue to actively manage working capital.
Capital expenditures in the quarter were $36.8 million as compared to $18.2 million last year and our full-year capital expenditure target remains unchanged.
Macon bio-mass and Perry Georgia converting expansion projects are both tracking well as planned.
Liquidity remains strong with no cash borrowings under our $400 million revolver and $109 million of cash on the balance sheet.
The net proceeds of our recent offering will be used to purchase the assets of Sierra Pacific with the remaining approximately $130 million being used to pay down debt.
And now moving to Slide 14 I'll summarize the guidance.
As a result of the equity offering we are improving our guidance on net leverage ratio to the 3.5x range by year end.
We also have updated several other components of our guidance and I'll just quickly run through them.
Capital expenditures will remain in the $170 million to $190 million range.
Cash pension contributions will be between $45 million and $70 million.
Pension expense of around $27 million depreciation and amortization at $280 million range interest expense of $145 million to $155 million and finally as we've said before net debt reduction from operations in the $200 million to $200 million (sic) [$220 million] range.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Hey Dan just to clarify on your pricing structure commentary the 9-month lag is on a rolling basis correct? And so by the end of the third quarter of 2011 you should be cycling through pricing from early '11 is that the right way to think about it? That's correct.
The 1 other item that factors with that is terms of when it rolls and normally we have a heavily concentration rolling at the end of the first quarter than we do at the end of the year.
Okay.
And the 9-month lag you referred to how much of the Paperboard Packaging portfolio does that encompass? Is that 80% 90%? What I would say is I think what we've said is the 9-month is sort of the arbitrage between those that are 12-month and those that are immediate.
So I would think across the paperboard space 9-month is on average about when we would see a paperboard across the entire space.
Okay.
And then the cost savings from Cincinnati was that part of the $80 million-plus in productivity that you gave us initially for '11 in terms of guidance? It was.
Okay.
And can you just quantify that number just specific to Cincinnati ? We really don't quantify that kind of individual stuff for a whole bunch of legal reasons in the process.
But rest assured that the guidance for the $80 million includes the shutdown of that facility.
So what we're saying is you're going to get some benefit in 2011.
You're going to get most of the benefits in 2012 because a lot of the benefits in 2011 offset the costs.
So it wouldn't be if that's exactly right.
When you shut it down you look at severance and you look at the shutdown cost they tick -- when you do it in the middle of the year you tend to get about balances where you are.
And just 2 final questions if I could.
First on DNA I think initially you said $285 million to $305 million when you gave guidance on your 4Q conference call.
Now it looks like $285 million.
What's behind the revision towards the lower end? We just got more specific as we've already had a quarter of activity in the year.
We generally start the year out with broader ranges and as we see actual results we tighten up.
Okay.
And just finally on Sierra Pacific it seems like a very nice fit for you but it does have a fair amount of expense like it has a fair amount of exposure towards beer which has been pretty weak through the course of the recession.
How did EBITDA track for this company over the last 3 years? Well we haven't given individual results for that.
But let me see -- remember that the only portion of beer business they’re in is the craft beer segment which has been growing about 10% a year over the last 3 years.
So what I would tell you is their beer business is – they’re in the space of beer that you want to be.
And in fact right now if the recovery continues you're going to see premium and we've already seen in the large brands premium come back in that bottle 6 pack in models and that's exactly what we're seeing in that business.
Got you that's helpful.
Thank you so much.
Your next question comes from the line of Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
I just want to clarify on the inflation side you're kind of talking about $25 million ex of deflation for the first quarter.
So it is right to think of that $25 million as the right run rate for 2Q and then the comps space will get easier from there in the second half or all else equal at this point? I'm not in a position to predict the inflation but I can tell you that if you take out the impact of the deflation we estimate it's in a $25 million range and we've applied a lot of math to get that number.
If you look at the comps going forward like I said 80% of our inflation in 2010 occurred in the second half of the year so if you take that $107 million number you got 80% in the second half and you can see the 20% of that number occurred in the second quarter.
So our comps in terms of inflation will get easier as we move through the year.
I think the other thing Phil as Dan said 50% of that inflation in the first half in input inflation materials was really an externally purchased board right? So if you sort of think about the price deltas that we dealt with with things like SBS and kraft board bag paper in the first quarter SBS was like $170 to $180 ton delta quarter-on-quarter but there's not been an SBS price increase announced since then and our projections right now is that there's not likely to be SBS increases based on the market.
And so as you move to the second half of the year your delta on what we will pay versus what we paid last year drops down significantly so you start to see a different comp ratio.
I think the inflation for us is going to be really 2 areas: it's how you feel about OCC and how you feel about what oil is going to do.
Right now not so much on the freight side but oil-based chemicals.
And so whatever projections there are on those two probably drive the inflationary change for us.
As you know OCC has been right now actually pretty stable.
But our projections for the end of the year is it will go up which just remains to be safe.
Got it.
Okay that's very helpful.
The second question would just be kind of on the productivity front obviously making very good progress there.
Can you just give us some thoughts longer term beyond 2011 how you're thinking about it? I mean do you -- I'm not trying to pinpoint $80 million or anything like that but do you see continued productivity increases 2012 2013 that we can kind of model in from here or how are you thinking about that? Well we've been averaging if you forget the synergies that were associated with Altivity deal and look at those two standalone companies historically.
On a combined basis those two companies over a long period of time were averaging somewhere in that $70 million a year of cost take out on a standalone basis.
So we had a ramp-up in the last couple of years because clearly we had $150 million of synergies or so and so for whatever the numbers were right where we expect on a go forward basis is a more normalized level and we would expect to see around sort of in that $60 million to $80 million cost take out for the foreseeable future.
Now we've also made some pretty significant capital investments as we mentioned the bio-mass project comes up in 2013.
So I think your point was what do you think about '12 '13 and '14? Well that bio-mass project in of  itself is going to have a pretty significant contribution to cost take out if you will energy component cost take out.
So I'm pretty comfortable with where we are over that 3- or 4-year timeframe that you asked about.
So should I think of the biomass is incremental to the 60-80 or is part of the $60 million to $80 million? It's part of -- I would think all of our continuous improvement including those of comment as -- to be a part of that $60 million to $80 million for the take out.
I mean that's where it's going to come.
It's going to come from using less energy less fiber and less water and those are the kind of investments predominantly we're making now.
Are we going to shutdown the Cincinnati facility? I'd like to tell you that over the next three years we won't shutdown any additional carton facilities but as we become more efficient and some cartons facilities become less effective or we make small acquisitions to make it necessary we'll certainly continue to optimize our cost base on a go-forward basis.
So if you look at my dashboard going forward and would sort of say what kind of numbers do I think sort of that $60 million to $80 million feels like the right sort of cost take out for Graphic Packaging in next 3 years or so annually.
Okay.
Excellent.
Very helpful.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America.
Good morning.
I wanted to piggyback on the productivity question maybe one last time.
The extent that you have your laundry list of products that you've been considering pretty much anything that you would have looked at implementing for this year is baked into the $80 million or so.
And so the way we should think about is if there's any upside as the year progresses or a downside for that matter it's really truly predicate on what kind of volume throughput and its effect on productivity would be.
Would that be a fair assessment? If not how would you characterize it? So what I would say is that we are going to have a number of countermeasure opportunities within our business.
What I would do and what I'm really hedging more anything else George is to say that I don't know what inflation I'm going to see.
I think this $80 million makes a whole lot of sense.
Are there incremental opportunities for evaluating the business? Of course there are.
Do I believe there's going to be incremental inflation that I don't know about? I'd be a fool to suggest otherwise because that's not been the history with what's going on globally.
So what I would say is that I believe the net sort of increase where we got the -- the $80 million feel is about right.
It doesn't mean there won't be different projects in the process between now and the end of the year.
It's just means that I think when all nets out that's about where you end up.
Okay.
And maybe one last question on the last question.
As you're projecting out new productivity projects what's the lead time on them Dave? Typically I know this year's activity did it start a year ago in terms of the when they decided to go ahead with it? What's the lead time typically on project if there is such a thing? Well there is.
Of course a lot of it depends -- I mean the bio-mass project is something we announced last year and really will be operational in the first quarter of 2013.
The said facilities that we built are on a much shorter term basis and with the acquisition of Sierra Pacific that will give us a different footprint and we'll be looking at that quickly as well right? So it really depends upon the size and the scope.
But I would tell you with the lean sigma and policy deployment what it forces the organization to do is have a long laundry list of projects that makes sense.
Some of those restrictions and the honest answer with Graphic Packaging is one of our biggest opportunities was to pay down debt because as highly leverage as we are we trade off a little bit -- every time I look at a new capital projects that takes our cost reduction I have to hold it up against paying down debt because that really ends up being the most leverage in for Graphic Packaging.
Now as you -- if you we sort of do what we expect to do in terms of debt reduction as you go out for the end of that 3 year what we call LRP a long range planning more of that capital money is probably going to go towards cost reduction of the mills and the converting plants because at some point in time paying down additional debt becomes not as leveraging as some of the capital projects that we've just decided not to pursue at this point in time.
So when I look at my base and realize I’ve got $3.6 billion to $3.7 billion worth of cost in my business it's not a huge huge stretch to believe we can take 1.5% to 2% out a year it's not even world class.
It's just that we have chosen some things that we put off because honestly for Graphic Packaging one of the best things we could do over 2008 '09 and '10 was use the cash for debt reduction and that's what we've been doing.
That pendulum will change as we head into '12 and '13.
Thanks for the thought process on that Dave it was very helpful.
I guess 2 end-market questions if you will.
One the CMI numbers for the first quarter were a little bit off I think they were down 2% or so you mentioned that beer's doing well.
How did you see that involve within your business if you can comment at all in that? And on the new products side how would you evaluate this year's level of new product activity in the types of packages your customers are now looking at well to say a year or two ago? So here's a really good question.
What I would say is that when you look at CMI numbers you're looking at total consumption.
I only care about take-home right? So on premise beer for example or even on premise soft drink that's consumed while it's -- I'm a consumer as well and I can go to a bar too -- from a business standpoint I care more say about what people are doing at home.
That sector of the market did better in the quarter and beers than the on-premise.
How that's going to affect on a go-forward basis? I don't know.
Traditionally George what happens is that if the oil price continues to be $4 gas people will stay closer to home that generally generally benefits our business remains to be seen.
The other question was around -- yes it's been a lot more on substitution.
I think we talked about the fact that in SUS alone within the last 2 years we probably substitute it 50 000 to 60 000 tons of board from other substrates in terms of corrugated or other even plastics in some cases for SUS board.
That predominantly -- so lighter caliber is downgrading or down-calibering if you will our customers trying to get smaller boxes smaller grades and replacing alternates and that has been a much bigger driver of our new product activity that historically has been the case.
So less really new stuff and more how do we make -- we use the solid fiber stuff to take cost out of our supply chain.
And with corn sugar grain is going up I suspect that trend is not going to change.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Stivaletti with Goldman Sachs.
I just had a couple little follow-up on the cost inflation front.
So I was just curious if you could tell us of that $35.5 million year-over-year cost inflation.
What portion of that roughly was the chemicals? Hold on just a second.
I know I have it if you could just give me a second here to figure it out.
So chemicals was about what? $2 million or something like that.
Our chemicals was about $2 million.
Majority of it -- so if you think about it let me just -- $30 million was what you would call input inflation the other $5 million to $6 million were just labor and benefit cost.
Right Dan? It's sort of the way it works out.
Right.
And then freight is just about $5 million.
So that's sort of the way it broke out.
OCC was $4 million or so $4 million or $5 million and most of it was board.
$15 million half of it over half of it or I'm sorry roughly half of that was just buying a multi-wall bag paper in SBS and then you got the chemicals break down the process.
So that's why I’m saying when we look on a go-forward basis we're not as exposed as we are to just pure chemicals we care about it but it's really OCC we buy or use.
We use 850 000 tons a year roughly 900 000 tons of OCC.
So that's really a more leveraging thing for us right? Yes.
And Joe just to make sure those numbers tie out for you the chemicals that David cited does not include instant coatings.
So if you put that on top of us you'll get our number pretty close.
Okay.
And then just -- I don't know if you have this number handy but can you talk about that delta on a sequential basis from a cost perspective going from Q4 to Q1? I don't know that we've broken it out directly.
We'll have to get back to you on that.
I don't know that we have it -- Dan's looking at it.
I'm looking at it here and if you look at it the areas that are affecting us are really the oil-based areas and you're talking about latex you're talking about resin you're talking about fuel.
So on a directional basis the price we paid for external board in the fourth quarter was the same we've paid in the fourth -- it's just about the same we paid in the first quarter right? So if you did sequentially that element of inflation would be not very significant quarter-on-quarter if that's helpful.
So about half of that input inflation would be sort of moderated based on board pricing.
Right okay.
And then the final question that I had and still on this topic was have you talked or have you shared or will you share what you think what you're assuming full year cost inflation will be when you look at all the guidance that you've given for debt reduction and all that for the year I don't know if you're...
Yes.
We haven't given that out.
I mean the only guidance we really predominantly is sort of the where the cash flow comes from pension CapEx we really haven't gotten into it.
And look at the end of the day no matter what I would say Joe you know it would be wrong.
Because as I sit here today I have no idea.
I'm looking at Goldman's forecast.
Over the last two weeks oil is going to be $200 now it's going to be $110.
I've got JPMorgan with a different look at that as well.
I mean the reality is that it's very difficult for me you to sort of -- and I suspect if I asked on this call the range on OCC pricing would be interesting.
But difficult for us just to give you a hard number on right? Sure.
Yes.
Okay thanks a lot.
Your next question comes from the line of Philip Ng.
[Jefferies &amp; Company] Inc.</strong> Just a quick question from a demand perspective.
Looks like February was obviously weak it sounds like it normalized in March whereas volumes is up year-over-year in March? Yes.
Inc.</strong> And how should we be thinking about volumes at least on the Paperboard's side for the rest of the year like the [indiscernible] digits? What I would like -- what we're looking at is to assume that volume is relatively flat for the year.
I'd love to see some of the trends continue but if consumer continues to move discretionary income from whatever they're buying to just putting gas in the tank what I would say is the historical look on that is it impacts volume on every sort of consumer staple and we would say the same thing.
Inc.</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And in terms of pricing and obviously it accelerated in Q1 from Q4 how should we be thinking about 3Q and 4Q? I know you've mentioned 2Q was going to accelerate.
That's right.
We've looked at the timing of when our contracts reset and the guidance we've giving right now is that Q2 will be higher than Q1.
The other thing that's going to impact pricing favorably is that we've announced price increases before and when you bake those into the formula you can very clearly see that Q3 should be a good quarter in terms of pricing as well.
Inc.</strong> So Q3 should improve sequentially and you guys obviously announced some surcharges as well right? That's right.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Alright thank you guys.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Mark Kaufman with Rafferty Capital.
LLC</strong> I'm just had a quick question really about the second quarter.
What will the charge before the equity offering? And is there a price that you're buying the stock back from the Coors Trust? Well the first question in terms of the equity offering that needs to be paid it was in the [indiscernible] around $10 million 4.5%.
LLC</strong> That would be a charge in the quarter.
Yes it goes against equity so it won't be a charge in the quarter.
No.
We'll have certain other fees but it won't be the big hit like the $10 million.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then of course we're trading at the same price of our neutral.
They were neutral to the deal.
LLC</strong> [indiscernible] Yes and they pay their own fees.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
Your next question comes from the line of Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Yes I just want to ask one more question.
Just kind of around productivity and inflation.
When you talked about the inflation side you obviously didn't mention labor.
So is this kind of right to think about labor as a -- somewhat of a negative offset the standard kind of labor inflation year-over-year to that $60 million to $80 million in productivity that you're thinking about is that how you look at it? Well I think that's exactly what we look at.
I think we said in the first quarter labor was around $5 million labor and benefits so all labor and all benefits those kind of settlements right around $5 million on the quarter.
So you can assume that our inflationary rate on a year for labor and benefits is going to be right around that around $18 million to $20 million or something like that.
So the way our model usually works is on a high-level basis is price resets go to recover inflation from the previous year productivity needs to cover our cost of labor and benefits and then it exceeds that number so that's how the margins get improved and that's exactly really what we've seen since the acquisition of Altivity.
And I think our margins are up 300 to 350 basis points it’s really that model.
Inflation recovering -- pricing recovery inflation productivity outstripping the costs of doing business margins improving.
Okay excellent.
That's it.
I will now turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
Well we thank everybody for listening on the call and we'll talk to you again at the end of second quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Chastity and I will be your conference operator.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Graphic Packaging Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder ladies and gentlemen this conference is being recorded today Thursday July 28 2011.
Thank you.
I would now like to introduce Brad Ankerholz Vice President and Treasurer.
Mr.
Ankerholz you may begin your conference.
Thank you Chastity and good morning to everybody.
And thanks dialing into our Second Quarter Graphic Packaging Holding Company Conference Call.
Commenting on results this morning are David Scheible the company's President and CEO; and Dan Blount our Senior Vice President and CFO.
To help you follow along with the today's call we have provided a slide presentation which can be accessed by clicking on the Q2 Earnings Webcast link on our Investor Relations section of our website which is graphicpkg.com.
I would like to remind everyone that statements of our expectations in this call constitute forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements including but not limited to statements relating to recovery of raw material inflation costs consumer demand and pricing trends capital expenditures cash pension contributions and pension expense depreciation and amortization interest expense debt and leverage reduction performance improvements cost reduction initiatives including those related to Sierra Pacific acquisition and the closure of facilities are based on currently available information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company’s present expectations.
These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to the company’s substantial amount of debt inflation of and volatility in raw materials and energy costs cutbacks in consumer spending that could affect demand for the company's products continuing pressure for low cost products and the company's ability to implement its business strategies including productivity initiatives and cost reduction plans.
Undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements as such statements speak only as of the date on which they are made and the company undertakes no obligation to update such statements.
Additional information regarding these and other risks is contained in the company’s periodic filings with the SEC.
David I'll turn it over to you now.
Thanks Brad.
We're pleased with our second quarter results and our ability to drive significant improvement in earnings in what continues to be a challenging operating environment.
Adjusted earnings per share more than doubled to $0.09 with improved EBITDA and lower cash interest cost.
Net cash from operations was $118 million year-to-date.
Overall volume across our end markets and the paperboard industry remains under pressure particularly in May as near record high gas prices and continued high blue-collar unemployment hurt consumer spending in the middle of the quarter.
Our business performed in line with expectations despite the challenging economic environment.
Sales increased 4.3% as a result of higher pricing from our contract reset mechanisms and board price increases as we recovered input cost inflation from the second half of 2010.
This combined with performance improvements and cost reductions more than offset recent inflationary pressures and led to improved margins.
Our strategy remains focused on driving cash flows to pay down debt and we managed converting downtime in inventories in the quarter to do exactly that.
As a result we remain comfortable with our full-year net debt reduction from operations target of $200 million to $220 million.
Debt reduction remains a key objective for us but we are continuing to make strategic investments in the business as well.
We made significant progress this quarter at our previously announced Perry Georgia carton facility expansion.
This $30 million dollar expansion includes a new 67-inch high-speed flexo press new cutters and state-of-the-art inline gluers to make 6-pack basket carts for our beverage business.
Additionally we will capitalize on its proximity to the Macon Georgia CUK mill to create a very low cost supply chain.
This expansion will be online in Q3 and when completed we will convert almost 275 000 tons of paperboard in this facility.
We remain on schedule with our $80 million biomass project in the Macon mill.
This project will significantly reduce the mill's energy cost and eliminate dependency on fossil fuel alternatives.
We will be in a position in 2013 to start green power back to the grid.
Finally we closed the Sierra Pacific acquisition on April 29.
I'm pleased to report the integration is on plan and we continue to target initial synergies at the upper end of our $2 million to $4 million guidance.
Craft beer remains one of the strongest elements of the beer market and through the Sierra Pacific acquisition we are well positioned to capture sales in this important sector.
The acquisition provided us with a strategic location to service both our beverage and consumer products' costumers on the West Cost by leveraging the proximity of our Santa Clara California recycle board mill.
Looking a little bit at our second quarter results from Paperboard our mills had another strong quarter performing above plan due to improved initiatives in productivity energy and fixed cost reduction.
Tons per day increased nearly 1% and we generated over $8 million in cost savings from our continuous improvement efforts at the mills.
Volume in our folding carton segment decreased about 2.9% in the quarter.
This was slightly better than the broader market which was down approximately 4% according to Paperboard Packaging Council.
A very wet and cold spring high gasoline prices rising food and commodity costs and continued high unemployment negatively impacted demand for consumer goods and as a result folding cartons.
The U.S.
consumer is facing some difficult budgetary decisions and that is translating to lower volume even in core staples.
PPC reported industry shipments declining approximately 3% in April 7% in May and 2% in June.
May was really the toughest month of the quarter for us as well but volumes began to pick up in June.
We have seen that trend continue in July.
Honestly I have sort of given up forecasting demand trends at this point in time.
Some of the particularly hard-hit food categories over the past 3 months according to ACNielsen were areas that we consider pantry staples.
Frozen pizza was down about 7%.
Even dry cereal was down 4% and dry baking mixes down about 6%.
Trends in the canned beverage markets were down the second quarter as well.
The canned beer volumes across the industry remains somewhat sluggish throughout the quarter down approximately 2% according to the Can Manufacturers Institute.
Canned soft drink volumes across the industry were down nearly 7% for the quarter but much of this negative year-on-year comparison is due to the spike in volume last year with the Wal-Mart promotion.
This special promotion was not renewed this summer and we have seen a more normalized volume trend in that space.
Our total beer business outperformed the industry benefiting from continued strength in the craft beer market and has increased share with a few customers.
Trends in our international beverage business remained positive in the second quarter.
Strong adaptation of multipack containers in China continues to be a positive driver for new machine placements in this market.
Also on a positive note favorable product and customer mix has helped to mitigate the impact of softer demand.
In particular efforts to further integrate our mill production are allowing us to substitute open market board sales with some higher value folding carton sales improving the mix.
Turning to our Flexible Packaging business the operating environment is even more challenging than in Paperboard with the weak construction and housing markets as a base.
It's pretty clear that trends in these end use segments may not improve for some time.
Quarter-over-quarter volumes in our Flexible Packaging segment improved modestly on a sequential basis but were down nearly 4% versus the prior year quarter.
Higher pricing from the recovery of paper and resin more than offset the volume decline and drove sales increase of about 3% over the prior year period.
We expect additional price increases as we move into the second half of the year with contractual recovery but I believe we still will be fighting demand issues the rest of 2011 in this space.
Despite the difficult retail environment our customers continue to introduce new product offering to drive sales and reduce cost.
Our new product sales grew over 10% compared to the second quarter of 2010 and we were successful in new machine placements globally.
Our microwave business had a strong second quarter of commercialized launches in North America and abroad.
ConAgra launched a 16-ounce Marie Callender pot pie utilizing our microwave susceptibles which reduces cook time by nearly 30%.
We continue to see strong interest in our patented line of microwave products and believe this technology has significant growth potential.
Internationally our susceptor disks were recently adopted by a French producer of chilled pizza slices and a Japanese premium microwaveable fish offering by Tokankojo [ph].
Our Barrier Packaging portfolio continues to grow with our customer adoption of new and patented structures to create lower cost and increase consumer convenience.
CNA [ph] Sugar is utilizing our woven polypropylene structure.
This unique package uses a paper laminated outside to deliver the same print quality as a coded paper structure with higher structural integrity.
The Fresh Fish First [ph] service line grew with the launch of a take-out container produced with an inside barrier coating for Panda Express.
Bunzl Distribution a St.
Louis Missouri based supplier of paper and food packaging supplies became the first customer to commercialize our DesignerWare technology.
They will use DesignerWare in a tray format for use in their Amtrak food service business.
The tray provides improved branding capabilities and utilizes 47% less plastic than a similarly sized CPET tray.
Let's talk about pricing inflation.
Clearly in this environment pricing inflation are our core critical metrics.
We saw a significant increase in pricing both on a year-over-year basis and a sequential basis in the quarter.
Pricing increased $36 million in the second quarter compared to a $24 million increase in the first quarter.
This was driven by the pricing reset mechanisms in our contracts that adjust prices up or down based on changes in inflationary costs on approximately a 9-month lag.
We expect pricing to remain positive throughout the remainder of 2011.
Total cost inflation was nearly $44 million for the quarter and about 1/3 of that was due to higher priced externally purchased board and paper.
Our customer contracts allow for relatively quick recovery of increases in externally purchased board and we expect significant recovery of these prices in the remainder of 2011.
Other input costs that saw increases on a year-over-year basis in the quarter included secondary fiber chemicals particularly TiO2 latexes and modestly freight.
Dan will discuss the individual components of inflation in more detail during his call.
In the second quarter we implemented price increases of $45 per ton for CUK and $40 for CRB.
When comparing second quarter 2011 -- again second quarter 2010 PPW reports that average transaction prices were $165 per ton higher for CUK and roughly $90 per ton higher for CRB.
We expect to see further benefits from open market board pricing in upcoming quarters.
Our outlook for 2011 remains unchanged.
We continue to target net reduction of $200 million to $220 million from operations.
Pricing should remain positive through the end of the year.
We are comfortable with our cost reduction initiatives to fully realize savings of approximately $80 million.
Volumes across the folding carton sector return to more normalized levels in June and July and we expect new product launches some market share gains international expansion to accelerate the business in the second half of the year.
With that I'll turn the call over to Dan for a more detailed discussion of our financial results.
Thanks David and good morning everyone.
David covered the operational highlights of the quarter.
I'll focus on financial results.
My comments follow the flow of our posted presentation.
For those of you following along I'm picking up with Page 9.
Overall second quarter performance was in line with our expectations and we continued to track to the full-year guidance we highlighted last quarter.
Most notably we are forecasting total net debt reduction to be in the $350 million to $370 million range.
This range includes the $150 million debt reduction that resulted from the follow-on equity offering.
Starting with our financial highlights we see continuation of positive performance trends.
Revenues driven by price increases across all business segments increased 4.3%.
Adjusted net income for the second quarter improved 135% to $34.6 million from $14.7 million a year ago.
This results in an improvement of $0.05 per share.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter grew to $150 million versus $145 million in the prior year.
Now please note that the adjustments to net income and EBITDA that I just referenced exclude nonrecurring charges related to acquisitions and early extinguishment of debt.
There are no other adjustments.
This morning's earnings release includes a detailed reconciliation of the adjustments.
When I refer to financial measures this morning I am referring to measures including these adjustments.
Now moving to net income.
We see a sizable increase driven by 3 categories: First an $8.6 million increase in operating income as price improved and we continued to drive cost reduction; second an $8.4 million or nearly 19% decrease in interest expense as our debt levels continue to decline and we benefited from last year's bond refinancing that lowered our effective interest rate; and lastly lower income tax expense of $2.8 million as we utilized the NOL and reduced other tax charges.
Moving to revenue on Slide 10.
We see the net sales grew by $44 million or 4.3%.
As expected price benefited the quarter by adding nearly $36 million to the top line.
The improvement was principally driven by contractual inflation recovery on our converted products coupled with higher open market board pricing.
As we have discussed previously our customers supply agreements include lookback inflation recovery mechanisms.
As a result over the next 3 quarters we expect price recovery of current input cost inflation to continue.
We will talk more about price cost timing later when we review inflation.
Turning to volume/mix.
We saw a modest $4.3 million decline for the quarter.
Overall we are pleased with our volume performance given the challenges in our key markets that David discussed.
The majority of the volume/mix decline was in our Flexible Packaging segment where volumes continued to lag in construction end markets.
Volume/mix in our Paperboard Packaging segment was consistent with prior year levels.
Foreign exchange contributed $12.7 million to the top line as we benefited from stronger Japanese Australian and European currencies.
To summarize net sales by segment Paperboard Packaging net sales were up 4.5% principally due to higher pricing.
In Flexible Packaging volumes continued to lag in the industrial and construction sectors.
However sales increased 2.8% as we continued to recover paper and resin inflation.
Turning to Slide 11.
You see that EBITDA improved $5 million or 3.4%.
Second quarter EBITDA does include a couple special charges that I would like to walk you through.
First we recorded $1.2 million of an estimated total $2 million charge related to closing the Cincinnati converting operation.
We expect to incur the remainder of the shutdown charge in the third quarter.
As you will recall we announced the closing of this facility earlier this year.
Benefits from the closing include moving production to more efficient plants reducing overhead and lowering working capital levels.
Second we incurred $6 million of charges as we took downtime in several converting plants to reduce inventory levels.
We came into the quarter with more inventory than was needed due to adverse weather and lagging demand experienced in Q1.
The downtime was the appropriate action to take as it successfully reduced working capital levels and allowed us to maximize cash generation in the quarter.
Based on our forecast of business volume we do not expect further market-related downtime in our converting plants for the rest of the year.
However if business conditions dictate we will take downtime to properly manage working capital and maximize cash flow.
It is important to note however that no downtime was taken or is anticipated in our paper mills.
The risk of mill downtime is substantially mitigated as we are a net purchaser of board and demand for internally produced product is significantly greater than production capacity.
Looking at Q2 operating performance excluding the impact of the special charges we see that $36 million of improved pricing and $19 million of performance improvement offset $44 million of inflation.
Since our contractual inflation recovery like I said is based on lookback calculations the timing of price increases to recover input cost inflation is only matched when the inflation rate is consistent from year to year.
Since 2011's inflation rate is above 2010's level additional recovery of 2011 input cost inflation will occur in 2012.
Overall year-to-date commodity inflation has averaged just above 5% with the main drivers being the well-publicized double-digit increases for purchased paper resin and secondary fiber.
Additionally we have seen recent significant increases in the cost of chief [ph] coatings such as titanium dioxide latex and starch.
While inflation is difficult to forecast we expect inflation headwinds to continue for the remainder of the year and price recovery to continue into 2012.
Moving to performance.
Our continuous improvement and other performance initiatives delivered a $19 million benefit in the quarter.
The largest contributions came from our mills and our paper board converting operations.
In the mills capital investment and process improvement continued to drive improvement in operating efficiency waste reduction and energy usage.
As a result of throughput improvement the mills produced nearly 6 000 more tons in this quarter.
In the converting plants we continue to optimize manufacturing by consolidating production into our most productive facilities and investing in more efficient assets.
The plant closings in Ohio and Arkansas we previously announced are nearly complete and we expect to see cost reduction benefits from these actions beginning next quarter.
We are clearly on track to achieve the $80 million performance improvement target we previously communicated.
Now let's turn to cash flow debt and liquidity on Slide 12.
As a result of improved operating performance and reduced cash interest cost year-to-date net cash provided by operations improved $20 million over the prior year to $117.6 million.
Year-to-date capital spending at $70.8 million is in line with our expectations and our full year capital expenditure target remains unchanged.
As a reminder 2011 capital spending is expected to be approximately $50 million greater than 2010.
We are making incremental investments to place new packaging machines at customer locations in Asia Europe and North America.
The greatest growth is expected to be in Asia.
These machine placements not only drive volume growth but produce lease revenue as well.
Additionally we are investing in 2 high-return projects Macon biomass for low-cost energy generation and Perry Georgia converting plant expansion to consolidate production from closed facilities.
Net debt has been reduced by $190 million year-to-date $150 million from the equity offering and $40 million from operating cash flows.
Our net leverage ratio has improved to 3.9x and we remain clearly on track to further reduce debt by an additional $160 million to $180 million by year end.
Our liquidity remains strong with no cash borrowings under our $400 million revolver and $191 million of cash on the balance sheet.
Please note that a portion of this cash will be used to fully retire the $73 million principal amount outstanding under our 9 1/2% subordinated notes due 2013.
The call of these notes was issued this month and will become effective on August 15.
And as you probably saw our continued focus on leverage reduction has been positively noted by credit rating agencies with both S&amp;P and Moody upgrading our credit ratings.
S&amp;P gave us a one-notch ratings increase to BB with a positive outlook while Moody's increased our rating from B1 to BA3 with a stable outlook.
The improved ratings along with the continued reduction in debt levels provide Graphic Packaging with a stronger credit profile as we work to refinance our senior secured debt over the next few months.
And finally moving to Slide 13 I will summarize our guidance for 2011.
As a result of the equity offering and further debt reduction expected this year our net leverage ratio should end the year below 3.5x.
We also have updated several other components of our guidance from last quarter's call.
Capital expenditures will be in the $170 million range.
Cash pension contributions will be between $50 million and $70 million.
Our pension expense runs around $27 million depreciation and amortization in the $285 million range interest expense of $145 million to $155 million and net debt reduction from operations in the $200 million to $220 million range.
And with that I will turn the call back to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Baird.
David encouraging 3Q commentary at least so far in July.
Can you remind us how relevant July is for the quarter typically for 3Q? And then also which end markets are showing improvement? Well as I said in my prepared comments I've sort of gotten out of the forecasting business from that process.
July August and September I don't know that one is more relevant than the other.
You've got different holidays in the process.
Third quarter tends to be back to school and beverage markets and so they tend to be our strongest overall quarter of the 4 quarters from a sales standpoint.
And right now what I would say is we're seeing good -- better trends in food beverages improved slightly.
So we remain upbeat about the quarter but it's a long way to go.
Okay and then just finally looking at our data set CUK versus SUS I think this is the narrowest price spread since July '08.
Is that something to be concerned about from a substitution standpoint? Well the substitution -- I mean I'm sorry the separation rate is still pretty high based on a historical basis.
We're still significantly below traditionally.
And historically our separation between SUS and CRB has really averaged around $35 a ton and we're certainly not within $35 a ton of SUS pricing at this point.
Our next question and comes from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> I'm just trying to get a better handle on pricing and inflation how I should be thinking about it going forward.
If I look at the run rate for pricing it looks certainly picked up at the recent $6 million run rate for 2Q.
Should we expect it's later [ph] higher over the course of the year or is this pretty much where I should be thinking going forward? I think what you need to think about if you look at our pricing that were based on lookback calculations.
You just saw we had input cost inflation of about $100 million in 2010.
And I think you can use that as your guide into how much inflation we should recover in pricing in 2011.
Inc.</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then in terms of inflation I think the last time we chatted on the call I mean with comps being a little more easier I guess because you saw a pretty sizable inflation.
The thought process was for the trend to come down a bit on a year-on-year basis.
But certainly it does look like things picked up a bit.
Is that $44 million run rate how we should be thinking about it going forward? Or how should I be thinking about that? Well I think you have to sort look on our inflation on the waterfalls that we gave you you sort of have to look at the arbitrage between price inflation and performance right? Because performance includes not only performance in the mill but it includes purchasing improvements and those kinds of things.
So I think you have to look at all 3 of those.
So if you look at all 3 of those arbitrages what I would say is we would continue to expect to see modest improvement in our margins between a combination of pricing inflation we have to do and performance for the rest of the year.
The primary drivers of inflation are going to be OCC and chemicals.
I think the external board prices which I think were something like 40% of our input inflation this quarter year-on-year was really from external purchase of board.
And those are rolling off of increases from last year.
You're going to see much more modest increases in that area because there's been not very many announcements.
The TiO2 and those kinds of latex chemicals they've continued to go up year-on-year right? Inc.</strong> Okay and if I remember correctly you guys were talking about energy surcharges and freight has certainly continued to trend a bit higher.
Have you guys been able to implement that inter [ph] quarter and for the back half? Honestly I've been pretty pleasantly surprised -- or pretty pleasantly looking at freight because we have done a pretty good job in the last year actually of getting more and more of our freight passed on to our customers and so it's become less and less of an impact.
We were able to get fuel surcharges recovered in the third quarter but the more important process really was to get out of the freight business.
And over a number of our customers we're simply exiting the external freight business.
The internal freight is predominantly going to be impacted by virtue of the plant consolidations.
As Dan said by consolidating our Cincinnati facility we move 80 000 or 90 000 tons of board into that facility that will now be made directly in the converting plant that's on-site with the mill.
So the internal freight will essentially evaporate because there is no freight.
So as I go forward on freight I feel better about our projections on freight even though of course as you say there are fuel surcharges in freight coming additional.
Our next question comes from the line of Ian Zaffino with Oppenheimer.
The $19 million you talked about in cost savings how much of that can you -- as you look into let's just say 2012 because I know you gave a number for this year.
If you look into 2012 the $19 million how much of that is really repeatable on a quarterly basis next year? And how much is -- or can we look at kind of $19 million a quarter and kind of model that for the next 6 quarters or so? Well that may be a bridge too far for me to sort of figure out the modeling process.
But here's what I would tell you is that we've averaged somewhere around $70 million worth of performance reductions really since the -- if you net out synergies from the Altivity merger.
We've made it as Dan said we've made significant investments in Perry and in Macon.
And those things will start to roll through next year because the facilities.
I mean we don't even start the Perry facility until late part of Q3.
So as I am looking forward I believe $70 million a year of sort of performance overall performance reductions sort of targets is a good target for us.
And that's sort of our internal numbers.
We've given that guidance and this year it looks to be that we're going to be within that area -- within that range.
And just to add to that Ian the Macon biomass.
I mean that doesn't come online until 2013.
So we're putting in an investment today and the return on that is very significant.
And that will be second half of '13.
Or you'll see some of it but most of it will come in '14 onward.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Stivaletti with Goldman Sachs.
The only question I have left was just wondering if you could talk a little bit about more your Sierra Pacific acquisition how that's going and if you could tell us what the EBITDA contribution from that business was in the quarter.
Well there's 2 separate questions.
The one Joe is that the answer is it's been a good acquisition for us already.
The craft beers sector in the United States in the quarter was up almost 15%.
And Sierra Pacific has the largest share of that craft beer sector.
So it was a positive to our overall beverage results.
We're integrating those sales and margins into our business so we aren't really breaking out.
We're not running Sierra Pacific as a standalone.
That business has got both consumer products and it has beverage and we've already sort of bifurcated that into those business units.
So we won't be reporting as you would a large acquisition.
It's a bolt-on we'll layer it in.
It will just be -- it will be rolled into the overall results.
I think Dan did report that our synergy targets were $2 million to $4 million.
What I would tell you is that we have been pleasantly surprised with what we've seen there and we're certainly going to be in the upper  end of those but again they'll be rolled back through the individual business units.
You saw more inventory because we rolled their inventory.
Some of the inflation is higher because they had inflation themselves.
So you know the reality is that you're seeing that across the board.
We'll manage that as an ongoing part of our business.
Our next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America.
I guess the first question I had taking a step back Dave as you consider your customers and what they're seeing ultimately from the consumer is your sense that over the first 6 months of the year that ultimately the consumers have been retrenching or your customers have been keeping their inventories lower than normal because they're not certain with the way things will play out in Washington and from a macroeconomic point of view? How do you see it at this juncture? It depends.
It's a combination of both.
But clearly if you look in the stores you'll see some of that less SKUs than were available a year ago right? So our customers are trying to reduce in some cases the number of offerings to be able to meet a lower consumer trend.
It doesn't mean we haven't seen some new product launches however and so -- but they're very very focused.
Promotional activity is down.
We talked about the biggest change year-on-year is the Wal-Mart promotion.
Last year during this period we were almost crazy fools trying to get fridge pack and 24 packs into the stores for the Wal-Mart promotion.
And this year we didn't see that all.
So on a comp basis it's pretty significant difference on that kind of promotional activity.
So in that case you look at the inventory flow in beverage and you look at the STRs [ph] in beer it's a pretty tight supply chain probably tighter than we've seen.
But I don't know that that's going to change which I think we're going to continue to run pretty close higher velocity through that chain because the consumer is very difficult to figure out right now.
I mean their savings rate was up unemployment for the people that we care about continues to creep up.
We spent a lot of time talking with not only our customers but the folks at Target and Wal-Mart and they're all saying "Hey it's okay but not great." Right.
Dave I know you have a pretty good light on sight on that space on history but when we go back to productivity if you're perhaps producing fewer SKUs in light of your particularly the food customer side their marketing programs over the rest of the year and it's 2012.
Can that maybe make you more productive than that $70 million average longer term since you're not breaking into your runs [ph] as often? What I would tell you is that a business like Graphic Packaging has tremendous operating leverage right? So it's just because of the way the fixed cost base is in there.
So we have clearly seen as you can see in our own numbers an acceleration in the performance element of our business.
So I do believe George there's opportunity there.
However the downside of that is that at some point in time you can't improve the business that you don't run.
So ultimately we still are dependent upon a certain amount of volume improvement to continue to bring productivity.
I've lost count of how many production facilities that we've out now since Altivity but we've got to be close to 10 or 11 facilities and we'll continue to evaluate that same issue because what happens is we get very very productive in the remaining facilities and then the ones that are on the margin we just don't operate.
And so that ends up being what squeezes out.
So that also drives our performance and I expect that it'll unfortunately be an ongoing contributor as you go into 2011 and '12 -- I'm sorry into '12 unless you see a real change in the U.S.
market.
I mean it's sort of a strange situation one I've not really seen in my -- what you have is global inflation on input costs but you have a relatively small or slow demand in your current market.
So the normal sort of drivers that you would expect to offset inflation through pricing is not really the same kind of levers that you would normally have because the inflation is driven offshore and your demand issues are onshore.
And that's sort of the arbitrage that you're seeing in the business.
And not just in my business but the businesses across the space.
So let me guess [ph] that you have to keep spending at a level that you've been spending in capital dollars to keep that productivity.
Because that's the only way that you can offset that inflation.
Otherwise you get margin compression.
Otherwise yes you run the potential.
And so large -- it's becoming clearly a space of large players right? Because you need to have enough critical mass in that space to be able to make that kind of investment that you can build a Perry.
I mean Perry's a $30 million expansion with a 67-inch flexo press.
And even I swallow hard when we made that investment.
But it's a huge cost reduction but you have to have enough critical mass and balance sheet flexibility to be able to do that to drive those kind of costs out or otherwise you end up with the margins -- you end up with a bad margin arbitrage which we're some of that on some of the smaller -- I mean we see every potential sale of carton businesses that's available Graphic Packaging sees that.
We see that book.
And clearly you see some margin compression in that space in that converting space right? Yes.
Last question I'll turn over.
Dave or Dan given what's been occurring and the potential as strange it is to think about it for the debt ceiling to not be lifted and for the U.S.
to default are you doing anything differently from a financial planning standpoint? And are there any issues that we should consider from a cost-financing standpoint based on perhaps a pickup in government rates from here? That's an interesting question George.
I mean actually we've been trying to figure it out ourselves and we've been going through advisers to help us with that question as well because we've got a pending refinancing of our bank debts because the revolver matures in May 2013.
And we look to refinance that before that revolver gets within 12 months in maturity.
So basically what we're doing is we're continuing to concentrate on what we have been doing.
It's improving our credit profile and generating as much cash out of this business without skimping on investment to reduce the debt load.
Because we think if we do those 2 things we're going to be in just really good shape in terms of refinancing this debt.
And the other thing we're doing is we're looking for the right window at which to execute the refinancing activity as well.
So if we do those 3 things I think we're going to be just fine.
And we just concentrate on the things we're good at.
The other thing is our lending is LIBOR based and we have not seen a movement in LIBOR nor are we being advised that there is a potential movement in LIBOR based on the circumstances that are happening in the U.S.
at this point.
But we'll have to wait and see.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Dave can you just talk about how you're seeing the key spot demand fundamentals for your 2 box board grades? Where are backlogs today for CRB and CUK relative to history? Where are your current utilization rates at the mills? Yes as Dan said we're a net buyer of boards so our utilization rates obviously are pretty high because we're buying those grades that you mentioned externally as well.
Our backlogs are -- they're pretty solid in both grades.
So our inventories are certainly in line in those grades and I would not -- as we head into the third quarter which is back to school and end of summer stuff I wouldn't expect a -- I would expect the backlogs just to remain pretty tight.
That's helpful.
And then you talked about your folding carton business where you have the pricing mechanism that allows you to pass through cost and that 9-month lag.
How do you feel about that pricing structure longer term in the context where it seems like we are in an accelerating inflationary environment where in that scenario that business will typically be behind the curve on passing on costs? Is there a sense of urgency to think about potentially restructuring those contracts where there's a shorter pass-through especially given the consolidation that we've seen both on the converting side and on the mill side over the last decade in the industry? So let me get this right.
The question is would I like to get my pricing faster? The answer is yes.
The fact of the matter is that if you look at where these contracts have been over the last 5 years we went from 5- to 10-year fixed-price contracts to ones that got annual lookbacks to now the contracts -- many of them are 6 months and some of them quarterly.
So if you look at the acceleration of what's happening in that structure that's been a high-priority issue for us.
But I will remind you that the guys that we're doing business with are the pretty big global players.
I mean they have their own set of options.
We are not without potential issues and substitution or other competitive threats so it is a negotiation.
It is not a jam down.
So what I would tell you is we made significant progress in reducing that cycle which is used to be closer to well over a year.
And as we move forward it'll be well inside of 9 months.
But I do not -- I would be less than honest if I told you it was going to be instantaneous price recovery for input inflation.
I just don't think that's a realistic expectation.
And that's a very helpful color.
Maybe to use a baseball analogy I mean what inning are we in from the shift where before you had these longer term 5- to 10-year contracts where there's limited ability to pass through where now you at least have these pricing mechanisms that allow you to do it within a 9-month window? Yes so 2 nights ago I went to the Braves' game and that was a 19 inning affair.
So like a baseball game what I would tell you is it's variable.
It will depend upon the end use customer.
It will depend materially on how we sit in an individual segment.
I don't think pricing or contract negotiations ever -- I mean that process is never done.
And so we've made -- what I would tell you we've made a lot of progress.
It will continue.
We will continue to have that discussion arbitrage with our customers for a long time.
At this time there are no further questions.
Are there any closing remarks? No.
We need to get back to work and make this quarter work.
Thanks very much.
Thank you for joining today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Cody and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Graphic Packaging Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] And I would like to turn the call over to Brad Ankerholz Vice President and Treasurer.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Cody.
And good morning to everybody.
Welcome to the Graphic Packaging Holding Company's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
Commenting on results this morning will be David Scheible the company's President and CEO; and Dan Blount our Senior Vice President and CFO.
To help you follow along with today's call we've provided a slide presentation which can be accessed by clicking on the Q3 earnings webcast link on the Investor Relations section of our website at graphicpkg.com.
I would like to remind everyone morning that statements of our expectations in this call constitute forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements including but not limited to statements relating to the recovery of raw material inflation costs consumer demand and pricing trends capital expenditures cash pension contributions and pension expense depreciation and amortization interest expense debt and leverage reduction performance improvements and cost reduction initiatives including the closure of facilities are based on currently available information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's present expectations.
These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to the company's substantial amount of debt inflation of and volatility in raw material and energy costs cutbacks in consumer spending that could affect the demand of the company's products continuing pressure for lower cost products and the company's ability to implement its business strategies including productivity initiatives and cost reduction plans.Undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements as such statements speak only as of the date on which they are made and the company undertakes no obligation to update such statements.
Additional information regarding these and other risks is contained in the company's periodic filings with the SEC.
David I'll turn it over to you now.
Thanks Brad.
Good morning everyone.
We're pleased with our third quarter results and our ability to continue to grow sales and earnings in what remains a very challenging operating environment.
We grew sales 3% and adjusted net income 40% in the third quarter in spite of the soft demand and significantly higher input costs.
Higher pricing stronger operating performance and cost reduction more than offset modestly lower volumes and higher input costs.
Third quarter pricing increased by $29 million and we generated $17 million net benefit from ongoing cost reduction and supply chain optimization efforts.
We are still tracking to approximately $70 million of cost reductions for this year and remain comfortable with our ability to further reduce total costs through our continuous performance improvement initiatives.
A large portion of our cost savings is being driven by significant ongoing investments we are making in the business.
Through the first 3 quarters of this year we have spent over $108 million in capital much of which was focused to streamline the business and reduce our long-term cost structure.
Last quarter I talked about the over $30 million investment in our Perry Georgia carton facility.
To further stand this state-of-the-art plant which is now capable of converting over 275 000 tons of paperboard annually.
I'm pleased to report that the new press came online in the third quarter and we have successfully transitioned volume from other higher cost facilities into the expanded Perry plant.
The integration of the Sierra Pacific acquisition our new West Coast facility is progressing well.
And we're pleased with this performance.
The new facility further optimized our manufacturing footprint by providing a strategic location in northern California to service our West Coast customers and it leverages our Santa Clara California recycled board mill.
This acquisition has reduced our cycle times lowered our transportation costs and better align volumes within geographies.
With the added flexibility of this new West Coast facility along with the delay in the recovery of our end markets we made the decision to close our La Porte Indiana web plant and consolidate the remaining volume into our northern California and our other lower-cost Midwestern facilities.
These are never easy decisions but they were necessary to balance our manufacturing footprint with the changing demands of our customer base.
We have strategically closed and consolidated the equipment and production capacity of 19 facilities since our acquisition of Altivity in 2008.
These consolidations streamline our footprint and operations without diminishing our overall production capacity.
Another capital project that we continue to be excited about is the building of a bio-mass boiler in our Macon Georgia mill.
The bio-mass system will make the mill self-sufficient from an electrical power and steam generation standpoint thereby dramatically reducing energy cost and dependency on fossil fuel-based alternatives.
I'm very happy to report that during the quarter we received our environmental permit for this bio-mass project.
This was the final government hurdle and we are now officially cleared to begin the construction and installation process.
Our plan is to have the boiler fully operational by mid-2013.
Two other areas we continue to strategically invest to drive both demand and performance improvement include product innovation and enterprise resource planning systems.
On the product innovation side we commercialized over $80 million of new products versus same quarter 2010.
We remain focused on developing new and unique packaging that helps our customers differentiate their products lower their distribution costs and improve their sustainability metrics throughout the entire supply chain.
A newly developed solid CUK fiber carton was recently chosen to replace a traditional Litho-laminated structure by a major customer within the fast-growing beverage pouch sector.
This launch represents a continuation of our participation in this market as we currently service Coca-Cola for its Minute Maid drink pouches storable foods for their Swizzlers brand at Wal-mart and Target's Archer Farms line as well.
We'll start supplying this package late in the fourth quarter and should be at a full run rate by the middle of 2012.
In total this conversion represents over 75 000 new tons of CUK annually.
To support this business we are making a significant converting investment in our West Monroe carton plant and we are also providing packaging machinery to support the transition.
We believe the superior performance characteristics of a solid fiber carton and the enhanced environmental aspects make for an attractive substitute for traditional corrugated Litho-laminated materials in this sector.
We're excited about the long-term growth opportunities across the board.
Our strength in barrier packaging portfolio continues to grow with our customer adoption of new and patented structures to create lower costs and use less fiber and increase consumer convenience.
Our fresh first food service line aimed primarily at replacing plastic containers continues to gain traction in the market adding a number new customers in the quarter including Racetrack [ph] and Bob Evans and is being tested by a major food service provider.
New products are not just about selling board of course and in our microwave business we had 4 successful commercial launches during the quarter.
Some of these were focused on expanding our reach in the microwave market into new applications beyond our traditional susceptor or microwave applications.
For example ConAgra restaged their line of Marie Callender lasagna in press paperboard trays.
And again in July the Schwan Food Company launched a new Asian takeout style carton that is PET-laminated made by Graphic Packaging.
Our international efforts in microwave resulted in our first commercial susceptor product in China for the frozen pizza category.
And we introduced a microwave susceptor sleeve through our joint venture in Japan for the frozen fish market.
Focusing internally our investment at SAP and other enterprise-wide systems have allowed us to lead out our back office functions improving lines of sight across our asset base and automating the functions on the shop floor.
Improved systems have led to better matching of orders with our production facilities thereby allowing us to optimize our footprint and consolidate our purchasing.
New enterprise systems allow for centralization of production planning capabilities and streamline many of the overhead functions.
This has led to consolidation of administrative activities and reduced related back-office work for requirements.
As a result on October 12 of this quarter we announced a reduction in the force which reflects these structural changes in our cost structure.
When combined with the La Porte Indiana closure this is expected to generate annual savings in the range of $20 million to $25 million ongoing.
Let's talk a little bit about the sectors.
Paperboard production volume in our mills delivered another strong quarter due to improvement in initiatives in energy operating efficiencies and fixed costs.
Tons per day remained relatively flat compared to the third quarter last year but they improved by 94 tons per day versus our rate of production and the first 6 months of this year.
Backlogs remain consistent and we expect to build some board inventory to scale up -- to support the scale up of the new product work in 2012.
Our continuous improvement efforts at the mill generated nearly $5 million in cost savings in the third quarter alone which included almost $1 million in reduced energy usage.
If you look at the folding carton business our U.S.
business decreased in volume 1.4% in the third quarter.
This compares favorably to the overall industry which according to Paperboard Packaging decreased around 3.4% in the same period.
In market demand for many of our core consumer products remained relatively weak as a result of continued softness in the economy low consumer confidence and sticky high unemployment.
Consumption across a wide variety of even staples continues to be impacted by a high level of cost consumer savings and substitutions.
ACNielsen estimated that in a key category cereal and frozen pizza their volumes were down approximately 5% in the quarter.
As economic conditions remain challenging our consumer products business will continue to focus on innovation and customer service to capture the fast-growing opportunities in the marketplace.
If I look at beverage industry volume trends across the can market decreased on a year-over-year basis in the third quarter but showed some sequential improvement over the second quarter.
According to the Can Manufacturers Institute total beverage can shipments decreased 3.6% in the third quarter compared to a 5% decrease in the second quarter.
Both canned soft drink canned beer volumes remain down in the quarter with soft drink declining 4% and beer declining 2.6%.
We have seen trends flattening for take home and our customers indicate they believe we're at the bottom of the curve as we head into 2012.
Look I hope that that's the trend but we are being more cautious with our own internal projections at this time.
Categories that did perform well during the quarter included our facial tissue dairy confection and retail carry out.
All were up year-on-year.
Looking at Flexible Packaging we've seen really little change in this segment as the weak construction and industrial manufacturing sectors continue to prolong any type of real recovery.
Flexible Packaging sales increased 4% on a year-over-year basis.
It was driven primarily by higher pricing from recovery of paper and resin inflation and stronger demand for shingle wraps from the spring hurricane and storm damage replacement.
If I look at pricing and inflation we continue to see significant increases in both pricing and cost inflation in third quarter.
Pricing increased $29 million in the quarter and therefore $89 million over the 9-month period year-to-date this year.
Pricing increases continue to be driven by pricing reset mechanisms in our contracts that adjust price up and down based on changes in inflationary cost on approximate 9-month with back lag.
We expect pricing to remain positive in the fourth quarter and carryover into 2012.
Total cost inflation for 2010 in the quarter was approximately $39 million driven primarily by externally purchased board secondary OCC and chemicals.
OCC pricing has begun to pull back from recent highs as a result of softening export market non-fiber based inflation was primarily driven by TiO2 and freight increases in the quarter.
Looking forward difficult to do honestly but our view of the fundamental trends driving our business has not changed.
Pricing should remain positive inflation costs have begun to abate and we continue to invest in performance improvement and cost savings initiatives to expand our margins.
Commodity inflation is proven to be a major headwind for 2011 but I believe it could soften as we move into 2012 based on difficult global economies.
I think time will tell we'll know more as we move forward.
Debt reduction continues to be our primary focus and we will run our business to optimize cash flows and improve our credit profile.
It's been nearly 4 years since the current recession first began.
I don't think any of us believe that we would be bouncing along the bottom but that's exactly where we are.
The prolonged weak economy and continued high unemployment rate have taken their toll on American consumer and they are likely to remain very frugal with their spending even for basic necessity items like food and beverage.
This is a new reality and companies that are going to prosper in this operating environment need to be focused on bringing better faster smarter cheaper solutions to the marketplace.
That's exactly what we have been doing at Graphic Packaging.
This has allowed us to deliver innovative cost-saving solutions to our customers and grow our earnings and cash generation at the same time.
I'll now turn the call over to Dan for a more detailed discussion of our financial results.
Dan? Thanks David and good morning everyone.
David covered the operational highlights of the quarter.
I'll focus on financial results.
My comments track our posted presentation and for those of you following along I pick up on Page 10.
Let's start with the goodwill impairment charge we recorded for our flexible packaging segment.
In total the charge net of benefit is $80 million.
Firstly I would like to point out that this is a non-cash charge that does not have any effect on our operations liquidity or debt covenants.
Flexible Packaging as you probably remember was acquired in 2008 as part of the combination with Altivity Packaging.
As part of the purchase accounting for the transaction goodwill was allocated to Flexible Packaging based on 2007.
We're talking pre-recession projections.
With its focus on construction and industrial end markets the business has suffered a 20% volume decline and a corresponding decline in EBITDA.
Currently the business represents 17% of total company revenue and only 7.6% of total EBITDA.
With no prospects for our near-term economic recovery in construction and housing we adjusted goodwill to reflect the business valuation at the reduced volume levels.
Over the past year we have taken steps to reduce operating costs through plant rationalization overhead reduction and capital investment.
As a result of these actions we do expect Flexible Packaging's performance to improve however not in the short term to prerecession levels.
So we impaired the goodwill associated with the business.
Looking forward we will continue to focus on productivity improvements and further strategic options for the business.
Flexible Packaging does offer the potential to benefit significantly from volume increases resulting from an economic recovery.
And also as a side note we do perform a goodwill impairment test on each business at least annually.
And based on our latest review all other businesses past the impairment test by a comfortable margin.
With that now let's turn to our quarterly financial highlights that are adjusted for nonrecurring charges.
Looking at the results we see continuation of positive performance trends.
Revenues driven by higher pricing increased 2.9%.
Adjusted EBITDA is consistent with the prior year.
However we are pleased with this result as the comparison to prior year understates our performance improvement because of 2 special charges.
We will review the special charges in detail when we discuss EBITDA change.
Adjusted net income improved 40% for the quarter and is up to 77% year to date.
The main contributor to the quarterly improvement in net income is a reduction in interest expense of $9.2 million largely driven by cap reduction.
Year to date interest expense is down $23 million.
Also of note is the decline in the income tax rate.
Our effective rate dropped 25% from 39% as we continue to monetize the value of our $1.2 billion NOL tax shield.
We will not pay U.S.
income taxes until the NOL is depleted.
Now let's move on to revenue on Slide 11.
We see the 2.9% or $30 million improvement that David discussed.
Our pricing benefit the quarter by $29 million.
As you saw the improvement is largely driven by exercise in inflation recovery provisions and our packaging supply agreements.
Year-to-date we have recognized about $90 million in higher pricing.
This recovery has recouped the vast majority of last year's input inflation.
As a reminder our contractual inflation recovery is based on look-back calculations that lag inflation by about 9 months.
And given the lag price should continue to be favorable over the next several quarters as we continue to recover commodity inflation.
Turning to volume mix.
We see a modest $6 million decline for the quarter.
As David mentioned our U.S.
folding carton volumes modest decline of 1.4% fared relatively well as compared to the overall industry.
Moving to EBITDA on Slide 12.
We see that the Paperboard Packaging margin remains consistent at 17%.
As I mentioned previously EBITDA improved even though we incurred a couple of special charges that I will now walk you through.
First we recorded a $3.5 million charge related to the wind down of production in the Cincinnati converting operation and the concurrent startup of the Perry Georgia production line.
Cincinnati is now closed and production moved to the more efficient Georgia plant.
This cost penalty will not repeat next quarter.
Second the annual maintenance outage at our Macon mill was completed in September.
Last year the outage was completed in fourth quarter.
For this quarter the timing changed produces a $5 million unfavorable comparison to last year.
Next quarter we will pick up a $5 million benefit on the year-over-year comparison.
Now turning to Flexible Packaging.
We see that the EBITDA margin remains consistent with the prior year.
The benefit -- the business benefited from cost reduction however price recovery continues to lag inflation.
To conclude the year-over-year EBITDA comparison a comment about inflation.
As we have experienced throughout the year during the quarter we continue to see commodity inflation increase at a rate of around 5%.
The main drivers being the well-publicized increases for purchased paper secondary fiber and selected chemicals such as TiO2 and Latex.
Subsequent to quarter end we are observing signs of moderating inflation most notably illustrated by a pullback in OCC pricing.
A pullback in inflation should have a positive impact on operating results.
But remember that due to our inventory cycle time it takes about 60 days before a change in input costs affects our operating results.
Now before moving on to cash flow a quick comment about the recently announced La Porte Indiana closure and workforce reduction.
These reductions were made possible by our investments in information technology and production capabilities.
The key point is that the reductions are permanent.
We do not expect to add these costs back when volumes recover.
Overall this initiative gives us a jump start on cost reductions for 2012.
It is expected to produce an annual savings of $20 million to $25 million with most of the savings coming in 2012.
Now over the next 2 quarters we will record one-time charges plus $6 million to $8 million in total as a result of these actions.
Now turn to Slide 13.
Let's look at cash flow debt and liquidity.
Year-to-date net cash provided by operations continues to be strong as it improved $30 million over the prior year to $199 million.
Cash flow from reduced interest and improved operating performance more than offset a $30 million increase in capital investment.
As previously discussed the increase investment is focused on high-return projects like the Perry expansion the Macon boiler project and expanding volume opportunities in China and Europe with the placement of new packaging machinery at customer locations.
Year-to-date net debt has been reduced by $230 million.
$150 million comes from the equity offering and $80 million from operating cash flows.
Our net leverage ratio has improved to 3.8x and we remain on track to further reduce net debt an additional $120 million to $140 million by year end.
Our liquidity position currently in excess of $500 million remains strong.
Our credit statistics continue to improve as we approach the maturity date of our senior secured facility but the term loans maturing in May of 2014 we are evaluating refinancing alternatives and are monitoring the debt markets.
Our improving credit profile and stronger balance sheet will allow us access the market when the timing is right.
And now moving to Slide 14.
I will conclude by giving you the latest guidance for 2011.
Capital expenditures will be in $160 million range.
Cash pension contributions will be between $50 million and $60 million.
Pension expense of around $27 million.
Depreciation and amortization in the $280 million range.
Interest expense of $145 million to $150 million.
Net debt reduction from operations in the $200 million to $220 million range.
And finally our net leverage ratio should end the year around 3.5x.
And with that I will turn the call back to the operator for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from Ian Zaffino with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] the cost reduction program [indiscernible] you have in the quarter? Ian we can't hear you.
I can't hear a word you're saying bud.
Research Division</strong> I jumped on the call a little bit late.
Can you talk about the cost reduction programs where you got the $17 million from the quarter where going forward where else we can expect to see some more cost reductions? Well I mean the -- we had $17 million this quarter there wasn't anything unusual.
They were more efficient in the plant.
That's all they had to do with better purchasing substitution of products and I think our guidance for the year is that we still -- we remain comfortable with our total year forecast of somewhere around $70 million worth of cost reduction.
As you look at 2012 as Dan mentioned we've already announced the shutdown of our La Porte facility.
We've taken a restructuring a reduction in force that should generate $20 million to $25 million.
So we sort of have a head start of where we're heading into 2012.
And so as we look forward we -- our target in that I think we talk about $50 million to $60 million or in that range of cost reduction every year seems to be where we're headed towards.
Okay.
I just want to point out as well that netted in that $17 million is the 2 special charges I highlighted which together they total just short of $9 million.
Your next question comes from Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> As you highlighted that due to the lag with your paperboard price increases can you just help us understand what round of price increases are flowing through at the full and current level at this point first second round of last year? Well it really depends on the contract.
So what you have 2 things going through right? You have all the inflation that we experienced last year flowing through those contracts that have a direct pass-through for our input cost.
So last year the pretty significant move in fiber energy -- not energy fiber chemicals and freight and those are -- manifest themselves in increased prices whenever those openers occur.
For board pricing we're still working off of last year and some earlier board prices this year in both CRB SUS and I can't remember when the last SUS increase was I think it was late last year but nonetheless with the 9-month lag we're still seeing some of those increases flowing through as well.
So we look at -- those increases will continue into 2012 because we continue to see input inflation as well as we had board price increases earlier this year in the marketplace and with the normal lag you'll see certainly in the first quarter and probably in the second some from additional pricing flowing through in 2012 based on what's already been occurred in the board markets.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then you touched upon how -- from what you can tell on inflation it's decelerating a little bit and there's a lot of information on OCC.
But what about some of your other raw material cost whether it's TiO2 or freight cost going forward? Yes.
So if I'm looking forward in my insulation concern I'm not overly concerned with energy.
We make a firm out of our own energy and the rest of it is really natural gas based for the most part.
And I feel pretty good about the forward curves on natural gas.
I think the OCC or OCC derivatives are heading into 2012.
I think the first half of 2012 for what we can see right now probably moderate some even what we're paying today.
It just seems to be that global slowdown is impacting that global commodity.
The things that we hit of course our freight and chemicals.
Now we've done some things on freight as you can well imagine.
I've mentioned 2.
One shutting down our La Porte facility and relocating a lot of that business into our Kalamazoo carton facility which eliminates internal freight and our West Coast facility with the acquisitions we are specific again we just eliminate the freight.
The freight cost that we moved -- I mean Cincinnati was a very large facility.
I think it was 75 000 to 80 000 tons of board that we converted Cincinnati.
All that freight needed to be moved from predominantly West Monroe Louisiana and now that board of course will be right there on site with Macon.
So I think freight will clearly -- the incremental cost in freight will go up but we've done some things to actually take what we call freight miles if you will out of our system.
Chemicals are the biggest concern.
I mean you looked at that and certainly I think latex costs have moderate somewhat for us but TiO2 is a global commodity and you probably have just as good if not better insight for me on what TiO2 is going to be on a global basis.
Fortunately it's only a small part of our overall cost but nonetheless I expect TiO2 to see the greatest single individual increase on units but it's not particularly leveraging when you think of things like fiber energy and latex.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
When you quantify that looking forward do you think we’re going to get to price costing neutrality going forward or it sounds like you still have a lot of momentum on the price side and inflation's at least moderating on the margin? Well what I –- don’t you think a lot of that really depends upon what you think the view of 2012 is in the global? We are a business predominantly that buys the raw material on a global basis.
So we compete with Brazil and China and others for raw materials but we predominately sell our products into North America which is a tough demand market.
So pricing structure becomes difficult no matter what and you're buying raw materials on global basis.
Do I believe there's a better opportunity for a match of cost in pricing in 2012? Right now I would say yes.
Certainly better than 2011 because we don't expect to see the kind of inflation that we saw this year.
That depends upon the global recovery.
So you probably -- you can call that as well as me.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay very helpful.
And then I guess last question for Dan.
Do you have a sense of what free cash flow is going to look like next year? Just some of the moving pieces on pension contribution and then CapEx how is that going to look like in light of this recent win that you have on the Paperboard side? Right now we're staying pretty consistent with what we've seen in 2011.
So we're forecasting that $200 million to $220 million range.
Don't forget we've got predominant expenditure on the Macon bio-mass project next year comes due.
So if you sort of look at the flows.
I think Dan and I would say we believe $200 million to $220 million is the right range for 2012.
We've got some pretty attractive investments that we're looking at and as you can see our costs in terms of the cost of money particularly with the debt reduction is going to generate some additional cash for us as well.
Your next question comes from Ghansham Punjabi.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Matt Wooten sitting in for Ghansham today.
My first question relates to Paperboard and folding carton volumes.
They clearly outperform the industry and some of your competitors.
Would you attribute this to market share gains your business mix or both? I think most of it just has to do with business mix more than anything else.
I mean the thing about shares is they move around you gain a little bit you lose a little bit.
That's just the nature of the business.
What I would tell you is the predominant driver for us has been the new products stuff.
It's helped to offset the declines.
I said we had $80 million of new products in the quarter year-on-year.
That's helped offset some of the declines in the core business.
So our focus really has been more around new product activity and then just focus on the right mix in our business.
I think that drives more volume than anything else.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly if you would provide us with an update on the possibility of some curtailed production at the West Monroe plant based on river flow.
I know that -- I think the last we had read some additional river flow had been put in but any update would be helpful.
Well the -- right now with the structure -- with the pond structure that we have in West Monroe we have a fair amount of free board on the process.
The situation is getting a little better done there.
I'm very hopeful believe it or not that that -- the hurricane blowing through the gulf ends up raining in Louisiana and Arkansas as it's projected to do.
But at this point in time we project no real curtailment of our paperboard operations in the West Monroe.
Your next question comes from Joe Stivaletti with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on a couple of things.
I know it's very tough to forecast input cost inflation for next year but is there -- would it be possible for you to give us a little bit of a feel for what the catch up is on the pricing side that would slow into 2012 just based on what we're seeing here in 2011 on the cost side? Well I'll tell you for the most part I mean Joe we did predominantly the recovery of our input inflation in about a 9 sort of month lag.
So if you sort of look at what our inflation's blown through these year you'll see sort of input recovery at that for the most part at that rate.
So that's sort of what we would look in to for 2012.
Year-to-date what was our inflation? $130 million or something? $117 million year-to-date.
I think as you're probably going to see a pretty slowdown in the fourth quarter.
So we'll properly targeting -- if I'm talking to my operating businesses I'm saying hey guys we should be targeting $100-plus million for the price recovery as we head into 2012 right? Research Division</strong> Okay.
The other thing Dan I was wondering if you -- you mentioned here your debt reduction target for next year.
Embedded in that can you just mention what you're expecting on the CapEx in the pension side? We’re expecting CapEx to be slightly greater than the $160 million we're projecting for this year.
So we're in the $160 million $180 million range for 2012 on the CapEx.
Which includes the bio-mass.
The reason he's telling us because the bio-mass investment is pretty heavy.
It's sort of -- it's a one-time large $85 million project and predominant spending is 2012.
That's correct.
And your other question was on pension.
And in pension we're in that $60 million $80 million range in terms of cash contributions to our pension plans.
I mean we're on a program to get to a point where we're fully funded within 3 to 4 years.
And that's the amount that we're currently targeting.
We're over.
I mean we're spending -- we're doing greater than expense or minimum contribution...
Yes.
Our expense is running $30 million a year in pension.
Our contributions is depending on how the pension valuations come out it's in that $60 million range.
Your next question comes from Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Dave can you comment what you guys are paying for OCC now relative to the peak levels earlier this year? Well of course I won't give the exact OCC pricing for Graphic.
I think there was a chart on there.
What I would say is that if you look year on year the -- if you look at where we -- in the second quarter we were probably $40 or so on average 1 ton higher if you look at our charts versus what we were paying the year before.
In the third quarter it actually spiked up because the differential got greater as you moved into the July August timeframe.
But then as you got towards the end of the quarter the separation got significantly less.
So we sort of saw a peak of maybe $60 a ton that didn't drop pretty quickly to $40? And I think our forecast in the fourth quarter is to be significantly different year-on-year for OCC.
Research Division</strong> So you think the weakness that we're seeing for OCC pricing in China finds their way to our shores? Well we've already seen it finding -- the thing that Dan reminds me and my accounting people continue to -- before I get to exuberant about the process is that we turn our inventories we have 60 days’ worth of good news tied up when we've had lower cost purchasing raw material cost.
So if you sort of look at our business and realize that August was probably the single highest delta that we paid year-on-year and then September we started to see a significant drop maybe one of the lowest deltas in the year.
I'm -- as you flow through the fourth quarter we'll see those kinds of activities.
As you get into the first quarter of 2012 what I would expect to see is that all that low-cost OCC starting to blow through our P&amp;L.
Research Division</strong> So what's the right way to think about the benefit that to GPK I mean you guys buy 1 million tons.
Can we just take the change in the price and...
I guess Alex the question is if you're trying to do quarterly numbers or annual numbers.
So if I would look over a long period of time I would say as you well know the margins will expand in the short term as you get pricing greater than that inflation because you're working off of previous flows and then it will go the other way when it turns around.
So I like to think of it over the long period of time we don't really make a lot of money on pricing on raw material flows.
What we try to do is make sure we don't give away margin on input flows but quarter-to-quarter dislocations it's not really helpful or useful to really think of the business in that.
We don't think of it that way you get to think of it any way you want but that's not how we look at the business.
Research Division</strong> No that's helpful.
I would think you probably do get at least 6 or 9 months of that benefit given the lag and they way that the cost structure is ultimately passed through to the customer on price.
Sure.
But we're kind of hoping for longer-term investors than 6 months.
So yes.
For those people absolutely.
But if you go for the long haul it pretty much works its way out.
You know what I'm saying? Research Division</strong> Yes absolutely helpful.
Can you comment on what Sierra contributed in the EBITDA during the quarter? Here's what I will tell you.
We have not broken out the Sierra Pacific because now it's completely integrated into the business.
What I will tell you is that we've been pleasantly surprised with the growth in the EBITDA contribution from the Sierra Pacific acquisition.
That's -- and even I was surprised on how good that ended up being.
Research Division</strong> Do think it's fully in the numbers or is there still...
No it's not completely in the numbers.
No no.
I won't be fully in the number.
We'll need a year-on-year lap to be able to do that but it's clearly contributing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just 2 more final questions.
On the incremental 75 000 tons of business does that mean you're going to have to buy more board on the outside market? Or do you have opportunity to just increase production within the existing mill structure? What I will tell you is that we -- we're building some inventory.
Now to manage it I think we'll be pretty balanced on board -- this is all SUS.
I think we'll be pretty balanced on SUS but certainly we will look to acquire international operations if necessary alternative -- abort substrates to make sure we run our converting business.
But what I'm hedging for Alex is I don't really have a good feel for what the overall demand in the marketplace is going to go.
If demand peaks back up or stays flat then I think it's all additive.
If in fact demand continues to Slide X Y and Z then it's a great positive.
It keeps us moving forward.
It outperforms the industry but I don't know that I would plot it on everything we're doing because I just don't have a good enough feel for what pizza beer soft drink is going to do in 2012.
Not where I sit today.
Research Division</strong> Got it that makes a lot of sense.
The last question for Dan.
Just on the corporate line.
That number went up I think $4 million sequentially if I we entered correctly.
What's the right way to think about that corporate expense line for '11 and maybe if you have any insight on '12? It would be very helpful.
Well when you think about it inflation affects it a lot particularly when you’ve got employee benefit inflation it affects that number quite significantly.
Also some of our center plans.
As you see our performance improve our incentive plans affect that number as well.
We do not put incentive compensation into cost of sales at all.
It's all in the corporate line and it predominantly resides in the corporate office around the business units.
Your next social comes from Richard Close from Jefferies.
Most of my questions have been answered.
But you guys have been doing a great job reducing debt.
And it looks like you're going to have a bunch of free cash flow again next year.
At what point do you guys focus on something different from debt reduction? Well that's a great question for Graphic.
You go back to those charts.
Look we started this enterprise at 6.5 or 6.8 leverage.
So that's been our focus.
I still think we have some work to do in 2012.
If you look at our former projections and you do the math our ratios are clearly going to be -- they're going to be in very good shape as we head into 2012.
Dan mentioned we have some good projects working on.
I love the Sierra Pacific bolt-on acquisition.
And our focus is to be able to find those kind of things that we could comfortably do within our business that adds both profit growth and cash flow.
And so that -- right now that is our primary focus on the business.
I want to be careful.
Right now we still got -- it's a tough debt market for sure and we still got a fair amount of debt to -- even when we get done we're still going to be refinancing Dan what? Close to $2 billion of debt in 2013 at worse case.
So we're going to be pretty -- we're going to be smart about what we do there.
But clearly our focus on cash is paid off.
It will change somewhat as we head into 2013.
I will tell you this our internal metrics as we move into 2012 we're focusing on ROIC as predominant metric for the management team.
So we are going to make even a shift internally to recognize the sort of the need for shareholder value really comes from EVA or ROIC improvement.
Your next question comes from George Staphos with Bank of America.
It's actually Benjamin Wong filling in for George.
Can you review your trends in your beverage end markets and maybe why you feel deterioration in volume trends have slowed? Well I mean predominantly we're take home right? And so the trends in the beverage business it seemed to have slowed the most had been on premise.
I think that's just a reflection of the economy right? It continued to be difficult and there is more of a trade-off to take home which is what we care about cans and bottle pack and the overall process.
So I think it's more of a mix thing than anything else.
It's just the realization the economy is there.
I will also tell you that it's not in no small part.
With the acquisition of Sierra Pacific we ended up a much bigger player in the craft beer sector right? And craft beer is growing.
It's still growing 12% to 13% a year.
So that's had some positive influence on our volume numbers and will on a go-forward basis as well.
But I won't -- I don't think anything's necessarily structural to change.
You do hear Coke and PepsiCo talking about North American volume and we're positive certainly that they want to drive those trends better and you do see some additional promotion around the Super Bowl and those kind of things already starting to flow through.
But I'm just trying to be cautiously optimistic because there's a lot of the forecast by our customers in volume improvement all year has just not materialized.
So let's hope they're right and it starts to turn around.
But I think we've got to plan for a different environment and hopefully we'll be pleasantly surprised from an operating leverage in 2012.
Okay.
And the Macon bio-mass boiler project is pretty attractive.
Do you have similar opportunities at your other mills? Really don't.
I mean the reality is that -- well I should rephrase that.
We do in West Monroe if natural gas get somewhere around $7.50 to $8.
But West Monroe is a very efficient energy mill relatively speaking and it's all natural gas based.
So in Macon we're based on coal and increasingly nuclear.
And while those in fact are maybe great sources of energy they are expensive.
And so the Macon bio-mass facility is a very quick payback project for sure.
West Monroe was a little more difficult we're in the natural gas base.
So when natural gas sort of trends to $7 or $8 that makes sense.
But at $4 very difficult to get a payback on bio-mass.
Your next question comes from Mark Kaufman with Rafferty Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> I've been following the company I guess about 5 or 6 years now and I've got to say you've done a terrific job.
But battling first it was a $12 natural gas and then OCC prices transportation prices et cetera.
And I guess maybe I'm following on from an earlier question.
It seems you've always been 9 months behind the curve because you've never gotten a break on inflation.
And not looking at it per se on a quarterly basis but as a long-term investor it could affect in a positive way the investment and that being what if all of a sudden you got into that position where you had a flat inflation environment the additional cash that it would generate that you could use then to well either pay down more debt or pay down the -- I assume you have to pay a dividend of some sort.
So I'm just asking on a philosophical question on a what if that you finally got a break on the inflation side? Well here's the deal.
I mean I'm not big on hypotheticals.
I don't let my business measures do the hypotheticals for me either because that sort of gets away from direct accountability.
But I will tell you that is if you look at the margin arbitrage that occurred in 2009 we saw exactly the phenomenon you're talking -- I don't know whether we see that phenomenon again wherein in that year you saw a drop off in raw material cost but pricing flowing through from extremely high 2008 inflation.
So you saw margin expansion right? But you know what? It's bleeding because then by the time 2010 rolls around the raw material cost come back up your pricing is pretty flat from the previous year or decline and therefore the margin -- so as Dan and I think about margins on our Paperboard business we sort of look at that 17% 18% saying that's sort of where we end up on the long-haul unless we materially change the new products or we entirely change the mix or we're more successful in some of the emerging markets in the overall process.
And that's a little difficult to forecast.
Vis-a-vis what we do with extra cash I think I made this comment before but as you well know in our current bank structure we are precluded for making any payments other than debt reduction and right now even though we've created additional basket to pay down our high-yield debt everything we can really pay down in high yield has been paid off.
So really all we can do with increased cash flow between now and until we refinance that debt structure is to go to bank -- is to pay down bank debt.
And I don't have the exact rates but we are sub 3 I believe on bank debt.
Dan is it there? That's correct.
So we're paying down as you can well imagine pretty cheap money.
But we do not have -- we have a covenant restriction that will allow us to do anything other than that which is why we continue to pay down debt.
Or put it on the balance sheet right now because I think at the end of the quarter we're up to almost $160 million of cash on the balance sheet.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well it's not a bad thing.
It certainly gives you options.
If you don't have enough cash nothing else matters.
Your next question comes from Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I hopped on late so I apologize if any of this is redundant but for the new customer how quickly do you expect to ramp up that capacity? So we'll start we've already started shipping some moderate volumes but it will probably be late first quarter early second quarter before we sort of get it at an annualized run rate.
We were supplying equipment to the customers so that they can make the transitions and machine modifications and those kind of things.
So I think certainly by middle of the second quarter we should pretty much on a full run rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the bleach board there were attempted price increases there that didn't go through and it seems like the volumes are a bit challenged there.
So I'm wondering if you think that there's any possibility you could see reductions in prices there in terms of your input cost.
Who knows? I mean I can't talk about individual customer or supplier pricing contracts.
Certainly there's opportunities across our entire supply chain to be able to adjust.
But I will tell you that -- you got to remember that bleach board pricing changes up or down we pass that back to our customer pretty quickly.
So a bleach board pricing change really has virtually no -- really even quarterly impact on Graphic Packaging for the most part it flows through very very quickly.
Up or down.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough okay.
And then in terms of the productivity for next year I just want to clarify the savings that you announced recently the $20 million to $25 million.
Is that part of essentially your annual guidance there or is that a potential source of upside? How should we think about that? I would think -- we would think of it for the most part in our normal annual sort of numbers.
We do these kind of things on an ongoing basis.
As I said since 2008 we've shut down 19 manufacturing facilities.
So that's all part of our mix.
Our guidance for next year still remains sort of in that $50 million to $70 million range in cost reduction Dan? We're going to put out $60 million $80 million is our guidance here.
So we'll probably be pretty close.
I mean we haven't finished our 2012 internal guidance but that would be where we're headed.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So should we be thinking $60 million to $80 million or something slightly less because of the volume -- potentially the volumes? I would stick to the $60 million to $80 million dollar range.
I think that makes sense.
I mean the problem with CI and you guys know the continuous improvement is that there is a certain volume impact.
If we run more products we make it more effective.
So we're not trying to be cute we're just trying to hedge the fact that it's very difficult to get a forward trend on volume.
So if I don't have a feel for volume it's really difficult to have perfect numbers on [indiscernible] improvement because it's a lot around throughput.
I do believe we sort of seem to be at the bottom of the volume.
That's where our customers believe but I'll tell you what guys.
Until I see a quarter or so of it I'm not calling any victory or any improvement on volumes to drive Graphic Packaging financials.
I'd love to.
It's incredibly leveraging to our cost structure but it's hard for me to look forward and believe that's the driver of margins.
And your final question is a follow-up from Alex Ovshey of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones here.
As I listened to everything you said why wouldn't 2012 be an up year for you from an earnings perspective? It looks like you're finally seeing pricing catch up to inflation and the inflation is tapering off.
You're still targeting $60 million $80 million of productivity on the volume saddle.
Who knows? It seems like the volume declines of these second derivatives has flattened out.
So as we think about '12 are we missing anything if we think about it being an up year for you next year? I think the thing that all of us -- I mean for the most part we're making folding cartons and paper which is still a base materials business.
It's tremendously leveraged towards volume in the business.
It's a leveraging on the upside and leverage on the downside.
I think in this quarter we had something like $5 million worth of EBITDA impact from carton plants that we took down to manage volume so that didn't build inventory.
$5 million in the quarter alone from carton volume.
So it has an upside if volume changes.
If volume continues then we have ongoing cost in that process.
So I believe 2012 is a better year.
I always believe the next years is going to be a better year but quite frankly I've given up forecasting volume trends in my business because my customers are struggling to understand it and I'm once removed from them.
So that's sort of the 900-pound gorilla in the room.
So whatever you sort of think of general economic recovery for unemployment consumer spending in staple products that's probably a good indicator where you think Graphic Packaging will be up or down.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And last question.
Just where do you see your utilization rates at the converting level right now? We have plenty of upside potential because converting’s pretty easy to flip on and run some overtime.
We don't even think about it in terms of utilization the converting business.
It's not a useful number.
And at this time there are no further questions.
All right.
Well we appreciate everybody.
And we'll talk to you next quarter.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Graphic Packaging Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce Brad Ankerholz Vice President and Treasurer.
Please begin.
Thank you Rachel and welcome to everybody on the phone to the Graphic Packaging Holding Companies fourth quarter and full year 2011 earnings call.
Commenting on results this morning will be David Scheible the company’s President and CEO; and Dan Blount our Senior Vice President and CFO.
To help you follow along with today's call we have provided a slide presentation which can be accessed by clicking on the Q4 earnings webcast link on the Investor Relations section of our website which is graphicpkg.com.
I would like to remind everyone this morning that statements of our expectations in this call constitute forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements including but not limited to statements relating to the effect of the combination with Delta Natural Kraft and Mid-America Packaging recovery of raw material inflation costs consumer demand and pricing trends capital expenditures cash pension contributions and pension expense depreciation and amortization interest expense debt and leverage reduction performance improvements and cost reduction initiatives including the closure of facilities are based on currently available information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's present expectations.
These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to the company's substantial amount of debt inflation of and volatility in raw material and energy costs cutbacks in consumer spending that could affect demand of the company's products continuing pressure for lower cost products and the company's ability to implement its business strategies including productivity initiatives and cost reduction plans.
Undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements as such statements speak only as of the date on which they are made and the company undertakes no obligation to update such statements.
Additional information regarding these and other risks is contained in the company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
And with that I'll turn it over to David.
Great.
Thanks Brad.
Good morning everyone.
We are pleased with our fourth quarter results as we delivered higher sales and expanded margins.
Volumes across the industry remains somewhat constrained in the quarter.
The Graphic Packaging's fourth quarter volume and mix trends were positive as a result of overseas growth new customer wins new product launches and substrate substitution.
The quarter compared to 2010 fourth quarter net sales increased roughly 4% to a little over $1 billion and adjusted EBITDA increased 10% to $147 million.
Higher pricing stronger operating performance and cost reduction initiatives more than offset higher input costs.
Fourth quarter pricing increased by $27 million.
We generated a $20 million net benefit from our ongoing cost reduction and supply chain optimization efforts.
For the full year pricing increased $116 million and we achieved our goal of over $70 million in cost reductions.
Performance improvements are a critical part of our overall strategy and they are not solely a result of cutting cost or driving lean manufacturing principles.
We continue to put money back into our business making strategic investments to streamline the business reduce our long-term cost structure and add top line growth.
In 2011 we invested $160 million on CapEx projects to efficiently maintain our assets and drive sales operating margins and cash flow.
One of our largest capital projects was the expansion of our Perry Georgia and West Monroe Louisiana carton facilities.
And the reallocation of volume from other higher-cost plants that were closed during the year.
Through our ongoing efforts to streamline our assets we have been able to shrink our overall converting footprint without diminishing our total carton production capacity.
A critical element of our asset optimization strategy is strategic acquisitions and partnerships.
Our acquisition of Sierra Pacific last April provided a strategic location in northern California to service our West Coast customers and allow us to leverage our Santa Clara California recycle board mill.
This acquisition has helped reduce our cycle times it has lowered our transportation cost and is better aligned volumes with geographies.
More importantly it's increased our exposure to the fast-growing craft beer and wine box markets and broaden our customer base.
I could not be happier with how this acquisition has turned out and been integrated.
In December we announced a joint venture between Delta Natural Kraft Mid-America Packaging and our Flexible Packaging division.
Neither party received cash consideration but Graphic Packaging did repay approximately $26 million of debt as part of the transaction.
The combination creates North America's only vertically integrated multi-wall bag business and allows for significant synergies of potential profit improvement.
It also introduces us to new customers and growth opportunities as Mid-America's business was slightly different.
Incremental sales of the new business are expected to be around $125 million and we estimate operating synergies to be between $20 million and $25 million.
This should lead to double-digit margins in this business by 2013.
These types of small tuck-under acquisitions or combinations are an important part of our growth and optimization strategy going forward and we will continue to look for similar opportunities.
Other core areas of significant capital investment in 2011 were product innovation and energy conservation.
On the product innovation side we remained very focused on developing new and unique packaging that helps our customers differentiate their products.
It lowers their distribution cost and improve their sustainability metrics throughout the entire supply chain.
Last quarter I mentioned to you about a newly-developed solid CUK fiber carton that was chosen to replace the traditional corrugated litho-lam structure by a major customer in the fast-growing juice pouch sector.
The product is Kraft Food Capri Sun juice pouches.
And I'm happy to report that we begin supplying this new package in November.
Volumes will continue to transition over the next few quarters and we expect the full run rate volume to exceed 75 000 tons of CUK per year.
We've made a significant investment in our West Monroe carton plant to support this conversion and we have also supplied the packaging machines to Kraft as part of the transition.
We believe the superior performance characteristics of our solid fiber carton and the enhanced environmental aspects make for an attractive substitute to traditional corrugated materials and we're excited about its potential from other customer wins in similar areas this year.
On the energy conservation side the building of our bio-mass boiler in our Macon Georgia mill remains on schedule.
Permits are in place construction is ongoing and in total this is expected to be about an $80 million project that will run through the middle of 2013.
The boiler will make the mill self-sufficient from an electrical power and steam generation standpoint thereby reducing energy costs and improving profitability.
We should have excess renewable energy to sell back to the grid in 2013 and beyond.
Debt reduction and strengthening our capital structure remains a top priority -- remained a top priority in 2011 and for that matter well for 2012.
Net reduction from operations was $218 million for the year which was at the high-end of our targeted $200 million to $220 million range.
We also used a portion of the proceeds from the April stock offering to pay down debt.
In total we reduced net debt by $346 million in 2011 and ended the year with a net leverage ratio of 3.5x.
The April stock offering not only accelerated our debt reduction efforts but it also improved the liquidity of our stock and supported the acquisition of Sierra Pacific.
Let's talk a little bit about Paperboard.
Fourth quarter performance on our mills was strong.
Improvements in energy and operating efficiencies in fixed costs translate to the bottom line.
Our integrated efforts to consolidate purchases continued to yield significant cost reduction coatings process chemicals and wood.
Tons produced per day increased nearly 2% over last year's fourth quarter while backlogs for our key CUK and CRB substrates remained strong at about 3 to 4 weeks.
Volume in folding carton business decreased about 1.6% in the fourth quarter.
This modest decline was consistent with the third quarter as we were able to offset continued softness in end market demand to growth in Asia Pacific region new customer wins new product launches and substrate substitution.
ACNielsen estimated that our key categories of cereal and frozen pizza volumes were down roughly 4% and 6% respectively in the quarter.
The at-home frozen pizza category continues to be challenged by competitive delivery prices.
Facial tissue however had a strong quarter and we were significantly outperformed the industry.
Graphic packaging facial tissue sales increases 16% versus decline of 6% for the industry as measured by ACNielsen.
Industry volume trend across the canned beverage market decreased on a year-over-year basis in the fourth quarter.
According to the Can Manufacturers Institute total beverage cans decrease around 5% in the fourth quarter was soft declining about 5.7%; and beer around 3.7%.
In total Graphic Packaging beverage business outperformed the industry with soft drink sales increasing about 3% and beer sales declining roughly 4.5% in the quarter.
Turning to our Flexible Packaging business.
We really see very little change in this segment as the construction and industrial manufacturing sectors remained stagnant in Q4.
Flexible Packaging sales increased 4% in the quarter due to increased pricing and the additional of the joint venture of course in December.
As discussed earlier this new joint venture with Delta Natural Kraft and Mid-America Packaging should enhance both the growth and profit profile of this business.
Turning to pricing inflation for the quarter we saw significant benefit from higher pricing while cost inflation remained in line with expectations.
Pricing increased $27 million in the quarter and $116 million for the full year.
The increases continue to be driven by the pricing reset mechanisms in our contracts that adjust pricing up or down based on changes in inflationary cost on an approximate 9-month lag.
We expect pricing to remain positive for the full year of 2012.
Total cost inflation was $33 million in the  quarter and about $151 million for the year.
Primary drivers in the quarter were externally purchased board predominantly SBS and paper inks encodings and chemicals.
We've also seen an uptick in freight cost with the rise in diesel fuel surcharges.
After peaking in Q3 OCC pricing moderated in the quarter to an average price per Graphic Packaging of roughly $137 per ton.
We will begin to capture the benefits of these lower OCC prices as newer inventory gets converted into finished cartons in first quarter of 2012.
I do expect secondary fiber to trend upward as we move through 2012.
Looking forward we finished 2011 strong and we are very well-positioned heading into 2012.
We have a strong pipeline of new business ramping up early in 2012 that should help offset any general ongoing weakness in the macro folding carton markets.
The new business is the combination of new innovative products such as our new Capri Sun launch share gains in frozen drive foods pasta and food service spread between price and cost reduction and inflation should be positive in 2012 and we expect to see continued expansion in our margins.
Combined inflation is always a wildcard but the trends thus far seem to be favorable and we are optimistic that 2012 could see less inflationary pressure than 2011.
Reducing debt strengthening the capital structure remain key initiatives in 2012 and we will continue running our business to drive cash flows and improve our credit profile.
I'll now turn it over to Dan for more detailed discussion of our financial results.
Dan? Thanks David and good morning everyone.
David covered the operational highlights of the quarter.
I'll focus on the financial results.
My comments track our posted presentation.
Let's start with Q4 and full year financial highlights on Page 9.
Adjusted Q4 results show strong operating improvement over the prior year.
EBITDA up 10.4% net income more than doubled to $0.06 per share.
Main drivers of the improvement include revenue growth improved operating margins and lower interest expense.
In order to provide comparable financial reporting and a better baseline for gauging future performance we adjusted results to remove nonrecurring transactions.
Let's talk about the 3 principal Q4 adjustments.
First we recorded a value for $1.2 billion NOL tax shield on the balance sheet.
Based on our 3-year track record of profitability and positive view of future earnings a determination was made that it was more likely than not that we would fully monetize the NOL.
We recognize the value of the NOL by recording a $265 million adjustment to set up a net tax asset.
The adjustment includes $460 million for the value of the federal NOL using a 35% tax rate.
This amount was netted against future tax liabilities primarily related to depreciation and amortization timing differences.
The change has no impact on our cash income tax obligation as we continue to pay -- to not pay U.S.
income taxes until the NOL is fully consumed.
Currently we project that we will not pay federal income taxes for 4 to 6 years.
Going forward we will record income tax expense and offset the expense against the tax asset.
For those of you updating models we expect an effective tax rate of approximately 38%.
The second adjustment relates to the workforce reduction that we announced in October.
The reduction will produce an ongoing annual benefit of $20 million to $25 million.
In Q4 we recorded the charge of $5.2 million principally for severance related to this cost reduction.
And finally the remainder of the adjustments principally relate to the nonrecurring charges incurred during the business combination with Delta Natural Kraft.
As David commented this transaction is expected to be highly accretive projected to generate $20 million of annual benefit beginning in 2013.
Now moving to Page 10.
We see a 4% or $40 million growth in Q4 revenues.
For the year revenues grew 2.7%.
Increased pricing benefited the quarter by $27 million.
This improvement is principally driven by exercising inflation recovery provisions included in our packaging supply agreements.
Year-to-date we recognized about $116 million of higher pricing which recouped the vast majority of the commodity inflation we incurred in 2010.
As we have stated previously our contractional inflation recovery is based on look back calculations that lag inflation by about 9 months.
Given the lag price should be favorable over the next couple of quarters as we continue to recover commodity inflation.
Turning to volume mix we see a $12 million increase for the quarter.
Our Paperboard Packaging segment as a whole increased 4% as we grew packaging sales in our Asia-Pacific markets and grew open market sales of paperboard.
Additionally our domestic sales mix improved partially due to the initiation of Capri Sun shipments.
The Flexible Packaging segment finished essentially flat for the quarter as the partial month addition of Delta Natural Kraft offset a modest volume decline in our historical business.
Moving to Page 11 we see a Q4 year-over-year EBITDA increase of $14 million.
The improvement was driven by our Paperboard Packaging segment as its full year 2011 margin improved to 16.9% from 16.2% in 2010.
In addition to strong price recovery fourth quarter realized $20 million of benefit from improved operating productivity.
We performed well in the execution of our cost-cutting initiatives and for the year we hit the high-end of our guidance range by delivering benefits totaling $76 million.
In addition to CI major 2011 cost reduction activities included converting plant consolidations like the closure of our higher-cost Cincinnati facility and corresponding realignment of business volume to the newly expanded Perry Georgia plant as well as our West Monroe plant.
Also as David mentioned our acquisition of Sierra Pacific increased the integration of our Santa Clara mill and allowed us to further streamline our supply chain and reduce freight and board costs.
Now moving to look ahead to 2012 we have initiated our major cost reduction projects and expect to deliver another $60 million to $80 million of benefit.
The key value drivers include capturing the full year benefit of the 2011 plant consolidations realizing the workforce reductions and executing defined projects focused on productivity improvements and waste reduction in both our mills and converting plants.
We have also gotten a jumpstart on 2013 cost reduction.
As we expect the Macon biomass boiler to begin operation in mid-2013 and also expect to realize $20 million of annualized synergies from the Delta Natural Kraft combination.
To conclude the year-over-year EBITDA comparison I'll comment about inflation.
As we have experienced throughout the year during the quarter we continued to see inflation increase at the rate of around 4%.
The main drivers being increased prices for externally purchased board and paper secondary fiber selected chemicals and freight.
During the quarter we did experience the much-publicized decline in pricing for secondary fiber and natural gas.
As a reminder we used about 12 million MMBtus of natural gas annually and consumed about 900 000 tons of secondary fiber.
Any pullback in the rate of commodity inflation should have a positive impact on our results.
But remember that due to our inventory cycle time it takes about 2 to 3 months for our input cost change the flow through operating results.
Now turning to Page 12 let's look at cash flow debt and liquidity.
2011 net cash provided by operations improved $50 million over the prior year to $388 million.
Cash flow from reduced interest costs and improved operating performance drove the improvement.
CapEx increased $37 million to $160 million.
The increased investment focused on high-return projects like the Perry expansion the Macon boiler and expanding volume opportunities by placing new packaging machinery at customer locations in Europe and China.
Overall our CapEx investments are targeted at projects with less than 3-year paybacks.
We ended the year hitting our deleveraging guidance as our net leverage ratio improved to 3.5x.
M&amp;A activity was managed to be leveraged accretive or neutral.
Overall year-to-date net debt was reduced by $346 million $218 million coming from operations and around $150 million from the secondary offering.
Liquidity remains strong at over $600 million.
We continue to target a leverage ratio and the 2.5 to 3x range and expect to be near the top-end of this range by the end of 2012.
During 2013 we expect to be operating well within the range.
With our revolving credit facility maturing in May 2013 and the term loans a year later we began the refinancing process.
Graphic Packaging's improved credit statistics and upgraded credit ratings provide us much broader access to credit markets.
At present we are actively pursuing a $2 billion senior secured commitment based on today's attractive market pricing.
The new facility will have ample operating flexibility and will include substantial baskets to allow us to initiate dividends and/or stock buybacks amongst other improvements.
Given that we are fast approaching our target leverage this new facility will provide the appropriate debt structure for us to operate under for several years.
The specifics of the facility are still under review but we expect to have the refinancing complete by the end of next month.
Now for our guidance let's move to Page 13 and we'll have a summary.
First capital expenditures will be in the $190 million to $210 million range.
This higher level of spending is driven by completing the bulk of the biomass boiler spend and completing most of the investment needed to drive the Delta Natural Kraft integration.
Cash pension contributions will be between $40 million and $70 million pension expense of around $40 million.
Depreciation and amortization in the $250 million to $280 million range; interest expense of $130 million to $145 million.
Also we expect to achieve net debt reduction of $200 million while funding increased CapEx spending and paying refinancing costs of around $25 million.
And finally our net leverage ratio should end the year around 3x.
And with those comments I would turn the call back to the operator for the question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Based on your comments about refi and what not and leverage comfort zone I guess you guys could be in position to start returning cash as soon as sometime in 2013? Is that your assumption? Well as we said we're entering our target range at the end of 2012 so that's going to open up a lot of opportunities for us in terms of what to do with the cash.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when I look at your price cost Brad it's obviously narrowing quite a bit and it's tracking more favorably and it sounds like the impact of OCC coming in should kick in a little more fully in Q1 and a recent pull back in that -- so should we see a neutral or even perhaps a positive price cost spread in Q1? I have -- it will depend upon what our mix on OCC-based products are.
What I would tell you is yes I mean I think if you record the quarter probably we'll see an additional improvement in the quarter.
But I don't -- and talk about this before [indiscernible]  -- I don't really think the long-term driver of improved margins is really around this around a pure question of inflation and pricing because ultimately it becomes a transitory process.
It goes up we get it back; it runs through the deal.
What you are going to see the margin expansion I think is going to be growth and then through the capitalization of some of these projects that we talked about like the risk -- and the shutdown of high-cost manufacturing facilities the integration of Delta Natural Kraft and Sierra Pacific.
So I think that's where the margin really comes from.
Not this inflation price arbitrage because I think it's from a quarter-to-quarter standpoint it's kind of arbitrary.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And just lastly I mean David I think you called it out last quarter if I remember correctly that bonds are actually starting to stabilize a bit here in [indiscernible]  so what you are hearing from your customers? And it sounds like some for your beverage customers are at least stepping up promotional spending so I just want to get sense on it.
And unemployment is a little bit better on the margin so...
Yes I mean what I would tell you is that I like the momentum going into -- I like the momentum going into the first quarter based on what we've seen already.
I will remind you Philip that I had the same sort of feeling going into the first quarter of 2011 and there was good momentum and then the year just sort of kind of petered out.
But right now we're busy backlogs are good and our customers are definitely promoting.
We've got a lot of new product wins that are starting the year as opposed to back-end of the year loaded.
So I'm feeling okay about volumes going into 2012.
Your next question comes from Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> It's Matt Wooten sitting in for Ghansham today.
A few questions if I may.
Those your expectation of reaching the price cost parity and assuming that that's not going to be the primary driver but does that assume the successful implementation of the February CUK price increase? Yes.
I don't think we've had a lot -- I don't think we've ever really projected much price increase in board for our 2012 look forward.
We are seeing some lift in CUK.
I mean CUK pricing year-on-year was up something like $80 a ton or something like that 10%.
And some of that came in the second half of the year so we'll get more of the run rate of that as we go into 2012.
But at this point in time we don't have a lot factored in for pricing improvement necessarily coming from board movement in the first half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then of the $200 million or so in CapEx how much of that would you consider maintenance CapEx? We can run this -- let's see I've got to add the Delta Natural Kraft.
But I would think we can run this business on $105 million to $106 million a year in CapEx if we really really had to.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly the trajectory of the DNK synergies.
Is that something we should see start accruing in the second half of 2012? Or is that something that's not going to happen until 2013? It's really more into 2013.
We've begun the announcement on some things we're doing in plant consolidation so on and so forth but some those synergies are really around how we integrate some of that board and get out some old bad contracts and so and so forth that will take some time for those to run their course.
But those synergies I mean if we didn't believe those $20 million of synergies were there I wouldn't be telling you they were.
Your next question comes from the Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So just on the end market some of your food customers have been talking pretty cautiously on the volume side.
What do you see on that front? It really -- it's really by -- it's very sectorial.
So cereal is actually doing pretty good.
Pizza is still sort of difficult but some of the snacks and things are good.
Beverage as somebody mentioned Coca-Cola and Pepsi are doing pretty well from a volume standpoint.
So it really depends on the core end-use market.
I think the bigger impact on that is going to be what do we really think the impact of oil prices are going to be vis-à-vis natural gas right? I mean -- I'm sorry vis-à-vis the consumer's pocketbook right? And predicting that will be interesting.
I think the President's down in Florida talking about energy today probably anxiously waiting for that outcome.
But right now what you're seeing for us in the real short-term is energy prices translating into fuel surcharges and that while it doesn't necessarily affect our P&amp;L directly it affects my end-use consumer.
Research Division</strong> Okay so you're not really seeing anything that for example General Mills I believe is talking about weaknesses as quarter progress.
And I think some of these customers even said January was kind of weak.
So you're not really seeing that at this stage? No not across the entire spectrum.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the driver of outperformance on the tissue side what would you attribute that to? Some of it's share some of it's just sort of mix.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the question on CapEx $105 million is what you could run at.
But what's kind of a realistic run rate kind of ex the bio-mass project moving forward? How much was -- is bio-mass this year? I think Dan has always said that our target in CapEx is somewhere between $160 million and $175 million a year because we have enough good cost reduction and growth projects that we would fund during that period of time.
So we're not going to run the company on $105 million.
The question was what could you? And I'm saying we could.
But the reality is that if I'm modeling in and I model forward with my board I'm thinking between $160 million and $175 million is a really good CapEx project.
The $85 million -- $80 million boiler project hits a lot of it in -- most of that comes through in 2012.
I think there's some catch-up in 2013 some carryover in the first quarter.
But predominantly it's 2012.
Because the heavy constructions going on now all the boiler is being built it will be installed at the end of this year that type of thing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the synergies that you talked about -- you're talking about kind of a head start on 2013 in saves.
So should we interpret that to mean the synergies will be part of the standard $60 million to $80 million? Or is that incremental to the standard performance opportunities? Well I have no -- I think it really has virtually no impact in 2012 right? Research Division</strong> I'm sorry I meant 2013.
So in 2013 those synergies should be separate from our cost reduction plans.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
I just wanted to be clear on that.
I don't mean to caution but I have a hard time forecasting out the quarters and now we're talking about cost reductions in 2013 and what I would say is right now we are plans would be to have it be incremental and that assumes that the economy looks something reasonable.
But good lord knows.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Understood.
Thank you and last question is on the acquisition front.
Are you thinking you would be looking at more bolt-on opportunities this year? Or are you really just kind of targeting that debt paydown at this stage? Well I think what we would say is we ought to be able to do both.
I mean last year we did 2 nice little bolt-ons and still paid down $200 million of debt from plus from operations.
So the focus is to get the debt down to our ratios.
Now when we make the acquisitions we pick up some EBITDA.
So what I'm trying to do is get the ratio into that -- between 2.5 and 3 right? So the little bolt-on acquisitions don't take us off of that path.
Your next question comes from George Staphos from Bank of America.
It's Benjamin Wong sitting in for George George is traveling.
Just 2 questions.
On new products you had the nice win recently with the CUK carton and Kraft.
Can you comment about how you feel about new products in 2012? Are there any other possible launches this year? Yes there are.
What I would simply say is that the whole concept of using solid fiber to replace some of these litho-lam carton is a good play for us.
It's not only a good play for us it's a good play for other people in the space.
I just hope we get our unfair share of that pie.
But I like the trends I like what -- how CUK performs from a property standpoint versus other substrates makes me feel very positive heading into 2012.
There are lots of things we're working on a number of things we've already done.
Much smaller in scope but nonetheless we probably added another 9 000 to 10 000 tons of new products in that space as we've started this year.
So Kraft was great.
We love the Capri Sun.
We've had an incredible partner with those guys on that but that's not the only thing we're working on in those kind of new product opportunities.
Okay we'll keep a look out for them.
And then just based on your comments it seems you would be in a position to return value to shareholders pretty soon.
Can you talk about your preference towards either dividends or buybacks or both? Well what I would say is we've been returning shareholder value at this point of time since the stock has responded and so you're talking about specifically the potential of using cash as a direct dividend payment back to shareholders.
And what I would tell you is that's not a 2012 thing for us.
I mean we took a $200 million worth of debt reduction we've got to get done to get down to the right credit ratio for us that's certainly one of a number of things we'll have to think through as we get into 2013 but right now I'm sort of focused on the things that are right in front of us simply because it really is in this economy all about execution.
Your next question comes from Mark Wilde with Deutsche bank.
Research Division</strong> I wondered if you can give us just a little more color on sort of the dynamics of acquiring and integrating Delta into your business? And sort of where those synergies will come from in just broad terms? Sure I'd be glad to.
So if you think about our Flexible business before Mark it was a complete converting business right? And those margins were trending at 7% to 8% or something like that.
What Delta Natural Kraft allows us to do is to take the Pine Bluff Arkansas mill and balance production between that mill and our West Monroe facility because you may -- I think you are aware that we have a bag machine in West Monroe.
We don't talk about it much but paper machine #5 is the bag line there.
But it’s sort of the sub-optimized mix because this is  the only thing we can do.
We have the opportunity not to -- mix manage and make and sell internally a higher value product than we are currently making out of West Monroe and stop purchasing it on the outside of that expensive paper.
That cash and that EBITDA all towards directly to Graphic Packaging.
So in much like we did with Altivity acquisition so think about the same thing we did in integrating those cartons and those tons into our business had a huge impact on EBITDA and cash flow.
Then the second thing is Mid-America Packaging had 3 converting facilities and we had a number of more as you well know.
We don't need all those so we're integrating those and moving -- relocating that business to lower-cost facilities much like we did with Altivity.
So if you put all that together along with the purchase you can imagine Graphic Packaging had more purchasing power than Delta Natural Kraft did.
We were a stronger company we bought more financially more stable.
So the purchasing savings sort of a newer soon as those contract expires.
So if you sort of think of the split maybe 25% is plant smaller portion is purchasing and then a big part of it is paper integration just like Altivity.
And that's sort of where the $20 million comes from.
So really more of a time question than -- I think we're going to get it.
Yes we're going to get it.
It's just we've got to be -- we've got to get it when the contracts allow us to do so.
Research Division</strong> And just in general terms Dave kind of what's the timing on those contract roll-offs? Most of them come off by the fourth quarter of '12.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of D&amp;A in the new Flexible segment.
Can you give us that number? We are looking at each other right now so I guess the answer is -- we're not sure we'll have to get back to you.
I don't have it the fingertip  depreciation amortization of the new thing.
We'll let you know Mark.
Research Division</strong> That's fine.
I just wanted a question about that business.
Pine Bluff is a fairly old mill and I'm just curious what type of capital needs you may have identified at Pine Bluff over the next say 3 to 5 years? What we've identified is going into this year we've already put in -- we're going to spend about $20 million okay to get to capture those synergies.
And included in that $20 million is enough money to bring up those that mill up to Graphic Packaging standards.
And currently we have our mill people looking at that mill and they're identifying areas of improvement where we can get productivity improvement beyond what we have built into the $20 million run rate for synergies.
Research Division</strong> Do you have -- Dan do you have just a kind of general sense of what type of stuff that's -- It's $6 million.
It's about $6 million is what we'll have to -- -- to $20 million.
Incremental.
And if you -- more and get more money for it using our hurdle rates we'll end up doing it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then another question.
I wonder if you can talk little just a bit about what you see going on in the bleach board market.
There have been some reports said that market is a little bit soft right now.
I think the backlogs have come down.
Well only thing I know about bleach is that we buy it.
And so what I would tell you is that our bleach board business has been okay.
Now when I say that Mark you know that we do a fair amount of substitution from our bleached board business into CNK.
So I say that the applications that we're selling into are still there and they seem strong but we don't necessarily use -- we don't necessarily use as much bleach as we used to into those end-use applications.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last question this Sierra Pacific business that you bought.
Did they do any of that sort of bag and box business out there? No.
Graphic actually does some.
We do bag -- you're talking wine right? Research Division</strong> Yes exactly.
Because I cover the Smarvard-Kappa guys and they love that business.
They've been talking about how that's kind of growing worldwide.
They don't have any presence here.
So I was just curious what you were seeing.
Yes we are in that -- now I'm surprised that you are a bag and box wine drinker but the reality is that we are in that business on the West Coast with the legacy graphic facilities and Sierra Pacific was out there.
We have a lesser -- they have specific assets left to hammer out there in our facility that we purchased in Sierra Pacific in Norville.
So we're in that space.
Okay remember we're all value guys Dave.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Can we just talk about how to think about the EBITDA bridge for '12? If we assume that price cost is even and you normally get $60 million of productivity plus you have the benefit of the Sierra Pacific acquisition for the entire year plus incremental CUK volume are we thinking the EBITDA is at $50 million in 2012 versus '11? We sort of as you well know do not give guidance on EBITDA for the quarter -- I'm sorry for the year.
What I would say is that and it's obvious as cryptic as I can what I would say is I like our trends year-on-year in EBITDA.
I don't know what the inflation price curve will actually be.
You guys are saying at all -- I don't really know.
It's pretty early in the year to figure out what that's going to look like because who knows what OCC inflation is going to be in the second half of the year.
I hope that's a flat -- I'm guessing it's probably more like what we saw this year which is we were still a little bit negative in 2011.
I would think it would be a little bit as well.
I think we'll get a little bit of bump from the new product activity in the overall process and performance will be in that $60 million $70 million.
So I think it moves directionally good but whether it's $40 million or $50 million I'm not going to -- but I will tell you is that we feel pretty comfortable with our projections on cash flow the $200 million despite the refinancing costs of about $25 million and the increased boiler investment in Georgia we still think $200 million of debt reduction is doable.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful David.
If you think about the M&amp;A pipelines for the business are you seeing more opportunities on the converting paperboard side? On the flexible side? And do you have a number that you want to spend on bolt-on acquisitions in 2012? We don't really target a number.
What I would tell you is that I like the things we did with Sierra Pacific.
Those are $50 million to $60 million companies in the geographically or end-use sector.
That's what we're going to be focusing on.
So if there's some integration there or they're regionally advantageous for us and I think those guys are out there right? Sierra Pacific has really been a very good acquisition.
We brought a good asset we brought a great team who -- and they all stayed.
Allen Ennis and his team they stayed and they've grown that business.
So those kinds of things are what we're looking for.
It takes a while though.
Allen and I started talking about that a long time ago.
So it's kind of hard to project year-on-year but we do think there are opportunities out there and we will be smart about it.
It needs to be accretive for Graphic Packaging but that's our goal.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Thanks and last question for Dan what is the other cash items that we should be thinking about? Do you have a number for cash taxes working capital and any incremental cash costs that you expect to incur in order to realize the synergies for DNK? Yes we expect cash taxes to be about $10 million.
Working capital we're looking for improvement there but if I was a betting man -- may I say based on the growth of our business I think we're main pretty much neutral where we are today with the working capital and did you have one other item? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Incremental cash costs in order to realize synergies from DNK? Well we've included that in our projection to come up with the $200 million.
I mean there's about $20 million in total that we're going to spend either through some type of severance payments or in terms of our CapEx.
And at this time there are no additional questions.
So then including -- concluding remarks.
So we thank everybody for listening in and we'll talk to next quarter.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Robin and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Graphic Packaging First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to our host for today Mr.
Kevin Crum Assistant Treasurer.
You may begin sir.
Thanks Robin.
Welcome to Graphic Packaging Holding Company's first quarter 2012 earnings call.
Commenting on the results this morning are David Scheible the company’s President and CEO; and Dan Blount Senior Vice President and CFO.
To help you follow along with today's call we have provided a slide presentation which can be accessed by clicking on the Q1 earnings' webcast link on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.graphicpkg.com.
I would like to remind everyone that statements of our expectations in this call constitute forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements including but not limited to statements relating to the effect of the combination with Delta Natural Kraft and Mid-America Packaging completion of the Macon biomass boiler project recovery of raw material inflation costs consumer demand and pricing trends capital expenditures cash pension contributions and pension expense depreciation and amortization interest expense income tax rates debt and leverage reduction performance improvement and cost reduction initiatives are based on currently available information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's present expectations.
These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to the company's substantial amount of debt inflation of and volatility in raw material and energy costs cutbacks in consumer spending that could affect demand for the company's products continuing pressure for lower cost products and the company's ability to implement its business strategies including productivity initiatives and cost reduction plans.
Undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements as such statements speak only as of the date on which they are made and the company undertakes no obligation to update such statements.
Additional information regarding these and other risks is contained in the company's periodic filings with the SEC.
David I'll turn it over to you.
Thanks Kevin.
Good morning everyone.
We're pleased with our first quarter results and the way in which we position the business for continued growth in what continues to be a sluggish operating environment.
What seems to be increasingly important in our market is capitalizing on strong secular trends within the food and beverage product categories that create pockets of opportunity for growth.
We are investing capital people and fixed resources to change our end-use share positions in some of these growing areas while protecting our core business at the same time.
A really good example of this effort revolves around our Carol Stream Illinois carton plant where during this quarter we invested to reconfigure the focus of the plant towards our growing pasta-packaging sector.
This facility is well situated near our Midwest CRB mills and many pasta producers.
Pasta has not been a large category for us in the past but it continues to grow in a very difficult economy while other categories like frozen pizza and cereal have yet to show significant recovery.
We significantly increased our position in this market based on our investments we have made and we will continue to do so going forward.
We'll focus on our performance improvements.
We had a good quarter.
We achieved $17 million of additional benefits in Q1.
We are also investing in new product development to help our customers differentiate their products lower their distribution costs and improve their sustainability metrics throughout their entire supply chain.
By doing these things we are expanding our addressable market and gaining end-use market share to drive sales growth.
Net sales in the quarter increased 7% to $1.1 billion and adjusted EBITDA increased 5% to $150 million.
Strong operating performance and cost reductions along with higher pricing and favorable volume mix more than offset higher input costs during the quarter.
You should also note that because we released our NOL valuation allowance in Q4 of last year during -- beginning this quarter we began to use a higher tax rate which impacted our reported earnings per share.
We still have over $1 billion of net operating losses that limits our actual cash income taxes.
But for reporting purposes we are now using a more normalized tax rate.
For full year 2012 we expect this rate to be approximately 39%.
Applying this rate to the first quarter of last year adjusted net income would have been $18 million or roughly $0.05 per diluted share.
This EPS compares to $0.06 per share we generated this year.
Strength in our balance sheet and capital structure continues to be top priorities.
We generated $33 million of operating cash flow in the quarter and reduced our total net debt by $349 million over the past year.
We also entered into a $2 billion amended and restated senior secured credit facility.
We used the new facility plus cash on hand to repay approximately $1.7 billion of B and C term loans that were due in May 2014.
We are very pleased to have completed the refinancing entirely in the pro rata bank market and appreciate the confidence the 31 commercial banks and Farm Credit system demonstrated in us with the new financing.
I'd also like to thank our past institutional lenders for their support of Graphic Packaging.
The new credit facility provides us with attractively priced financing and gives us the financial flexibility necessary to meet our operating and strategic goals.
Strong operating performance continues to drive bottom line improvement.
These performance initiatives along with strategic investments in the business continue to drive cost reduction.
In the first quarter we spent nearly $42 million to upgrade our facilities and optimize our asset base.
The building of our biomass boiler in Macon Georgia mill is progressing well and we still expect that it will come online mid next year.
This is about an $80 million to $85 million project of which we expect to receive a tax incentive rebate of approximately 30% of that cost after the project is completed and online.
The boiler will make the mill self-sufficient from an electrical power and steam generation standpoint thereby reducing energy cost and improving profitability.
Our paperboard mills had another very strong quarter driven by improvement initiatives in energy operating efficiencies and fixed cost.
We produced approximately 16 000 more tons of board in the first quarter while not building inventory and therefore converting a higher percentage of this board internally.
The mills also benefited from a higher mix of CUK board.
Stronger demand for CUK is being driven by new customer wins and substitution trends to our solid CUK fiber carton which offers superior strength great qualities as compared for example to a traditional Litho-laminated corrugated product.
As I mentioned in the last call we began supplying this product in the growing juice pouch market late last year and volumes continue to ramp up.
We are excited about other customer wins and the long-term growth strategy for this packaging application.
Market demand for CUK applications continues to be strong and we expect this trend to continue as we expand CUK's addressable end-use market.
Blue-collar unemployment however still remains high which generally continues to negatively impact demand trends for CRB-based cartons like cereal and snacks.
We have yet to recover to pre-2009 demand levels in these markets.
And so we'll continue to balance our supply and inventory of CRB through disciplined production and purchases from other CRB producers.
Let's talk about folding cartons.
The volume dynamics in our folding carton business where we saw a 2.3% increase in the first quarter are improving.
The increase was largely driven by new business wins such as juice pouch cartons and end market share gains in pasta and food service.
We are seeing some nice growth in our food service business as a result of new product innovation and substitution trends.
Food retailers are looking for cost-effective substitutes for plastic-related products.
Many of our new paper-based containers offer superior performance and return compared to traditional plastic products.
The cereal and frozen pizza markets however remain challenged in the first quarter.
ACNielsen data estimated that volumes in these categories decreased 3% and 11% respectively in the quarter.
The at-home frozen pizza category continues to be challenged by competitive delivery pizza prices.
New pasta sales as I mentioned.
Were very strong as run rates began to approach their full levels in our -- across our converting facilities.
Let's talk about beverage.
Industry volume trends across the canned beverage markets increased on a year-over-year basis in the first quarter.
According to the Can Manufacturers Institute total beverage can shipments increased 1.4% in the first quarter with soft drink increasing 0.9% and beer increasing 2.4%.
These results were significantly better than the beverage can shipment decline of 5% that we experienced in the fourth quarter.
Graphic Packaging's beverage business performed well in the first quarter with sales increasing in the mid- to high-single digits driven by higher pricing and better volume.
Volume in beer was not only solid in the craft market which continues to be good but also showed encouraging signs from the big brands as well.
Beer was good in Q1.
Our international beverage business performed exceptionally well with sales up 11%.
Our business in Europe remains good despite some of the macroeconomic challenges in that market and trends in both Mexico and Asia were positive contributors to the volume in Q1.
Flexible Packaging is sort of a different story.
We continue to see very little change in this segment as the reliance on construction and industrial manufacturing sectors remain challenged.
Excluding the incremental volumes from the addition of Delta Natural Kraft and Mid-American packaging acquisition volumes on our legacy business were off approximately 8% versus last year.
As I mentioned earlier activities related to the joint venture with Delta Natural Kraft and Mid-America Packaging should enhance both the growth and profit profile of this business.
Integration of these businesses remains [indiscernible].
We announced the closure of our Twinsburg Ohio bag facility and absorbed some cost related to that activity in Q1.
We are also making modest investments of capital in the Pine Bluff Arkansas mill that will increase efficiency and great flexibility necessary for higher levels of integration as we move into 2013.
There were really minimal synergies in the first quarter but we continue to believe double-digit EBITDA margins are achievable in this business in 2013 as we complete the larger part of the integration activity.
Let's talk about pricing.
Pricing inflation for the quarter we saw a benefit from higher pricing while cost inflation remained in line with expectations.
Net pricing increased $13 million in the quarter and was driven predominantly by the reset mechanisms in our contracts that adjust pricing up or down based on previous period changes in inflationary cost.
Included in this $13 million was a $6 million one-time payment of rebates and incentive to customers.
We really expect pricing to remain positive for the full year 2012.
Commodity cost input inflation totaled $23 million for the quarter.
The primary drivers year-on-year were externally purchased board for both paperboard as well as our multi-wall bag inks and coatings chemicals resin and for first time roundwood was higher as a result of wet weather in the Southeast.
This trend of course is not expected to continue for roundwood.
Freight costs were also up year-over-year as a result of higher diesel fuel and elevated oil prices drove surcharges and secondary fiber price decline on a year-over-year basis it remained relatively stable over the past several months in an average of roughly $135 per quarter.
This is down from the high scene in Q3 of 2011 which it -- when it approached almost $200 a ton.
Decline in natural gas prices also provided a buffer to overall inflation in the quarter.
We are now seeing spot natural gas pricing below $2 per MMBtu for our Louisiana mills.
We should continue to capture the benefit of these lower secondary fiber and natural gas prices as newer inventory gets converted into finished cartons and moves through our system.
Looking forward we had a solid first quarter.
We built on 2011 results and we are well-positioned to continue growing the business in 2012.
The spread between price and cost price and cost reduction inflation should be positive in 2012 and we expect to see continued expansion in our margins.
Reducing debt strengthening the capital structure remains key initiatives and we will continue running our business to drive cash flows and improve our credit profile.
We will remain diligent in managing our inventories through production and purchasing and are not looking to build inventory that we cannot sell.
Some of our end markets remain relatively weak but others are strong and showing better signs of recovery.
That's the environment we are operating in today.
It's a very secular-driven market where there are pockets of strength and weakness across the different categories.
We'll continue to adapt and grow and invest in our business accordingly.
We are investing more resources in the sectors which remain healthy and make sense for us to be a larger player such as pasta food service craft beer and litho-lam substitution while protecting our core markets at the same time.
We will also continue to optimize our asset base around our customers' needs and offer new and unique packaging solutions to help customers differentiate their products lower their cost and improve their sustainability metrics.
We'll accomplish these goals both through direct investment and potentially smaller strategic acquisitions that enhance our position globally.
With that I'll turn the call over to Dan for a more detailed discussion of the financial results.
Thanks David and good morning everyone.
David covered the operational highlights of the quarter.
I'll focus on the financial results.
My comments track our posted presentation.
But let's start with Q1 financial highlights on Page 8.
Taking a look at the first quarter we see net sales up 6.7% or $67 million.
The EBITDA increased 5.1% to $150 million.
Net operating cash flow increased by $26 million to $33 million.
And after normalizing the income tax rate adjusted net income increased $6.4 million or a $0.01 a share.
In terms of the tax rate adjustment that you see as David did I'll remind you that in the fourth quarter of 2011 we recorded a value for our NOL tax shield on the balance sheet.
This accounting change has no impact on our cash tax obligation as we will continue to not pay U.S.
federal income tax until the NOL is fully consumed.
However we now record nominal income tax expense to our P&amp;L.
The offset to the expense is the tax asset set up on the balance sheet.
In Q1 you will note that the tax rate at 43% was unusually high.
During the quarter the rate was affected by some special international tax adjustments.
Going forward the tax rate will normalize and we will be in the 38% to 39% range for our full year 2012.
To provide comparable financials we adjusted 2011 quarterly results to compensate for the tax rate change.
Overall you will see when we review the sales and earnings comparisons the main drivers of the net income and EBITDA improvement include revenue growth improved performance particularly in our mills and lower interest expense.
Please be advised as has been our practice we expect the results for nonrecurring debt refinancing and acquisition integration charges.
This quarter there are 2 such items to point out.
First as a result in refinancing $8.9 million of transaction cost mostly connected to the old loan were written off.
The second adjustment of $3.5 million relates to the write-down on several assets plus expenses related to the integration of Delta Natural Kraft and Mid-America Packaging.
Moving to the sales comparison on Slide 9.
We see the 6.7% growth in revenues.
Volume mix was the largest driver of the top line increase contributing $54 million.
Our Paperboard Packaging segment increased 4.6% as we benefited from share gains and new product introductions.
As David mentioned we continue to increase our addressable market by targeting corrugated packaging that can be replaced with better performing and lower cost CUK applications.
In the Flexible Packaging segment revenues increased 17.8% due to the business combination with Delta Natural Kraft and Mid-America Packaging.
Now let's talk a little more about pricing because this is really a confusing subject.
The $13 million increase in pricing is the result of realizing $19 million of benefit principally from contractual inflation recovery.
This is net.
If you net out $6 million for the one-time incentives and rebates paid to customers you'll arrive at the $13 million.
The rebates and incentives do not repeat this year.
And as a result we expect pricing to be higher in the remaining quarters.
Now overall if you look at our cost price spread we incurred $23 million of input inflation and recovered $19 million in price.
It's relatively in balance.
The rebate incentive payment is categorized as price but it is really a payment to reward for superior performance to certain customers.
We really like making these types of payments because these are based on win-win situations so the customer benefits as well as Graphic Packaging benefits.
Now turning to the EBITDA bridge on Slide 10.
We see a year-over-year EBITDA increase of $7 million to $150 million.
Not only did we improve performance in Q1 but we also made strong progress with bringing new converting assets online and on-boarding the new product additions that David talked about earlier.
We incurred approximately $3 million of startup costs.
However we are already seeing margins approaching our expectations as it disintegrates into our normal production routine.
Looking at the detail of the EBITDA bridge we realized $13 million of higher price that we already detailed earlier.
$8 million was contributed by volume growth in our Paperboard Packaging segment.
We also discussed this earlier.
This contribution was net of the on-boarding cost.
Therefore we expect margins to increase in future periods.
Input inflation was $23 million and David referenced the key drivers.
We performed well in the execution of our cost-cutting initiatives and delivered $17 million of net benefit.
We are clearly on track for the $60 million to $80 million of cost reduction we guided to for 2012.
But before we move to margins an additional comment about input cost inflation.
Although we did experience higher cost for wood primarily in West Monroe due to the wet spring we have seen a pullback in the cost of certain inputs including secondary fiber energy purchased board and craft paper.
Given our inventory cycle time and cycle accounting method the benefit of these lower input costs did not help Q1 as they roll through our P&amp;L on a 2- to 3-month lag.
In other words the benefits from the lower cost input is currently hung up on the balance sheet.
Therefore we expect our input inflation rate to moderate from a level experienced in Q1 over the next couple of quarters.
Now briefly turning to EBITDA margin by business segment we see Paperboard Packaging margins increase slightly to 17.3%.
While the Flexible Packaging business does not significantly impact our results because it represents less than 10% of the EBITDA I do want to comment on its margin decline to 3.9%.
The decline was not a surprise to us as the mild winter caused the decline in the agri feed [ph]  business and inflationary increases from paper and resin inputs are not expected to be recovered until later this summer.
The main point I would like to make is that volatility with Flex is the primary reason we executed the business combination.
As a reminder the combination allows us to lower the cost of converting and more importantly vertically integrate converting with paper in-sourced from the acquired Kraft paper mill.
While we see performance in Flex improving somewhat throughout 2012 as we recover inflation and consolidate our converting footprint the real step change occurs in 2013 as we substitute below-market contracts by in-sourcing paper to our converting plants.
We continue to see Flex becoming a more consistent low-double digit EBITDA margin business once the integration is complete.
With that update on Flex let's turn back to the big picture with some forward comments about the second quarter.
Overall we are optimistic about continued performance improvement in Q2 as customer rebates and incentives have been settled.
They're paid for.
Growth from new products should be produced more efficiently as we have worked through startup issues.
Inflation related to input costs should moderate and we expect a normal seasonality pickup.
Now turning to Slide 11.
Let's look at cash flow debt and liquidity.
First quarter net cash provided by operations improved $26 million to $33 million.
Cash flow from reduced working capital and stronger operating performance drove the improvement.
CapEx increased $5 million to $42 million in the quarter.
The investment focused on the Macon boiler mill productivity improvements and expanding volume opportunities by building new packaging machinery for customers in Europe and China.
In March as David commented we were pleased to be able to execute a 5-year $2 billion facility entirely in the commercial bank market.
The facility consists of a $1 billion revolver and a $1 billion term loan.
The loans were initially priced at LIBOR plus 225 and are subject to a pricing grid based on our leverage ratio.
As our leverage declines to targeted levels the spread over LIBOR will decline as well.
The new facility provides us with greater cash management flexibility allowing us to further reduce interest costs.
Additionally we were able to enhance covenant baskets including improving the company's ability to pay dividends repurchase shares and make other investments.
The facility has 2 financial maintenance covenants a leverage ratio and interest coverage test and we are well within compliance with both.
Debt [ph] leverage remained relatively stable during the quarter at 3.5x with net debt increasing $28 million during the quarter as to -- as compared to an increase of $30 million last year.
Considering that we spent over $20 million related to the refinancing the year-over-year comparison is quite positive.
Liquidity at the end of the quarter was in excess of $500 million.
Our targeted leverage ratio continues to be in the 2.5x to 3x range and we expect to be near the top end of that range by year end.
And now to conclude let's move to Slide 12 and I'll summarize our guidance for 2012.
Capital expenditures will be in the $190 million to $210 million range with spending focused on completing the bulk of the biomass boiler spend and completing the investment needed to drive the integration of Delta Natural Kraft.
Cash pension contributions will be in the 40 -- between $40 million and $70 million for the year.
Pension expense of around $40 million.
Depreciation and amortization in the $260 million to $200 million -- $280 million range.
Interest expense of $115 million to $130 million.
Net reduction of $200 million inclusive of the $22 million spent to refinance our debt.
And finally our net leverage ratio should end the year around 3x.
And with that I will turn the call back to the operator for the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question.
I know the Flex business is pretty small but you got more cost cutting in the pipe and whatnot and pricing coming in in the back half should we expect profit -- to actually earn a profit in Q2 and things improve a little bit in the back half? I think what you'll see Philip -- is you'll improvement in the second quarter.
For instance we expect some recovery in the price area on that in particular.
And we expect the business to continue to improve throughout the year.
I mean we have already announced the shutdown of our plant in Ohio and we expect to start to reap some of the benefits on the back half of the year.
You will get purchasing savings flowing in and that type of thing so I don't know that we have a second quarter forecast by segment that we're going to talk about but your question for the year yes we expect to be profitable for the year.
Just a reminder that 2013 is a big year for that as we in-source the paper supply.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I got you.
And then just on the demand side I mean you guys are obviously taking share on the CUK side and that's very helpful to your numbers but you're seeing kind of a bifurcation of like demand trends in food versus beer.
I just want to get your sense on what's driving that and have your customers stepped up promotional activity and have they throttled back a little bit on pricing? Well I mean that's a better question for Kellogg's general mills and Kraft and I'm reading the same thing you are and they continue to say that they're -- the pricing -- they've raised the price on those products and it's created some demand and they expect to address that.
And so I'll leave that to them.
What I would say is that in the early part of the recession the food business held up better than beverage.
Now you've got a little bit of recovery in some of the industrial sectors so -- and it's been hot in [indiscernible] this week so beer and soft drink are up.
I don't think -- we're not projecting a huge change or turnaround in things like cereal or in frozen pizza but I'm a great fan of my customers.
So I'm hoping that those demand trends change.
What we're trying to do is make sure that we are skating to where the puck is going.
And that's why we've made investments in some of these other sectors or segments that do seem to be pretty more resilient in this economy than cereals snacks and pizza for example.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I got you.
And then just lastly I know one of the big carbonated soft drink companies has been vocal about reinvesting in their brand and whatnot but I haven't seen much flow-through.
Have you seen that marketing or promotional activities pick up for CSD? Let me say without [Audio Gap] yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Matthew Wooten sitting in for Ghansham today.
Acknowledging that it is difficult to predict are your chemical costs downwardly biased in the near-term [Audio Gap] I know you spoke about some of your other input costs.
I think the primary driver of our chemical cost really was TiO2.
If you look across the board that's the one that was the most volatile on our stage actually latex and so on and so forth was really pretty flat.
It is really TiO2 and that's [Audio Gap] I think our projection for TiO2 is to continue to increase somewhat throughout the year.
But on a year-on-year basis this is probably the biggest change you'll see in TiO2 vis-à-vis 2011 input costs.
Research Division</strong> And then following onto that is it possible for you guys to substitute away from TiO2? I know that some people in some other industries have been able to do that.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And then the last question is once your leverage ratios have been reached and assuming that you can do so in 2012 have you started to think about preferred methods of free cash flow allocation in 2013 whether it's M&amp;A buybacks or dividends? Yes we have.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Stivaletti with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 things.
One is you talked about acquisitions possibly I just wondered if you could put some context on that possibly in terms of potential size and what types of things you might want to look at and would you consider anything more in Flexible or would that be out of the question? Well those are really good questions.
But the answer is the same.
I like what we did in 2011.
As you saw the 2 acquisitions probably we're $80 million to $100 million in total top line revenue.
They were relatively good acquisitions.
So that's sort of the right thing and they were both in areas where we felt like we were strategically shoring up the business.
The Flexible thing Dan talked about.
You remember the one we did last year with Sierra Pacific was to be able to get into craft beer.
So those are the kinds of things that we're looking at.
And we have an active list of those things going on right now.
So it would be those things that we can get some synergies additional integration geographically important acquisitions.
And they are out there.
They are relatively small.
They're bolt-ons.
But they make a good impact on top line and bottom line because we can integrate them pretty quickly.
Research Division</strong> And the other question I have was just now that you've done a lot of work with your bank -- the bank side of your debt structure I wondered where your -- what your current thinking was given where your bonds are trading about doing some refinancing there? It looks like there's obviously a lot of opportunity there.
If you look at our bonds I mean they've become callable at least the first bonds in 2013.
So we'd look at the economics at that point whether or not we thought the economics were attractive to call that bond and reissue some other type of debt whether it's the bonds or something else.
But probably for 2012 it's not [indiscernible] we are aware that those bonds are higher cost interest at this point in time.
We clearly understand that.
But it's really not a good return to be able to do anything other than wait until they are callable and then we'll deal with them with wherever the financial markets look like in '13.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I joined the call a little bit later so I apologize if you already covered this.
I guess the first question I have within CUK would it be possible to somehow size the interest appetite from your customers in terms of using the substrate in new applications relative to what you would have seen say 6 months ago? Just some sort of frame of reference in terms of the new product activity and penetration that you're seeing in that substrate guys.
What I would say is clearly we've had some large wins on the CUK substitution side and we talked about those.
I will tell you that George some of those are really things we've been working on for a long period of time.
And some of that is kind of chunky right? You work on it for a long period of time.
There's intellectual property involved.
There's a lot of transition in -- or transition work that needs to be done.
I don't think that any -- I don't think that the people making CUK right now are necessarily having a difficult time selling the CUK.
It's a good substrate.
We can sort of attack SBS on the top.
And with the caliper improvement we can address the CRB as well.
So it's a good substrate model for us.
We have a fair amount of focus in that business because it's a more positive mix when we sell CUK.
But we are not -- and so we're in good balance.
We made 16 000 more tons in the quarter most of that was all CUK and they all got sold year-on-year.
So I feel good about those trends on a go-forward basis for the new product activity.
And that's where a lot of our focus is really on expanding the CUK pie if you will.
Research Division</strong> David is the gestation period on these sorts of arrangements a couple of years 3 years 9 months? It really depends.
On something as large as the work that we're doing on the pouch it's taken a couple of years to get that thing work.
But a lot of Litho-lam things that are going on in club store I mean that can be 60 to 90 days.
It's a better model.
It saves a lot of cost.
And the transition costs are pretty easy for customers so they just sort of substitute right under their packaging line.
It's when we need to modify the packaging line to be able to use a different footprint for that fiber.
It takes a little bit longer.
So they're all over the board.
But I will tell you this is not -- we had a good quarter on substitution across the board.
And if I -- we just did our new product development quarterly review and I like the pipeline.
I like what's in there vis-à-vis substitution.
And this is substitution that's not necessarily driven at competitors in our current space.
It's really more addressable.
It's expanding an addressable market and that is stickier.
It's harder to do.
But we also keep it a lot easier because you're really changing the economics and the environmental spot.
So that's our primary focus not really so much CRB and SBS.
Research Division</strong> Dave one last question on that and then one on Macon is there a way to quantify broadly what the new pipeline looks like there versus say what would have been the case a year ago? I'm just trying to think about it from our -- where we sit how to project this going forward? That's the reason for the question.
Yes I mean we certainly internally have a very good feel for that.
But we have a lot of customer interaction there and I would be uncomfortable giving you that data.
We just -- it would require a lot more confidential disclosure than what we are willing to do in that space.
Research Division</strong> Okay understand that.
On Macon have any of the changes that have occurred in energy prices here in the last 6 to 12 months changed at all what you think the return improvement might be from the Macon biomass boiler project or not at all? Yes sure.
So you got to remember that Macon is really not -- is based on coal.
And you know probably better than me that the energy cost on coal still maintains pretty high.
And so our energy profile for Macon has not changed nearly as much as it has for West Monroe which is based on natural gas.
If you sort of think about for an investment similar in our West Monroe facility just on a relative scale natural gas would need to be somewhere around $7.50 to $8 to break even in a biomass investment in West Monroe.
But in Macon right now that biomass project is still very positive because it's coal-based.
The energy in Georgia is predominantly coal-based I should say.
And we buy that electricity from Georgia power which has other things going on.
They're building a couple of nukes.
I don't -- Paul Powers [ph] did not give me any break on energy cost in Georgia.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Taking into account all the puts and takes you guys have spoken to on the pricing side and the raw material inflation side so as we think about the balance of the year is price relative to your raw material inflation? Or are you looking at it to be largely flattish? If you mean -- you mean balance sort of? Research Division</strong> Yes so second quarter through the fourth quarter? I mean that's sort of of our view right now that pricing and inflation cost sort of balance.
Research Division</strong> And then on the volume side this is really the first quarter in many quarters where we see a nice positive contribution of both the top line and the EBITDA line so as we think about the balance of the year for volumes are we thinking about the sustainable number? Well first of all that's a 2-part question.
One is we actually have seen pretty good growth on volume and EBITDA in previous quarters so I'll leave that alone.
What I would say on a go-forward basis is that yes I think we are cautiously optimistic.
It's so darn hard to forecast the macroeconomics.
I mean tell me what you think the second half on a macro basis is going to be and I will help you with the volume recovery.
But unemployment needs to continue to get better for our volumes to change materially.
To the extent that unemployment rates sort of stays where it is I think our -- the kind of volume gains that we've seen will be predominantly driven by new products and acquisitions with some secular demand improvement in beverage and some sectors of food.
But I don't expect frozen pizza and cereal to all of a sudden have huge changes in their volume trends.
I'd love it but I don't necessarily count on the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> David last question is there an early read you can provide on CapEx for 2013 especially on the context of you getting that rebate back on the biomass project and the capital associated with the biomass project being largely behind you after 2012? Our guidance on -- by no means we're barely giving you a view on 2012 but what I would say is our normalized CapEx numbers really are more around $150 million to $175 million.
That's sort of -- you can think of that sort of like $100 million or so of maintenance and then $50 million to $75 million for good cost reduction improvement projects.
It will be back at that sort of level in 2013.
It'll be strange to see because we will get a cash payment in 2013 from that.
But I don't -- I think you should think about ongoing CapEx in that $170 million range on an average basis.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Ariel sitting in for Phil.
First question is in terms of the demand trajectory throughout the quarter did you see any differences between January and let's say March where one was stronger than the other excluding any seasonal factors? It was totally sectoral.
So we definitely saw a stronger demand in beverage as we headed into the end of the quarter.
I would say the food business cereal pizza and so on and so forth was pretty much the same from January to February.
Backlogs didn't really change materially.
There's -- I mean I would say our backlogs are good.
We are solid.
We managed -- as you know as I said we made a fair amount of extra SUS tons and we sold them all.
The CRB tons were more challenging in the process so we sort of managed our inventory in that space.
Research Division</strong> And then early reads on April trends much of the same as in the first quarter? Yes I've learned a long time ago not to give you mid-month trends because it doesn't do any good.
What I will tell you is our backlogs are solid.
If we thought there was going to be some major change negative change in the quarter I'd be letting you know.
That's not what -- that's not our early look on the quarter.
At this time there are no audio questions.
I will now turn the call back over to Mr.
Crum for closing remarks.
Thank you Robin and thanks to everyone for listening.
We'll talk next quarter.
Thank you for your participation.
That does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Graphic Packaging Holding Company Second Quarter Earnings Call.
I would like to now introduce the conference Assistant Treasurer Kevin Crum.
Mr.
Crum go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Graphic Packaging Holding Company's second quarter 2012 earnings call.
Commenting on results this morning are David Scheible the company's President and CEO; and Dan Blount Senior Vice President and CFO.
To help you follow along with today's call we have provided a slide presentation which can be accessed by clicking on the Q2 earnings webcast link on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.graphicpkg.com.
I would like to remind everyone that statements of our expectations in this call constitute forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements including but not limited to statements relating to the effect of business combinations completion of the Macon biomass boiler project raw material inflation costs consumer demand and pricing trends capital expenditures cash pension contributions and pension expense depreciation and amortization interest expense income tax rates debt and leverage reductions performance improvements and cost reduction initiatives are based on currently available information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's present expectations.
These risks include but are not limited to the company's substantial amount of debt volatility in raw material and energy costs cutbacks in consumer spending that reduce demand for the company's products continuing pressure for lower cost products and the company's ability to implement its business strategies including productivity initiatives and cost reduction plans.
Undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements as such statements speak only as of the date on which they are made and the company undertakes no obligation to update such statements.
Additional information regarding these and other risks is contained in the company's periodic filings with the SEC.
David I'll turn it over to you.
Thanks Kevin.
Good morning everyone.
We're very pleased with our second quarter results and the strong benefits of our strategic initiatives are generating across the business.
While demand in some of our key end-use markets was down in the quarter and the overall operating environment remains sluggish we successfully drove increased volumes better margins and cash flow through a combination of new business wins productivity enhancements better asset optimization acquisition synergies and of course lower cost debt.
We continue to successfully invest in new innovative packaging that helps our customers differentiate their products lower their distribution costs and improve the sustainability metrics throughout the supply chain.
Our solid CUK fiber carton that was recently implemented in the juice pouch sector continues to gain momentum and is clearly a viable substitute to traditional litho-lam structures.
We're excited about additional customer wins this quarter in this space and a long-term potential of substrate substitution for our solid CUK fiber carton.
The convenience of our microwave packaging continues to experience strong consumer acceptance in new business sectors leading to new sales and margin contributions.
We have also capitalized on some of the sector trends across the food and beverage industry by making strategic acquisitions and investments in growing markets such as craft beer pasta and away-from-home markets such as fast food.
In total new business activity generated nearly $40 million of revenue in the second quarter versus the same period last year.
Productivity enhancement and asset optimization are driving improved margins even in a less-than-robust demand environment.
We generated $29 million of performance improvements in the second quarter.
Cost saving initiatives to reduce the use of energy fiber and wood and chemicals as well as plant consolidations are reducing our total operating costs.
Key investments including the expansion of our Perry Georgia plant and the closing of 3 older converting facilities within the last year contributed to an EBITDA margin increase of almost 200 basis points to 15.9% this quarter.
Both pricing and input inflation were relatively moderate and balanced in the quarter which means that our margin expansion was predominantly driven by performance improvements and return on capital investments made over the past few years.
The integration of Delta Natural Kraft and Mid-American Paper (sic) [Mid-America Packaging] is progressing nicely.
You will note we had roughly $5 million of integration costs in this quarter.
The Sierra Pacific acquisition has exceeded our synergy expectations.
More importantly Sierra Pacific has increased our exposure to the craft beer market.
Craft beer continues to be one of the fastest-growing areas in the entire beverage market and this is a space where we had very little exposure just a few years ago.
Debt reduction continues to be a critical value driver for Graphic Packaging.
And our focus on winning new business improving operating efficiencies and optimizing our capital structure over the past few years has allowed us to generate higher levels of cash flow used to delever the business and strengthen the balance sheet.
As of June 30 our net debt was approximately $2 billion and our net leverage ratio is down to 3.27x.
We generated $110 million of net cash from operating activities in the second quarter and reduced our net interest expense by $9 million or 25% from the same period last year.
Debt reduction remains a key priority and we are well on track to hit our net leverage ratio target of 2.5x to 3x.
Talking about Paperboard our mills had another very strong quarter driven by improvement initiatives predominantly in energy throughput efficiencies and fixed cost reduction.
We generated almost 7 000 additional tons of production in the second quarter and consumed this extra production in our carton plant.
The increased production also allowed us to better leverage our fixed costs and expand our margins.
The mills are benefiting from stronger demand for our CUK fiber board as a result of the new customer wins and substitution trends to this product.
The new volume allows us to better trim our machines increasing our output and yield which translates to lower per ton cost of production.
Just a note we remain on schedule with our biomass boiler investment in Macon Georgia.
The economic benefit of this project continues to be quite compelling as coal which is the primary source of purchase electricity in Georgia has continued to increase in cost.
The biomass boiler is expected to eliminate our reliance on purchased electricity.
In fact we anticipate being a supplier of electricity back to the grid when we come online in second quarter of 2013.
If I look at folding carton this business was relatively flat in the second quarter.
End market trends across some of our core food markets remain somewhat sluggish but we were able to offset most of this with new business in such areas as juice pouch cartons pasta and food service.
The cereal and frozen pizza markets which are 2 important markets to us remained challenged in the second quarter.
ACNielsen estimated that volumes for cereal decreased roughly 2% while frozen pizza decreased 3% in the quarter.
These trends are weak especially in historical terms but they were an improvement from the 3% and 11% decline for cereal and frozen pizza demand respectively we saw in the first quarter.
New sales from pasta packaging were very strong in the second quarter as a result of recent investments we made to reconfigure our carton plant in the Midwest.
While pasta has not been a large category for us in the past it remains one of the best-performing segments in the food industry and we invested resources to growing our end-use markets and are being successful doing so.
Industry volume trends across the can beverage market decreased on a year-over-year basis in the second quarter.
Weakness in soft drink more than offset the strength in the beer sector.
According to Can Manufacturers Institute total beverage can shipments decreased roughly 1.7% in the second quarter with soft drinks decreasing 3.8% and beer increasing 2.1%.
Graphic Packaging's beverage business performed well in the second quarter with sales increasing 3% driven primarily by beer.
Craft beer volume was once again very strong in the quarter and our Sierra Pacific acquisition continues to benefit from this trend.
ACNielsen also reports that sales of noncarbonated and energy drinks continue to be strong up 16.5% through the first half of this year.
We are well-positioned as a leading supplier of multi-packs to these markets and our specialty beverage sales were up 35% year-to-date.
Turning to our Flexible Packaging business.
We saw a slight pickup in shingle wrap demand resulting from the severe storms that ran through the Midwest and Eastern regions in the spring.
The multi-wall bag business however remains challenging.
Given the continued sluggish state of construction and industrial manufacturing segments this is likely to continue.
As I have mentioned the integration of Delta Natural Kraft and Mid-America Packaging is progressing on plan and we continue to target $20-plus million of synergies along with double-digit EBITDA margins in 2013 for this combined flexible business.
Now looking at pricing and inflation both were relatively moderate in the quarter.
Pricing was up $12 million and commodity input inflation was up roughly $6 million.
Higher pricing was driven by the reset mechanisms in our contracts that adjust pricing up or down based on changes in input raw material costs.
The increase in input costs resulted from higher priced chemicals ink coatings wood and freight.
In fact freight was the highest single increase and that freight cost is being driven predominantly by government regulatory changes which have reduced the allowable driving hours.
Looking ahead we expect pricing and input inflation to remain moderate and in balance for the remainder of the year with energy and fiber cost flat to 2011 and chemical prices edging up slightly.
Looking forward we had a good second quarter particularly given the operating backdrop driven by execution in new product commercialization and operating excellence.
I think we'd all like to see a pickup in the broader economy and end-market demand but with unemployment levels remaining elevated we're not expecting any tailwinds in our near-term outlook.
Demand in the food and beverage market remains very sector-driven with pockets of strength and weakness across different end-use categories.
We will continue to adapt and grow our business accordingly.
We're investing more resources in the sectors which remain healthy and make sense for us to be larger players such as pasta food service and craft beer and of course litho-lam substitution.
And we'll protect our core markets at the same time.
We had a very solid quarter running the business but there were a number of areas where we can improve our execution and we will build opportunities in the second half of the year to benefit our operating metrics.
As a reminder in the second half we will have roughly 20 days of planned maintenance downtime in our 2 virgin board mills.
The Macon outage will occur in Q3 and West Monroe will be taken down in Q4.
The West Monroe outage will also include the required biannual code outage to inspect and service the boilers.
Dan will discuss the financial implications on the back half of the year in just these few minutes.
We also continue to optimize our asset base around our customers' needs and offer new unique packaging solutions to our customers to differentiate their products lower their cost and improve their sustainability.
We will accomplish these goals both through direct investment and potentially through smaller strategic acquisitions that will enhance our position globally.
I'll now turn the call over to Dan for a more detailed discussion of the financial result.
Thanks David and good morning everyone.
David covered operational highlights of the quarter.
I'll focus on financial results.
My comments follow our posted presentation.
Let's start with financial highlights on Page 8.
Taking a look at second quarter operating performance we see net sales improve nearly 3% or $31 million.
EBITDA increased 17.5% to $176 million.
EBITDA margin increased by almost 200 basis points to 15.9%.
And after normalizing the income tax rate adjusted net income increased $19.5 million to $0.11 per share $0.05 per share better than the prior year.
The quarter itself as you can see is pretty straightforward but understanding how our tax rates have changed is a little more confusing.
So I want to spend some time upfront on that explanation.
You'll remember in the fourth quarter of 2011 we have recorded the value of our NOL tax shield on the balance sheet.
In conjunction beginning in 2012 we started recording normal income tax expense.
To provide comparative financials we adjusted quarterly results to compensate for the tax treatment change.
While the P&amp;L reflects tax expense on a cash basis we will continue to benefit from our $1.1 billion NOL and not pay U.S.
income taxes until the NOL is consumed.
I hope that overview has been helpful.
Let's turn to the core financials.
Overall you will see during the review of sales and earnings the main drivers of the bottom line improvement include revenue growth improved operating performance and lower interest expense.
Please note as has been our practice we adjusted results for certain nonrecurring charges.
The adjustment in this quarter was the add back of $5.2 million of expense primarily related to the integration of the Flexible Packaging acquisition.
Moving to sales comparison on Slide 9.
We see 3% growth to over $1.1 billion in second quarter revenues.
Volume growth of $25 million was the largest driver of the top line increase.
As David mentioned end-market trends across core markets remained sluggish but we were able to more than offset with new business principally from our continued success in corrugated replacement pasta and food service.
Additionally revenues in our Flexible Packaging segment increased 19% due to the business combination with Delta Natural Kraft and Mid-America Packaging.
The $12 million increase in pricing is a result of realizing inflation recovery as provided in our sales contracts.
As a reminder we recover inflation on an approximate 9-month lag.
Turning to the EBITDA bridge on Slide 10.
We see strong EBITDA of $176 million a $26 million improvement.
As David covered in detail the majority of the earnings -- quarterly earnings improvement resulted from both our success in securing new business in these challenging markets and continuing to drive cost reduction through plant rationalization converting asset upgrades and mill productivity investments.
Performance improvements totaled $29 million which brings the year-to-date total to a strong $46 million.
Year-to-date we have been able to accelerate the pace of cost reduction by completing the plant closings we began last year.
For the remainder of 2012 we expect to deliver an additional $25 million to $30 million of cost reduction which will bring the annual total into the $70 million to $80 million range.
The volume growth largely driven by new business achieved an average EBITDA margin of 20%.
This margin level is the result of our operating leverage as we utilized existing overhead and further optimized and integrated our paperboard production.
Lastly a comment about the relationship of pricing and inflation.
As David pointed out our contracts are designed to recover commodity inflation based on look-back calculations average 9-month look-back.
Over the longer term 2 to 3 years this methodology historically has shown that the amount of inflation and price recovery are comparable.
The favorable price cost spread in Q2 results from the decline in the inflation rate driven principally by lower costs for secondary fiber and energy.
Looking forward we expect as contracts adjust that pricing will be modified to reflect current commodity inflation levels.
Our view is that price and input cost inflation should be mostly in balance.
Salary and benefit inflation was a little over $8 million in the quarter.
Year-to-date we have incurred $17 million and expect to be around $35 million for the entire year.
Overall performance for the second quarter was strong and in line with our expectations for the year.
And looking forward to the remainder of 2012 see Slide 11 we want to provide additional guidance on the expected behavior of income tax expense and mill maintenance downtime.
Both of these expense categories are going to trend differently than they did in the prior year.
First income tax expense.
For 2012 we initially gave guidance that income tax expense would have an effective rate of around 39%.
Year-to-date income tax expense is running around 42% and we expect our rate will average 41% for the full year of 2012.
The reason for the change is that while our earnings have dramatically improved the improvement is principally driven by earnings growth in the United States.
A few international locations in Europe and other geographies are operating in a very weak economy and as a result are generating net losses.
In these locations there is no tax benefit available to partially offset the losses and reduce tax expense.
As the economies in these international locations improve we expect the effect of tax rate to normalize.
And as a reminder on a cash basis we utilize the NOL and pay no U.S.
income taxes.
Now I just mentioned Europe I'd like to provide a side comment.
Our exposure in Europe is minimal less than 5% of total company sales.
Our European management team has done a good job of reducing costs.
In the quarter European operational performance improved and exceeded our expectations.
Additionally while we have net losses in a couple of European locations Q2 cash flow generation was healthy as it significantly exceeded the prior year.
The biggest delta from first half to second half for us is going to center around the planned maintenance downtime in Q3 and Q4.
Our virgin mills maintenance cycle requires that on an every other year basis we perform more extensive maintenance on our recovery boilers the largest activity in 2012 being the cold outage in the West Monroe mill.
This means as we normally do that we will incur planned mill downtime in the second half of the year.
We schedule these outages to coincide with historical volume patterns particularly beverage season.
So very little mill maintenance downtime was taken in the first half of 2012.
To provide clarity here are the expected financial comparisons with 2011 and the first half of 2012.
Total expense from mill maintenance downtime in the second half of 2012 is expected to be approximately $25 million greater than the amount incurred in the first half of 2012.
On a year-over-year basis mill maintenance expense will be about $15 million greater in the second half of 2012 than the same period in 2011.
The $15 million represents approximately $10 million of normal every other year maintenance and $5 million of special mill equipment upgrades.
The expense includes cost of maintenance and unabsorbed overhead resulting from reduced production.
If you break it down by quarter we expect mill outage and other expenses to be approximately $12 million higher in Q3 over the prior year and Q4 expense is expected to be approximately $5 million greater.
Now turning to Slide 12 let's look at cash flow debt and liquidity.
Second quarter net cash provided by operations was a -- was solid at $110 million.
CapEx increased $5 million to $39 million in the quarter.
For the year we expect CapEx to be around $200 million or $30 million more than the prior year as investments continue to be focused on the Macon boiler and mill productivity improvements.
And as David mentioned we saw a 25% drop or a $9 million reduction in interest expense.
This drop was the result of declining debt balance and a reduction in our effective interest rate.
Year-to-date net debt reduction was $51 million and our net leverage ratio reduced to approximately 3.3x.
The debt reduction is net of the $22 million we spent to refinance the senior secured credit facility earlier this year.
In comparison net debt reduction during the first half of 2011 totaled $40 million.
We are on track to deliver $200 million to $220 million of net debt reduction this year.
Our target leverage ratio continues to be in the 2.5x to 3x range and we expect to be near the top end of that range by the end of this year.
Liquidity at the end of the quarter was an excess of $588 million.
And now to conclude let me just summarize the guidance.
In addition to the comments I had about the tax rate and the mill outages we see that capital expenditures will be in the $190 million to $210 million range with most of the expending as we said on the biomass boiler and completing the investment needed to drive these synergies based on the Delta Natural Kraft acquisition.
Pension expense contributions will be between $40 million and $60 million pension expense of around $40 million depreciation and amortization in the $260 million to $280 million range interest expense of $115 million to $125 million net debt reduction of $200 million to $220 million and finally our net leverage ratio should end the year around 3x.
And with that I'd like to turn the call back over to the operator for the question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] And at this time you do have a question from the line of Alex Ovshey.
Research Division</strong> Just a question for you around the SBS pricing.
It seems like that market is teetering on the edge of potentially maybe going out of bounds in the near term.
Do you have an outlook for SBS pricing for the back half of the year? And I know there's a lot of capacity in Asia that's coming online that could potentially be a competitive product to SBS.
Do you see any potential in the future to source some of your SBS needs out of Asia? Well I think our -- we're a net buyer of SBS as you well know.
So I mean our forecast for the second half of the year is that most board prices will be pretty flat.
So we really don't expect SBS pricing to be escalating.
I'm not particularly worried about the China stuff coming on board.
We do source some already but it's not really projected to be a huge impact here in the United States.
I've seen all the Rissy [ph] reports and so on and so forth.
We have a little bit different view.
Most of our stuff is food and beverage applications.
Most of our customers are not at all that excited about sourcing board from China in the food and beverage applications to the United States.
So while that may affect other things it doesn't really affect our business very much.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful Dave.
And then just on the productivity clearly coming in out of expectations for '12.
Is there any initial read that you have on what productivity will look like for you in '13 relative to what you're seeing currently in '12? Well I mean I think we've been pretty consistently in that $70 million to $80 million range.
You're going to have to think about the Delta Natural Kraft synergies which will come in.
And we've said those will be about $20 million.
Won't start really until January but they should come on pretty quickly in January not really much of a ramp up for them.
So I would say based on the investments that we're making that feels good.
I think Dan made some comments about the second half of the year.
We're doing some downtime in the mill.
We're taking a little bit of extra time to put some additional things in our mills to be able to continue drive productivity.
That's why there's a little extended downtime and that will all manifest itself in 2013.
So I feel good about $70 million to $80 million worth of cost takeout in '13.
Research Division</strong> Good to hear Dave.
And then last question for me as you approach the high end of your leverage range how do you see your capital allocation priorities changing next year? Well we're certainly talking about that internally.
I think Graphic as you well know is pretty conservative about that approach.
My comment to Dan is "Well let's get there." There's a lot of uncertainty in the forward markets.
I love our cash flow right now but we're going to sort of address that when we get closer to it.
I made in my comments we will continue to look to be acquisitive at least on the bolt-on side.
So we hope to be able to spend some of that cash like we have in the last year or 2 on smaller bolt-ons that work.
The remaining part of that cash flow for -- after debt reduction we'll have to talk about.
And at this time we do have a question from the line of Philip Ng.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The downtime you guys are taking in the back half any of that economic-related? No.
It's all around the planned maintenance.
I think you've been covering paper for long enough to know when you take a mill the size of Macon and West Monroe we've got to take the recovery boilers off-line cold and do the inspection every other year.
And that is extended downtime as you can well imagine going from it and coming back up.
So it will all around that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then in terms of the initiatives as a whole I mean they've done a pretty good job matching supply with demand for CRB but prices are down.
So I just want to get a sense are you concerned there is little more downside risk going forward? And just help me understand what the P&amp;L impact is this year? I mean given the lag is it more of a 2013-ish impact with the recent drop in CRB prices? Well I mean CRB pricing is down $30 $40 a ton I suppose.
And we will see -- we all some of that in our open market already.
In our current -- the carton pricing will probably not reflect any of that until the late fourth quarter or 2013 at best.
I mean we're still a net buyer of CRB so we haven't really had -- we have taken some downtime in our paperboard mills but it's really been around maintenance and that type of thing.
We really haven't had any extended downtime for market-related CRB or -- and certainly not for SUS.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But I mean overall I guess your comments earlier you feel pretty good that prices are stable and the market's still fairly balanced I think you said there [ph]? Yes.
I think it's pretty disciplined.
It's pretty balanced at this point in time.
And look I mean if it gets out of balance then I think we'll do the same thing.
I'm not going to build -- let me put it this way I am not going to put the inventory on the balance sheet that I don't have any reasonable expectation to sell in that quarter.
So we'll monitor that very very closely.
Right now I like the forward looks.
We're busy.
But it's a difficult economy to read right now.
I think you would have to agree.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last question.
Beer demands have been quite strong but CSD continues to be weak.
There is some hope that a big CSD guy was stepping up promotions this year it doesn't seem to have much of a lift yet.
And I think based on some of the recent comments they're looking to do like everyday lower prices rather than discounting in the big holidays.
Do you think that's having any impact on volumes currently? Well we care a lot about take-home not so much what goes on the C-stores.
So actually take-home buying has not been that bad.
People are buying.
So we care about that and that's been okay.
I listened to the same PepsiCo call yesterday and look they're doing -- I mean the CEO is right.
They're continuing to promote.
They're continuing to put power behind their brands and I feel good about where CSD is heading.
Beer has been strong.
It's been hot.
And again take-home is important to us and take-home beer has been good.
Craft has been good.
As I mentioned in our call we were up a couple of percentage points just on core big beer big beer brands.
And that's good for our business and I don't really see any major slowdown right now.
And your next question comes from the line of Phil Gresh.
Research Division</strong> One question on the maintenance numbers just so I'm clear.
2013 versus 2012 how much is in this every-other-year bucket that -- do we get added back? Is it the $15 million? About $10 million or something like that.
If you go back and look at our 2010 -- if you look at sort of '09 '10 '11 '12 you see the every other year it's probably in that $10 million range.
It also may depend upon -- if there is something -- when we do a cold outage like that from that from some time we will do some extra work.
Because when it's down we want to take the extra day or so to be able to do something in the mill that we just cannot do when it's running and we may add a day of downtime or something like that but it's really around increasing forward productivity.
This year it's a bigger outage because we've been building up some time to do some things particularly in our West Monroe mills.
So we're going to -- it's going to be a little longer.
But generally speaking year-on-year in a year when we have cold outage versus not it's in that $10 million to $12 million range is what is sort of normalized.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then because you had such a big outage -- or you had such a big outage planned in the second half is it reasonable to think that you did build a little bit of inventory ahead of that because of the outage and that might have helped your productivity in the quarter? Or what was the real driver of such a strong productivity number? Inventory was down as you know year-on-year so we didn't actually really build inventory.
We will -- our inventory will drop there is no question about it.
In the third quarter when we take that downtime we'll lose some production and our inventory will drop even further.
I don't know that we're actually going to get a head to sort of put it on the balance sheet.
We'll run and we generally don't.
We may run a little higher and maybe I figure 10 000 tons or something like that but nothing that's measurable.
You got to remember we're a net buyer of board right? So the fact of the matter is we produced more board.
Even though our tons were slightly down and I mean a couple of thousand tons we just -- we produced more which meant we bought less externally.
So when you look at Graphic's numbers you got to remember that not every ton is the same ton.
So for us we had better productivity because we made more tons and we sold those tons and bought less external tons.
That's one of the reasons why.
And we talked in the past about operating leverage I think you all have asked me to explain how do you really see operating leverage in the business? Well look at the second quarter.
You saw a better throughput more throughput through our existing asset base and therefore the operating leverage and the margins increased.
Because we really don't get anything on pricing.
I mean the fact of the matter is our customers do not allow us to improve our margins on pricing.
We hope to break even on pricing and what we really see as an improvement is when we are more productive in our facilities and operating less facilities.
That's what drives our margins.
But certainly not through pricing.
Research Division</strong> Yes now that certainly was impressive this quarter.
The highway bill is there any impact in how you're thinking about pension contributions for next year? We're taking a close look at the highway bill.
But in terms of our practice we're focused in on really continuing to contribute at the rates we have published before.
I mean we're talking I think it's $60 million $80 million this year and we're still planning to do that.
In 2013 we'll take a closer look at the highway bill and what we want to contribute.
But we're focused in on funding our pension obligations.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just my last question following up on the capital deployment being at 3x by the end of the year.
And kind of addressing it then is it fair to say the high end of the range is a place for you would think -- where you're willing to discuss potential plans? Or is it more kind of the midpoint or low end? I'm just trying to calibrate is this 6 months away or 12 months away? Now you sound like our Board.
listen what I would say is that I'm more comfortable getting that 2.5x.
The fact of the matter is we're getting there pretty rapidly as you guys saw we made a pretty big dent in the ratio this year already.
So I think Dan's right.
We'll be right around that 3x but we won't be very far after that to 2.5x.
You're probably talking in the shorter range as opposed to 12 to 18 months.
That's probably not -- we'll have to be dealing with that issue certainly by this time next year.
[Operator Instructions] And we do have a follow-up question from the line of Alex Ovshey.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick follow-ons.
I'm sure you're aware that there's a containerboard price increase out there and in '12 you did take some share from corrugated with the CUK substrate.
I mean are you seeing any customers coming to you and potentially doing more conversions out of corrugated into CUK? Well we had a number of other wins this quarter.
I didn't detail them all out for the brevity.
But we're not really -- but regardless of pricing in the containerboard there's a lot of other advantages.
The sustainability metrics are particularly different.
With freight costs going up that's as big a driver as anything else.
The thing on containerboard pricing is it will have to translate to carton pricing or box pricing for it to make a difference to me right? Because my customers don't really buy board.
They buy boxes.
So I don't expect a material impact on those economics this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in the Flexible business is there much exposure to the residential U.S.
housing market? Yes I mean there is.
I mean don't forget that the good part of our multi-wall bag ends up in concrete bags.
And -- so that's smaller projects do-it-at-home those kinds of things.
Any pickup there would be welcomed.
We don't -- we really have no forward outlook -- none of our forwards as we gave you guidance has any market improvement in any of our sectors because I'm growing weary of trying to forecast what the U.S.
economy is going to do and certainly on individual sectors.
It would be great if it happened but we're not expecting it.
Look the improvement in Flexible for us is going to be the integration of the Delta Natural Kraft synergies as we go into 2013.
If market comes back that will be a bonus but not expected.
Your next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Matt Wooten sitting in for Ghansham.
So your volume is clearly outperformed the industry and competitors.
And obviously forecasting is very difficult but can you at least comment on the trajectory throughout this past quarter month-to-month? You mean for the 14 days to -- or 26 days of July? What...
Research Division</strong> No I was talking about 2Q.
Oh Q2.
Yes I mean look food and beverage was good.
What can I tell you? I think the volume was where we expected it to be.
And I told you at the end of the first quarter I thought the second quarter trends would be pretty good on food and beverage and the change in -- the focus on pouch carton and pasta and food service has served us well and our volume is good.
It's good but it's not great compared to where you would think we would be historically from a recovery of the kind of recession that we saw.
So I'm happy versus where we are but disappointed in sort of what we would expect on a historical basis.
I would expect volume to be much stronger than it has been.
But we're busy.
We're making -- we're okay.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then you've just talked about bolt-on acquisitions.
Can you talk about how robust that pipeline is right now for these opportunities? I would tell you we have -- we are actively involved or actively engaged in a number of bolt-on sort of looks.
Small acquisitions are almost as difficult to get done as big ones.
Integration is of course less complex but we look at a lot.
And we'll get some things done if they make sense for us.
And there are no further questions at this time.
All right operator.
Thank you.
We'll talk to you all next quarter.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect at this time.
Good morning.
My name is Sarah and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Graphic Packaging Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Brad Ankerholz Vice President and Treasurer you may begin your conference.
Thanks Sarah and welcome everybody to the Graphic Packaging Holding Company's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
Commenting on our results this morning will be David Scheible the company's President and CEO; and Dan Blount our Senior Vice President and CFO.
To help you follow along with today's call we've provided a slide presentation which you can access by clicking on the Q3 earnings webcast link on our Investor Relations section of our website which is graphicpkg.com.
I'd like to remind everyone that statements of our expectations in this call constitute forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements including but not limited to statements relating to the effect of business combinations completion of the Macon biomass boiler project raw material inflation costs consumer demand and pricing trends capital expenditures cash pension contributions and pension expense depreciation and amortization interest expense income tax rates debt and leverage reductions performance improvements and cost reduction initiatives are based on currently available information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's present expectations.
These risks include but are not limited to the company's substantial amount of debt volatility in raw material and energy costs cutbacks in consumer spending that reduce demand for the company's products continuing pressure for lower cost products and the company's ability to implement its business strategies including productivity initiatives and cost reduction plans.
Undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements as such statements speak only as of the date on which they are made and the company undertakes no obligation to update such statements.
Additional information regarding these and other risks is contained in the company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
David I'll turn it over to you now.
Thanks Brad.
Good morning everyone.
We're pleased with our strong third quarter results and ability to continue to drive sales earnings operating margins and cash flow meaningfully higher during a difficult time for many of our core end-use markets.
In the third quarter net sales increased 3% adjusted EBITDA margin increased 130 basis points to 15.5% adjusted EBITDA increased to $171 million $19 million higher than last year and cash flow from operations increased $65 million to $146 million Q3.
We also dropped below the $2 billion of debt this quarter representing a significant milestone for Graphic Packaging.
New products and market share gains in key end-use sectors drove our sales increase.
While productivity enhancement lower input cost and strong manufacturing performance drove margin improvements.
Clearly the strategic investments we have made in critical areas of our business such as new product development asset optimization and some bolt-on acquisitions continue to drive positive results.
On the new product development side we're having success by focusing in key strategic areas such as corrugated replacement expanded microwave cooking technology secondary packaging for [ph] [Audio Gap] products away-from-home quick service and a brand new solution for glass bottle packs for the beer market I'll talk about in a second.
We're working on new initiatives in each of these areas and feel good about our new products pipeline.
Our solid CUK fiber folding carton that was commercially deployed in the juice pouch sector is clearly a viable substitute to traditional litho-laminated corrugated structures.
This new structure runs well on existing packaging machinery and offers significant inbound supply chain benefits compared to corrugated boxes.
In the third quarter we began converting a major food storage bag customer out of their litho-laminated corrugated packaging and into our folding cartons using heavyweight CUK Paperboard.
Additionally we are building on our U.S.
success internationally for example with the launch of the new products for the dairy market in China replacing corrugated products.
In glass bottles we've developed a new solution for beer multipacks that reduces breakage and noise throughout the distribution and handling process.
Our new solution called Tite-Pak offers an alternative to partitions in corrugated boxes for the protection of glass bottles.
Tite-Pak launched regionally in the third quarter for YuengLing Brewing and offers great potential due to cost savings and efficiency benefits throughout the customer supply chain.
In the away-from-home channel we recently developed a one-piece clamshell for a major fast food retailer.
The clamshell is a completely symmetrical design that incorporates a patented locking feature and can be loaded at the restaurant with either cavity at the bottom.
The benefits of the new product include better ease-of-use of manufacturing efficiency and material reduction.
Also in the away-from-home a major coffee chain launched a food product in a new Graphic Packaging Paperboard design.
This package was selected because of its ease-of-use in both the staff and customer.
And also represents a green alternative to the plastic products available before.
Our microwave business continues to experience global growth largely through new business development.
Our ongoing investment in the development of proprietary products and designs continue to find strong consumer acceptance.
Sales of our microwave packaging are up 5% year-to-date as a result of strong new product launch last year.
Commercial rollouts have continued this year including ConAgra's commercialized 50-ounce meals at Wal-Mart which utilize our proprietary Micro-Rite press tray technology.
We expect product development activities in this market to remain strong over the next 15 months and it will be a major contributor to growth in new business.
While new products help drive sales growth it was continued productivity enhancement and asset utilization that led to higher operating margins in the third quarter.
We generated a net $60 million for performance improvements in the quarter overcoming $7 million in costs related to planned maintenance downtime at our Macon Georgia and Pine Bluff Arkansas mills.
We have achieved $62 million through the first 9 months of cost savings putting us on track to achieve between $70 million and $80 million annually.
These cost saving initiatives include reduced use of energy fiber chemicals higher output in our Paperboard Mill and optimization of our converting network.
Synergies from acquisitions also contributed in the quarter as we completed the closure of our Twinsburg Ohio plant in our Flexible Packaging division putting us on plan with our integration of Delta Natural Kraft and Mid-American Packaging business.
Further declines in our input -- further declines in our input cost predominantly from natural gas and secondary fiber contributed to the improvement in margins as well.
Debt reduction continues to be a critical value driver for Graphic Packaging.
And our focus on winning new business improving operating efficiencies and optimizing our capital structure over the past few years has allowed us to generate higher levels of cash flow that we've used to delever the business and strengthen the balance sheet.
Our debt fell below $2 billion in the quarter which is a historic low and our net EBITDA -- our net debt-to-EBITDA ratio fell to roughly 3x.
Dan will provide more insight in the cash flow debt liquidity in his section of the call.
Let's talk about Paperboard.
Our mills had another strong quarter driven by improvement initiatives in energy operating efficiencies and fixed cost reduction.
Despite some extended planned downtime in the quarter we generated almost 5 200 additional tons of production in the third quarter and utilized this extra production internally in our carton plants.
So our mills produced more tons.
We converted more tons in our facilities and sold more folding cartons externally.
This increased production and utilization rate allowed us to lower our cost per ton and expanded our margins increased cash generation.
The mills continue to benefit from stronger demand for our CUK board as a result of new customer wins and substitution trends to our solid fiber.
The high -- this higher efficiency is allowing us to increase our inventory turns shorten our cash cycle and improve our return on capital.
During the quarter we completed the planned maintenance outages in Macon Georgia and Pine Bluff Arkansas mills.
The Macon mill came online a few days earlier than we anticipated as the outage was a little more efficient.
As a reminder we will be taking a longer planned maintenance outage at our West Monroe Louisiana mill in the fourth quarter.
This outage will include a required biannual cold outage to inspect and service the boilers on site.
This is fully factored into our expectations.
It's something that we have to deal with every other year.
Within our biomass boiler investment in Macon Georgia we remain on plan to be up and running in the second quarter of 2013.
The economic benefit of this project continue to be solid as our new boilers are expected to eliminate our reliance on coal-generated purchased electricity here in Georgia.
And we anticipate being a supplier of electricity back to the grid when we come online next year.
Looking at folding carton.
Our sales increased 4% in this quarter compared to the prior-year period.
End market trends across some of our core food categories remain challenging however.
But we were able to offset this with wins in new business in such areas as juice pouch cartons pasta away-from-home and frozen foods.
On a year-to-date basis net new business is performing better than planned and our pipeline of new products remain robust.
The cereal and frozen pizza market continues to be sluggish in the third quarter.
In the third quarter ACNielsen estimated that volumes for cereal decreased about 2% and frozen pizza volumes were down about -- about the same.
Overall we saw a better and more normalized trend in our back-to-school business in this quarter which includes food items such as cereal pasta and pantry foods.
I would not say that we have seen industry sales at historical levels but the trends are certainly better than the same period last year.
Industry volumes across the canned beverage market decreased 1.8% on a year-over-year basis according to Can Manufacturers Institute.
Industry softdrink shipment remain weak but we continue to see a steady recovery in the beer market led predominantly by craft brewer and bottled beer.
Our beverage volumes were down slightly reflecting the overall market.
Premium beer for most brands had a solid quarter in terms of volume.
The craft beer does continue to lead the categories.
Our acquisition of Sierra Pacific last year continues to benefit from the strength in craft beer and our new Tite-Pak product that we introduced this quarter is going to benefit from the growth in bottled beer sector.
Let's talk about Flexible.
We saw really little change in the underlying trends in this market during the quarter.
Stagnant demand for construction and industrial related materials continues to negatively impact this business.
In addition a relatively mild storm season has further dampened the roofing shingle wrap market.
As I mentioned the integration of Delta Natural Kraft and Mid-American joint venture is progressing on plan and we completed the Twinsburg Ohio plant closure ahead of schedule.
We continue to target $20-plus million of total synergies from this combination most of which of course will show up in 2013.
Pricing overall contributed about $1 million this quarter.
The bigger story was inflation.
In fact the lack thereof.
Commodity cost input was actually deflating by about $8 million.
The lower input costs were driven primarily by decreases in energy and secondary fiber year-on-year.
These were partially offset by increases in freight and to a lesser extent wood and chemicals.
The increase in freight cost is being driven by government regulatory changes which have reduced the allowable driving hours as well.
Diesel prices continue to be stubbornly high.
While crude oil prices are down and we have seen the benefit from natural gas in the cost of some chemicals and resins freight prices were $3 million or higher in Q3 in 2011 and we expect this trend to continue somewhat into 2013.
In summary we had a good quarter.
We continue to drive growth through focusing our product innovation asset optimization and debt reduction.
We're investing in some of the stronger trends in the food and beverage markets such as litho-lam substitution pasta craft beer food service and microwave while protecting our core segments.
We like our positioning but there are plenty of opportunities to continue to grow the business.
Similar to Sierra Pacific Delta Natural Kraft and Mid-American Packaging transactions we will continue to look for strategic bolt-ons to enhance our competitive position globally.
I'll now turn the call over to Dan for a more detailed discussion of our financial results.
Dan? Thanks David and good morning.
David covered the operational highlights of the quarter.
I'll focus on the financial results.
My comments track our posted presentation.
Let's start with financial highlights on Page 9.
As a reminder when I refer to EBITDA and EBITDA margin in my discussion today I'm referring to results adjusted to produce comparable financial reporting.
Let's take a look at third quarter performance.
Net sales improved 2.9% or $31 million.
EBITDA increased 12.4% to almost $171 million.
EBITDA margin increased 130 basis points to 15.5%.
Adjusted net income at $42.8 million is $0.02 per share higher than a year ago.
And year-to-date operating cash flow at $145.8 million is $64.5 million higher than last year.
As David discussed we posted a very solid quarter.
The main drivers of the bottom line improvement are pretty straightforward as they include revenue growth strong operating performance and lower interest expense.
Higher EBITDA combined with working capital efficiency also generated significantly more cash than a year ago.
Moving to the discussion of results.
The sales comparison on Slide 10 shows almost 3% growth to over $1.1 billion in third quarter revenues.
As you can see volume gains drove the growth.
Overall volume net of foreign exchange equated to a roughly $30 million of sales growth.
The Paperboard Packaging segment successfully grew their business organically as David outlined principally through new products and share gains.
As we also saw on the second quarter the new business delivered a margin of 20% as we further leveraged our fixed overhead cost.
Now in the Flexible Packaging segment revenues grew nearly $16 million due to the business combination with Delta Natural Kraft.
Right now the acquired flexible volume is at skinny margins.
However as we have spoken to previously we expect these sales to improve to a low double-digit margins as we deliver our integration synergies in 2013.
These integration initiatives are progressing as expected.
Turning to the EBITDA bridge on Slide 11.
We see strong EBITDA improvement of $19 million to $171 million.
As we look at the chart what jumps out are 2 things: Commodity deflation and the large benefits from performance gains.
Let's talk about these 2 items.
First if you look at the deflationary decline in input cost the primary driver has been secondary fiber.
In this commodity alone we expect deflation of $25 million to $30 million for 2012.
We're glad to have a pullback in commodity inflation this year.
But the way our contracts work some portion of the impact of input cost deflation will be reflected in 2013 pricing.
The second driver is performance improvements where we have achieved $62 million benefit year-to-date and $16 million for the quarter.
Looking at the details of the quarterly $16 million improvement we see cost-reduction delivered $23 million and this benefit was netted against $7 million of additional mill maintenance that I highlighted was going to be incurred during the second quarter call.
Overall we are pleased with our cost-reduction results and expect to achieve around $80 million for the full year.
As a reminder our fourth quarter will include approximately $8 million of incremental year-over-year mill maintenance expense as we complete the biannual maintenance outage at our West Monroe mill campus.
Now looking at the EBITDA margins.
We are pleased with the improvement to 15.5%.
In the upper right-hand corner of Page 11 you will see a decline in the flexible segment margin.
The margin drop is attributable to the maintenance outage at our newly acquired Pine Bluff mill.
If you normalize for the outage the margin would be comparable to the previous year.
And I might mention that we expect margins in Flexible to return to our normal levels starting next quarter.
Now turning to Slide 12.
Let's look at cash flow debt and liquidity.
Third quarter net cash provided by operations was strong at $146 million.
Stronger earnings and a pull forward of various working capital benefits from the fourth quarter into the third quarter helped to drive the solid performance.
CapEx increased $10 million to $48 million in the quarter.
The increase was the result of timing of expenditures for our Macon biomass boiler project and investments related to the integration of Graphic Flexible Packaging.
As David mentioned the biomass project is on target and we expect the boiler to be up and operational by mid-next year.
We expect total CapEx to be around $190 million for 2012.
Now looking at debt and interest we saw a 25% drop or a $9 million reduction in interest expense.
This drop was a result of our declining debt balance and a reduction in our effective interest rate.
I should also note during the quarter that pricing on our senior secured term loan and revolver dropped by 25 basis points to LIBOR plus 200.
As our leverage ratio dropped below the first step on the facility's pricing grid.
Year-to-date net reduction was $153 million.
This figure compares to $80 million of debt -- net debt reduction during the first 3 quarters of 2011.
Based on this stronger performance we are raising our 2012 net debt reduction target to the $240 million range.
Our net leverage ratio improved to 3x.
This is compared to 3.5x at year-end 2011 and 3.8x a year ago.
Liquidity at the end of the quarter was an excess of $685 million.
Our target leverage ratio continues to be in the 2.5x to 3x range.
And we expect to be within this range by the end of this year.
Now let's talk about some guidance.
Overall performance for the third quarter was strong and in line with our expectations for the year.
And looking forward let's turn to Slide 13 and speak to some of our thoughts around fourth quarter.
First in the fourth quarter we expect cost inflation to run at current levels with secondary fiber and energy positive to 2012 levels.
We also expect to see the normal seasonality that occurs in our core food and beverage business with the fourth quarter somewhat historically weaker around the holiday periods.
Volume in Flexible Packaging is more dependent on industrial activities which also is historically slower in the fourth quarter.
Also as mentioned earlier we will take planned maintenance downtime at our West Monroe mill in the fourth quarter.
This biannual maintenance is expected to result in a $13 million charge in the quarter which is about $8 million higher than we had last year in our results.
Overall as we look at Q4 we expect EBITDA for the quarter to come in around the current consensus analyst estimates.
Looking into 2013 we expect contractual price adjustments to reflect some of this year's deflationary commodity environment.
We expect very modest commodity inflation in 2013 with major components flat to 2012.
Our cost-reduction goal is to once again achieve $60 million to $80 million of benefit and we also expect to roll in the previously announced $20 million of synergies in the Flexible Packaging segment.
So EBITDA again will grow nicely in the 2013.
And now moving to Slide 14.
In addition to the comments I had about Q3 -- I mean Q4 I will summarize our guidance for full year 2012.
Capital expenditures will be around $190 million.
Cash pension contributions will be between $45 million and $60 million.
Pension expense of around $40 million depreciation and amortization in the $260 million to $280 million range interest expense of $110 million to $120 million the full year tax rate of 41% net debt reduction in the $240 million range and finally our net leverage ratio should end the year below 3x.
And with those comments I will turn the call back to the operator for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Joe Stivaletti with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> You would -- you know now that you've gotten your leverage down significantly you talked about potential bolt-on acquisitions.
And I wondered if you could just talk to us a little bit about what areas in particular would be most interesting for you? And would you be considering anything else in the flexible space or just your core business? Well as you all know I have to be somewhat circumspect about any sort of acquisitions.
What I will tell you generally speaking most of the things -- anything that we're really looking at is in our core business.
But that does include Flexible.
If you sort of think about it Joe with the acquisition of Delta Natural Kraft we've made that business look a lot more like our other business.
So I think there will be some reasonable bolt-ons in that business to make it strategically a better fit more opportunities for integration.
We'll continue to look at that.
As I said in the past our acquisitions in our Paperboard business -- they'll be both domestic and international.
And in our focus -- we'd like to have our footprint a little broader in the international business.
But it's going to be around our core carton food and beverage markets.
I mean that -- with the sort of uncertainty and I think it's fair.
And moving into 2013 we're just not going to go get too far afield from the things that we know and understand and can explain in light of the sort of the economic uncertainty that we feel that we're facing in '13.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I was wondering Dan if you could talk at all about -- you gave us guidance on the 2012 cash flow items.
So there -- can you share at this point any targets for 2013? And you've talked about 2012 I mean but 2013 in terms of your -- any thinking on targets for net debt reduction or also maybe CapEx for next year? Yes we can give you a few comments on that is one -- once we hit that range which we consider to be optimal that's 2.5x to 3x.
We'll use the revolver to efficiently reduce debt with cash.
But we will be in a position to be able to ratchet that revolver up or down depending on the acquisition activity and those types of things.
We're not looking at that overall net debt reduction outside of that range for the business.
The other thing in terms of the range for CapEx as you know in 2012 we had additional CapEx related to the biomass boiler.
We expect that project to be complete in the middle of 2013.
So we're looking at CapEx spending to drop from around that $190 million range to around $175 million for 2013.
So there will be a gain there.
And that will be positively reflected in cash flow.
Joe and Dan's right.
If you remember that we've talked in the past maintenance for our business is around $100 million.
If you look at the acquisitions maybe we're up to $105 million or $106 million because we bought the Paperboard mill with DNK but it's in that range.
So for the $175 million that gives us some free board for growth investment or strategic investment in that range.
So I'm pretty comfortable that $175 million on an actual CapEx is probably a pretty sustainable level for Graphic Packaging at this point in time.
So overall if you look at cash you have estimates for an improved EBITDA and you have some reduction in CapEx.
So we expect cash flow to improve from 2012 levels in 2013.
Your next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> On Slides 10 and 11 where you break out the volume mix by sales and EBITDA contribution can you just parse that out between the legacy businesses and acquired volumes? I'm just trying to get a sense as to how -- a bit where the drop-down margins were for the quarter? There's a couple of things there.
One if you look -- it's about a $30 million number right? Research Division</strong> Yes.
In net of FX.
Correct.
Net of FX.
So that's why we're basically looking at it.
So if you look at that half of it is in our Paperboard Packaging and approximately half of it is in Flexible Packaging.
Paperboard Packaging really doesn't have any benefits from acquisitions in there.
Because on a year-over-year basis we own the same basic footprints in that business.
Flexible Packaging all of that improvement was related to the acquisition of Delta Natural Kraft and Mid-American Packaging.
So if you do that -- and then I also said that the margins were for Delta Natural Kraft I mean they're very skinny at this point.
They're low single-digits and that's what's compressing what you see on the other waterfall with EBITDA improvement.
So there's mix improvement.
There's mix effect in that EBITDA waterfall as well.
So if you ferret all those things out for the new business that David talked about we're getting about a 20% margin on that new business because we're leveraging our fixed cost base.
And the new business for Delta Natural Kraft I mean that's compressing what goes on the benefit on the EBITDA waterfall.
But we're working on that.
We have a plan for it.
And in 2013 as we complete our integration activities for that business you should see that climb dramatically in the low-single double-digit range.
So it's going to be a sales figure that actually delivers a measurable benefit to the company in terms of EBITDA margin.
You got to remember also in Flexible Dan identified we had that -- we took a downtime in the Pine Bluff mill and that actually shows up in Flexible not in Paperboard.
So it cuts the margins in half.
It's a pretty small business.
When you take that kind of cold outage downtime in a mill like that it has pretty significant impact in that quarter on that business.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And then on the planned mill outage I think last quarter you said $12 million was your estimate for the year-over-year impact for 3Q and $5-somewhat million for the fourth quarter.
Was that just a timing issue in terms of why you came in at 7 which I think is what you said? We have never done an outage at Pine Bluff before.
And one of the things is that you're somewhat cautious with your numbers and the guys that are planning the outage are cautious as well.
So now that we've done a lot of learning on how to properly do our maintenance outage on that mill and you'll see those types of numbers on an annual basis.
And we probably even improve on it as we go forward and learn more about how that mill operates.
Yes I mean I think you know that that business had been starved for capital so we didn't know what we were going to get into when we tore that boiler down right? And so we said it could be -- we are pleasantly surprised.
Honestly the boiler was in better shape than we thought.
But we gave some upside guidance because until you open it and get into it you really don't know where you are.
So I think it we'll be better on a go-forward basis.
The other thing is that Macon came up a little earlier than we thought.
I think Dan has said in his comments we have planned for a downtime in Macon but we came up a couple of days earlier in Macon which was good because we made the paper and we sold the paper.
So it's kind of why the cash translated into the quarter because we had a couple of extra tons that we didn't expect and we ended up selling those tons.
Research Division</strong> And just one final clarification on the D&amp;A on your press release on the cash flow side as listed as $202 million and then the reconciliation at $225 million can you just help us bridge the 2? Yes.
I think you'll find the difference there is pension amortization.
So the usual numbers that we highlighted in the comments we had previously is the appropriate way.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Dave just to start out can you give us just based on what you see right now a sense for kind of what those price adjusters may mean in '13? Mark right now from what we do I'd say we're probably looking at $25 million-or-so of pricing adjustment from those things blowing through in next year.
I mean that sort of what we expect.
So as Dan said it was great.
We love getting it this year.
We don't expect a lot of inflation next year.
So we'll overcome those with volume and of course we have the synergies from DNK.
We'd like to get back Mark to a place where really pricing and inflation are kind of balanced which with the old model.
In the last 3 or 4 years we've been -- inflation has been up and pricing has been down or vice versa.
But what you'll see is steady EBITDA growth.
You'll see on a normalized basis EBITDA growth from last year to this year and from this year to next year through that arbitrage of pricing and inflation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you give us some sense in the coated board business right now how important are exports to you? Well it is a 2 part question.
If you're talking just about just pure export board that we sell in the open market in internationally not very much.
We ship and we've said publicly a couple of hundred thousand tons a year to Europe and Asia Australia but we use those predominantly in our -- to make folding cartons in those regions.
So export is important to me but it's not the SBS model where CUK is shipped around the world in just to open market applications.
It's a pretty small part of the CUK plan.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
So from that Dave can we assume that you don't see a big impact to your business from all of this Chinese box board capacity that's out there? Well I mean a lot of it Mark as you well know it really depends on which end-use market ends up.
When we don't do a lot of SBS we don't do a lot of ivory board end-use applications right? And that board that they're making really isn't very good for beverage application it's got recycled.
So can it have an impact? Sure.
But I don't think it's as great on our businesses we -- as we would expect.
And in Europe our business is predominantly beverage for sure.
And in any food business where there we're a buyer of board we don't export our CRB.
So in sort of a perverse way any reduction in Europe actually would benefit -- if any [indiscernible] we would do it we'd focus on the food.
And I think Mark [indiscernible] said this last week they really expected most of that stuff to end up in Asia and other places.
It really wasn't targeted that much for the United States.
So it will be an indirect impact in our business as opposed to direct impact.
At least that's what I think.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
Have you seen any sign of kind of Chinese box board kind of coming into the U.S.
for that kind of compete with the recycled box board here? I mean I keep hearing -- I hear -- I just hear about this and I never know whether it's much of a truly shown up in the market? Yes.
We haven't seen a whole lot of it.
You've got to remember that some -- a good part of CRB ends up in direct food contact stuff.
And so as you can well imagine Mark some of our customers get a little nervous about importing Chinese box board that is direct in contact with pasta or other products.
And rightfully so.
So we really haven't seen yet.
I know it occurs on the coast for sure.
But that's -- I don't get necessarily it.
I don't think it starts in the food space is my point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And I'm just curious with the weakening in some currencies like the real and others are we seeing any more sign of more coated board imports coming into the U.S.? Well we haven't seen a lot.
And I think that's because and you know as far better than I do that the fact that the Brazilian market which is predominantly what you're talking about there is actually growing.
And there's been no real new board capacity added significantly in that market.
So I think a lot of the coated board stock down there is going to serve the local market.
While the real is weaker it's still not -- it's still pretty high and so we really haven't seen that.
Research Division</strong> Okay and just finally just you've talked about kind of the improvement that you expect to see next year in the Flexible business specially down the Delta Kraft can you help just to think about the impact from just the kind of contractual changes and your integration levels in that business? That's a totally different business.
I don't really think we see nearly as much contractual changes in that business.
I think the question really becomes there the synergies become pretty easy to get because it's really internalizing externally purchased board.
So those -- that's pretty easy.
I think of it really Mark is more of a volume question right? I mean a lot of it depends upon your view of what the U.S.
-- and it's predominantly U.S.
market economy is.
We're industrial based long lead concrete industrial chemicals business right? And so a lot of it depends on what happens in '13.
I think it's more of a volume question Mark than it's anything else.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question I had maybe segueing off of Mark's question you continued to be optimistic on the synergies with DNK and Mid-America but are the returns -- given what you've seen in the business in total from a volume standpoint over the last year do you think the business will be returning at the same level you'd expect it to say a year ago when you made that investment in DNK? Well first as you well know our investment in DNK was not very much.
So when we essentially just assumed some debt.
So we didn't really make a large capital investment.
What I would tell you is that I still think [indiscernible] we just transfer debt.
We just picked up transfer debt.
So at LIBOR plus 200.
So what I would simply say is that we -- for the long term I still like that business because of the integration network.
We're still struggling like every other businesses on the industrial side of the equation.
We knew where that was going in.
I'm sorry we knew what that market we were selling into going in.
I would have preferred it to rebound a little faster.
But ultimately we are sort of where we are.
We'll still get the synergies.
The business is going to struggle from a volume standpoint but the margins are going to double.
So we're going to get into that double-digit margin square as we head out in 2013.
I mean if we got -- if there's any volume recovery at all it will happen much quicker.
Otherwise it's just going to be grinding it out at current levels.
Research Division</strong> All right I appreciate the affirmation on that Dave.
The second question I had have you seen any uptick in orders more recently relative to market that perhaps have been maybe more sluggish over the last 9 to 12 months.
We've seen some pickup that we've written about in terms of point-of-sale data.
Obviously you're gaining market share so your volumes are outpacing the market.
But have you seen any kind of lift into the market say as we've gotten into the fourth quarter.
If you could color on that -- provide color on that.
Yes.
What I would say is that we're certainly busy right now and you heard my trends.
I said that this back-to-school season was much better than we saw last year right? So I would tell you right now our converting plants are running and our mills are busy.
And I hope that continues.
I'm not trying to be evasive but you and I both know trying to predict around Christmas New Year's and Thanksgiving in the fourth quarter is so darn difficult.
Because while customers maybe scheduled to run right now through Thanksgiving and they are it doesn't take but a phone call to say "Hey you know what? We're going to go -- we're going to take some downtime around the holiday." And then we lose $8 million to $16 million worth of the volume in 2 days because they move out.
Right now I like what the fourth quarter is developing.
We're busy and we're running a lot of standard back-to-school center of the aisle products.
And that's why Dan gave guidance through the fourth quarter it feels like it's going to be in line.
It's just the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Dave last question and I'll turn it over.
If you continue to see growth in CUK through share gains how much additional capacity if you will do you think you have to grow? How much de-bottlenecking can you continue to do? And similarly I mean converting it all can have a little bit more if you will flex or excess capacity but how much more could you grow before you have to start considering larger investment in converting equipment? Well converting equipment I think we've got plenty of converting capacity.
As you know we run our converting businesses with about -- in an individual plant.
We have less than half of the equipment on 7 days.
We have plenty of capacity in converting.
And you have to because there are surges we have some surges.
In the mill side we get about 1% a year in creep just from efficiency operation and you sort of think about that.
In the CUK that's 1.6 million tons or something like that 1.4 million tons.
So we pick up enough to run our business pretty effectively.
We're -- there's lots of opportunity for us to put with minor investment to put more capacity out there if we need it.
But it makes absolutely no sense to put more capacity in the market that we don't know that we're going to sell.
Now that's just -- it's good discipline.
So we have plenty of excess capacity in the business but we're just not going to get ahead of ourselves.
In some ways I'd rather be an honest.
And I've said this past I'd rather be a net buyer globally of even CUK.
I wouldn't mind buying enough on the outside to be able to balance our network.
That part has been part of our core strategy.
And there's other people that make it globally and they'll be glad to sell it to me and I'll be glad to buy it.
Your next question comes from the line of Phil Ng with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> From an execution standpoint you guys are doing an incredible job in terms of taking cost out of the system can you talk about some of the opportunities for 2013? Well we've got a couple of things going on.
We've got some pretty good synergy opportunities in 2013 that will roll through the bottom line.
As you -- as I just gave George a little bit of background we're going to have to make some more tons and more efficiency tons because our CUK business continues to grow.
And that manifest itself in throughput and productivity in the mills.
And that's really what part of our plan is for sure.
We've got some growth in China that will manifest itself back to our business that will allow us to optimize sort of what we're doing because we do some suboptimal in that process.
And then we've made a fair amount of capital investments this year in the mills.
First of all we've got the Macon biomass in the second half of the year will contribute.
And then the converting plants we put in some new presses and some new cutters.
And the guys that got that money have the expectation from the CEO that they're going to see increased throughput or otherwise they won't gain more capital.
So the project list is out there.
We manage each and individual project for all the $60 million to $70 million is tied to an individual project throughout the organization globally.
Look I think if the volume holds up like we expected to we'll generate our cost reductions.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And it sounds like from what you said earlier demand is firming up a little bit but visibility is still pretty low.
Have order patterns just a little bit more choppy? No.
Our order pattern has been good.
What you're hearing is just I don't want to get it or I don't want to over lean my skis.
Because the fact of the matter is it's so darn difficult to predict in the fourth quarter because of all the holidays.
If you look at -- if you just think what we have to manage through Thanksgiving Christmas and New Year.
In our food business a day is $8 million in sales.
So if it moves a couple of days you lose $16 million to $20 million in sales.
It's kind of hard to predict what's going to be around a number.
So I'm just saying look I like where we are but customers start to manage inventory at the end of the year worrying about first quarter who is going to get elected who knows.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one final question you guys have done a pretty good job -- a very good job actually picking up some new business on the corrugated conversion side as well as pasta and frozen are there any other new markets that you could penetrate that could actually offset some of the market weakness? Yes.
First of all I don't think we by any means exhausted the corrugated conversion.
And it's great.
I saw those guys are getting their price increase in the marketplace that's super.
Like they say in golf every shot makes somebody happy.
Creates additional opportunity for me from a conversion standpoint.
I like that.
The microwave business is really on fire.
No pun intended.
We're really doing a nice job of growing that business.
And we've got some customers that are very committed and dedicated to that.
And that feels good.
And it's away-from-home I mentioned are a couple of new items that are in plastic that are going to paper board.
So I don't think -- I think we're sort of a target rich opportunity for new things.
Having said that we're going to have to be disciplined in where we spend our money in the process.
So I'm not going to tell you that I see a breakout and we're going to start growing like Microsoft.
I'm just thinking we've got consistent constant growth integrated back to the Paperboard mills which says like I said I think -- my expectation is EBITDA will continue to grow and we'll generate cash.
That's our plan.
And we seem to be executing towards that so I'm comfortable going forward.
At this time there are no further questions.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you sir.
Thank you very much see you all next quarter.
Good morning.
My name is Kimberly and I will be your conference operator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to the Graphic Packaging Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder ladies and gentlemen this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn over to Mr.
Brad Ankerholz Vice President and Treasurer of Graphic Packaging.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Kimberly and welcome to all to the Graphic Packaging Holding Company fourth quarter and full year 2012 earnings call.
Commenting on results this morning will be David Scheible the company's President and CEO; and Dan Blount our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
To help you follow along with today's call we have provided a slide presentation which you can access by clicking on the Q4 earnings webcast link on the Investor Relations section of our website which you can find at graphicpkg.com.
I would like to remind everyone that statements of our expectations in this call constitute forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements including but not limited to statements relating to the revenue cost and synergy effects of acquisitions cost reduction and tax benefits expected upon the completion of the Macon biomass boiler project raw material inflation consumer demand and pricing trends capital expenditures cash pension contributions and pension expense depreciation and amortization interest expense and refinancing costs debt and leverage reduction performance and EBITDA improvements and cost reduction initiatives are all based on currently available information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's present expectations.
These risks include but are not limited to the company's substantial amount of debt volatility in raw material and energy costs cutbacks in consumer spending that reduce demand for the company's product continuing pressure for lower cost products and the company's ability to implement its business strategies including productivity initiatives and cost reduction plans.
Undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements as such statements speak only as of the date of which they are made and the company undertakes no obligation to update such statements.
Additional information regarding these and other risks is contained in the company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
David I'll turn it over to you now.
Thanks Brad.
Good morning everyone.
We're pleased with our fourth quarter results as adjusted earnings per share improved to $0.08 from $0.02 in the prior-year quarter.
We were able to continue to drive sales and increase our fourth quarter EBITDA margin over 30 basis points to 14.3% in what was a sluggish quarter for some of our key end markets.
Like other consumer-driven sectors we have seen some volatility in the business in the past few months.
Industry volumes in our core markets were solid in October and November and the demand slowed in the mid to late December.
Clearly we experienced some level of customer inventory management as this trend has now reversed itself and demand has been stronger in the early part of this quarter.
Despite the market noise we managed the business tightly in the fourth quarter.
We improved margins and drove cash flow.
New product launches customer wins productivity enhancements acquisition synergies asset optimization and a lower cost of capital remain the driving forces behind our improved results.
For the full year 2012 total volumes increased 2.9% and sales increased 3.1% to $4.3 billion.
Higher operating margins combined with significantly lower interest expense helped increase cash flow from operations by $81 million to $469 million for 2012.
Fourth quarter we generated net performance improvements of roughly $6 million despite incurring $5 million in increased costs for the West Monroe biannual cold outage.
In total we delivered nearly $67 million of performance improvements for the year.
The strong performance helped drive a full year 2012 EBITDA margin of 14.9% up significantly from 14.1% for the full year 2011.
Additionally we made some strategic investments in the business last year to drive long-term sales and grow earnings.
This includes $203 million of capital projects focused on improving our asset utilization and lowering our overall cost structure going forward.
The largest of these 3 projects included the expansion of our Perry Georgia and West Monroe carton facilities and the building of a biomass boiler in our Macon Georgia mill.
The Perry and West Monroe mill -- I'm sorry the Perry and West Monroe carton expansions were completed in 2012 and allowed us to better optimize our converting footprint by consolidating production into these 2 highly efficient plants.
The building of a biomass boiler in Macon Georgia is progressing well and we still expect that it will come online late in the second quarter.
This is an $80 million to $85 million project of which we expect to receive a tax incentive rebate of approximately 30% for the total cost upon project completion.
The boiler will make the mill self-sufficient from an electrical power and steam generation standpoint thereby reducing energy costs and improving the profitability of that facility.
Another area of significant investment in 2012 was the integration of our Flexible Packaging business with the Kraft paper and Multi-Wall Bag business of Delta Natural Kraft and Mid-America Packaging.
The combination created North America's only vertically integrated Multi-Wall Bag business and allows for significant synergies and profit potential going forward.
In fact we expect to achieve full synergy targets in 2013 in the range of $20 million to $25 million.
More recently we announced 2 acquisitions in Europe to build critical mass and improve profitability in this strategically important region.
The acquisition of Contego Packaging and A&amp;R's beverage packaging business creates one of Europe's largest folding carton packaging businesses and significantly expands Graphic's position in the global marketplace.
Similar to our operating model in the U.S.
this provides us with an opportunity to further integrate our board business and expands our share of the global SUS market.
It also expands our relationship with key global accounts such as Kellogs Nestlé General Mills Heineken SABMiller AB InBev and it provides us access to other new accounts in Europe.
Our estimated annualized synergies is between $16 million and $18 million and we expect to achieve them over the next 24 months.
These were the second and third acquisitions we have made in the past 2 years in our core food and beverage business.
Certainly we know how to operate in this space and believe we can generate significant improvement in ROI through a focus on execution and integration of these acquisitions.
In both cases we were able to acquire just the core food and beverage packaging business from Contego and A&amp;R respectively.
These acquisitions provide cost synergies but they also come with some very good intellectual property that will not only be used in Europe but we believe we can translate back to the U.S.
and allow the 2 regions to leverage ideas.
Contego as a microwave business it fits perfectly with our existing microwave platform and the A&amp;R beverage business is focused primarily on the bottled beer market.
This is a market that is growing and one that we must [indiscernible].
Another quarter we have significant improvement in 2012 [indiscernible].
We remain focused on developing new and unique packaging that helps our customers differentiate their products.
We lower their distribution costs and we improve their sustainability metrics throughout and across the entire supply chain.
Our product development teams are focused on 4 main strategic areas.
First corrugated replacement like our success in commercializing Capri-Sun.
Second proprietary glass beer bottle packs called Tite-Pak.
Three away-from-home quick-serve dining solutions.
And four microwave cooking technology.
We are working on new product and issues [ph] in each of these areas and feel very good about our new product pipeline going forward.
Our solid CUK fiber folding carton is clearly a viable substitute for traditional litho-lam corrugated structures.
This new product runs well on existing packaging machinery and offers significant inbound supply chain benefits compared to corrugate.
In addition to Capri-Sun this past year we converted Church &amp; Dwight's 20-pound kitty litter box from corrugated into our heavy caliber CUK carton along with another major U.S.
consumer products company's club store sandwich bags.
In total corrugated replacement growth added $84 million of sales in 2012.
We continue to actively work on targeting the frozen food accounts for continued growth in 2013.
In glass bottles we have developed a new proprietary solution for beer multipacks that reduces package breakage -- reduces actually glass breakage and noise throughout the distribution and handling process.
Our new solution called Tite-Pak offers an alternative to internal partitions in corrugated boxes for the protection of the glass bottles.
This innovation reduces glass breakage in the breweries and the distributors.
We had our first major commercial sales in Q4 and have significant interest from several additional brewers going forward.
The away-from-home market continues to grow.
It was up 14% year-on-year in 2012.
We had considerable success offering our customers enhanced dining solutions led by solid fiber replacement for resin-based packaging.
In 2012 Graphic Packaging was selected successfully to convert a Panera Foods plastic clamshell to solid fiber.
This is annual revenues of greater than $10 million.
GPI has targeted projects in the pipeline for 2013 leveraging its existing innovation technology capabilities to further grow in this core segment.
Our microwave business continues to experience global growth as well largely through new business development.
Our ongoing investment in the development of proprietary products and designs continue to find strong consumer acceptance based on increased convenience coupled with an enhanced cooking experience.
This is a very fast-growing market for us as year over sales increased 8% led by new application proprietary MicroRite even-heating technology.
We will in fact be investing $7 million in new capacity for microwave in 2013.
Strengthening our balance sheet and improving our capital structure continues to be top priorities and we made significant progress throughout the year on both.
In December we completed a secondary public offering that sold 21 million shares of common stock held by our -- 4 of our largest shareholders.
Concurrent with the offering the company also repurchased almost 50 million shares of common stock from selling shareholders for $300 million.
The offering and simultaneous repurchase of shares increased the public float and liquidity of the stock while lowering the number of outstanding shares by almost 12%.
Early in 2012 we also entered into a $2 billion amended and restated senior secured credit facility.
We used the new facility plus cash on hand to repay approximately $1.7 billion of institutional term loans that were due in May of 2014.
The new credit facility provided us with attractively priced financing and gives us the flexibility necessary to meet our operating and strategic goals.
For instance this flexibility allowed us to expand the facility by $300 million to fund the repurchase of shares I just referenced.
Let's talk a little bit more about the business.
Looking closer at the fourth quarter our mills delivered a solid quarter due to improved initiatives in energy conservation throughput efficiencies and lower total fixed costs.
We took our biannual cold outage at our West Monroe Louisiana mill in the fourth quarter.
Dan will speak more to it in his section but the additional downtime related to the plant outage negatively impacted EBITDA by approximately $5 million in the quarter.
After adjusting for the impact of the cold outage our mills generated 11 000 [ph] more tons than the fourth quarter of last year.
This equated to approximately 2% increase in tons per day.
Backlogs for our key CUK and CRB substrates also remain strong at approximately 4-plus weeks.
I'd like to point out that our mills did not take any unplanned downtime during the entire year of 2012 and our board inventories are below 2011 year-end levels on a larger revenue base despite the fact end market demand was less than robust in many of our new segments.
We believe this is a true testament to our growth strategy and our efforts to optimize our board integration.
Looking at folding cartons volume in our global folding carton business remained relatively flat in the fourth quarter despite overall weakness in the market conditions.
Significant volume increases from new business gains offset softness in some of our legacy core markets.
In the fourth quarter ACNielsen estimated that our key categories of cereal and frozen pizza volumes were relatively flat down around 0.5% and 0.7% respectively.
Despite a hard-hitting cold and flu season facial tissue volume was weak in the fourth quarter for us and decreased about 4.5% according to ACNielsen.
Energy [ph] volumes across the canned beverage market increased 1.4% on a year-over-year basis in the fourth quarter according to the Can Manufacturers Institute.
Industry softdrink shipments increased about 0.1% and beer shipments increased about 4% for the quarter.
Reflective of these trends we continue to see solid volume in the beer with shrink in our Kraft and imported business and a softer softdrink business.
Looking at Flexible trends in our Flexible Packaging business remained sluggish though we did see some modest improvement in the fourth quarter.
Flexible Packaging sales increased 13.6% in the fourth quarter due predominantly to the acquisition of Delta Natural Kraft and Mid-America Packaging business in December 2011.
As discussed earlier the new joint venture formed between our legacy Flexible Packaging business and the 2 new companies should enhance both growth and profit profile of this business as we head into 2013.
We did see a slight pickup in our Multi-Wall Bag business in the fourth quarter as the construction market has begun to improve modestly.
However our specialty plastics businesses which includes Shingle Wrap remained somewhat lackluster due to continued weakness in retail and industrial markets for base products.
Looking at pricing and commodities.
For the first time in 2012 pricing declined in the quarter predominantly as a result of the past declines in commodity costs starting to flow through our contracts and some board price movements.
Commodity costs in the fourth quarter remained relatively in line with recent trends as lower costs for secondary fiber continued to provide a tailwind benefiting the fourth quarter by about $11 million.
Not all of our commodity inputs were down however.
Food costs were up roughly $5 million and freight costs were up $3 million year-on-year due primarily to government regulatory changes for driver mandates.
So unfortunately we expect this trend to continue into 2013.
In summary we had a solid quarter and a very good year.
We continue to drive growth through focusing on product innovation asset optimization and selected bolt-on acquisitions.
We're investing in some of our stronger trends in the food and beverage markets such as litho-lam substitution pasta Kraft beer food service and microwave while protecting our core businesses.
We like our positioning.
There are plenty of opportunities to grow in our customer base and lower our cost structure and improve our operating efficiency.
I'm going to now turn the call over to Dan for a more detailed discussion of the financial results.
Thanks David and good morning everyone.
David covered the operational highlights I'll focus on the financial results.
My comments track our posted presentation.
So let's start with Q4 and full year financial highlights on Page 10.
Overall both Q4 and full year financial results were strong.
Our strategic actions improved both operational performance and the company's capital structure.
As you can see on the slide all key metrics improved in the quarter and for the full year 2012.
The work we've completed on both fronts in 2012 has positioned us for a solid start in 2013.
Specifically taking a look at fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA was up 2.5% to over $150 million on the strength of 14.3% EBITDA margins.
Adjusted net income increased from $7 million in Q4 2011 to $33.2 million.
Q4 adjusted earnings per share grew from $0.02 to $0.08.
On a full-year basis EBITDA was up 9.5% to over $647 million.
EBITDA margin expanded to 14.9%.
Adjusted earnings per share grew from $0.26 to $0.37.
We adjusted EBITDA and net income for specific non-recurring items: acquisitions post acquisition integration and capital structure expenses.
During the quarter we incurred $16 million of non-recurring charges related to the 2 European acquisitions share buyback and the completion of the DNK integration.
As all these activities are complete there will be no further charges for these items in 2013.
Turning to Slide 11.
We see that Q4 revenues were essentially flat to the prior year as increased volume was partially offset by lower pricing.
Price givebacks totaling $8.8 million were largely from contractual resets driven by deflation and secondary fiber and resin.
As you will recall the reset mechanisms in our contracts provide for pricing adjustments up or down based on input cost movements and changes in board price.
As explained before the average lag between input cost change and price reset is approximately 9 months.
With respect to full year revenues grew a solid 3.1% to $4.3 billion.
It is important to note that during 2012 along with acquisitions and new product launches we successfully completed the negotiations of an abnormally high number of contracts.
As a result we locked in integrated board volume.
All these actions will lead to a more profitable business mix.
And as a side note the right business mix is a large value driver for us.
It leads to less waste and higher operating rates.
For example during these negotiations we received better grades and better trims which will lead to further optimization through converting and more importantly into the mill system all driving margin expansion.
In 2013 we expect contractual price reductions related to deflation and other resets in the $35 million range.
Overall EBITDA on a year-over-year basis will increase from improved mix further board integration in the mills higher operating rates and expected price increases in paper and paperboard.
These will more than offset the price reductions.
Turning to Slide 12 we see a Q4 EBITDA increase of nearly $4 million to $150 million.
The improvement was driven by our Paperboard Packaging segment as its margin grew to 17.3% from 16.7% in 2011.
For the full year 2012 the EBITDA margin in this core segment improved 100 basis points to 18.3%.
David and I have already covered inflation and price.
Therefore I will concentrate on performance improvement.
In Q4 we realized $6 million of benefit from improved productivity.
The benefit in this category is net of the $5 million in costs incurred from the biannual cold outage at our West Monroe mill.
We continue to execute at a high level with our productivity and cost-cutting initiatives and for the full year 2012 delivered net benefits totaling $67 million.
Looking forward to 2013.
Given the expanded level of investment we made in 2012 we expect to accelerate performance.
Specifically because of the success of the investments made to integrate the Flexible Packaging acquisition and the early completion of the Macon biomass boiler we expect productivity benefits in 2013 to climb into the $90 million to $120 million range.
Key initiatives include the following items: One $70 million to $90 million for continuous improvement and productivity initiatives; two $20 million synergy benefit resulting from the 2011 acquisition of DNK; and three $7 million cost benefit in the Macon mill resulting from the midyear startup of the biomass boiler.
So in summary on an overall basis we expect 2013 EBITDA results to improve on the strength of operating performance mix improvements and continued success with new product introductions.
Now before I move into cash flow a follow-up comment about the 2 European acquisitions.
In 2013 we expect these acquisitions to add $325 million of sales and approximately $20 million of EBITDA.
We will work on integrating these businesses in 2013.
And in 2014 we expect synergy benefits in the $16 million to $18 million range.
Now let's turn to Slide 13 and look at cash flow debt and liquidity.
Cash flow for 2012 was strong as net cash provided by operations improved $81 million over the prior year to $469 million.
Cash flow available for debt reduction grew to $264 million from $220 million last year.
Reduced interest costs and improved operating performance drove the cash flow improvement.
CapEx increased $43 million to $203 million.
The increased capital investment focused on high return projects like the Macon biomass boiler and the integration of DNK.
As we highlighted both of these investments are expected to drive improvement in 2013 results.
Overall our capital investments continue to target projects with less than 3-year paybacks.
For 2013 we expect cash flow available for debt reduction to be in the $250 million range.
Included in this number are one approximately $40 million of expense and capital investment to deliver the Europe synergies.
Two $30 million to refinance our 9.5% 2017 bonds that are callable in June.
And finally as an inflow receipt of a $23 million tax grant for the startup of the biomass boiler.
On a normalized cash flow -- our normalized cash flow without the above strategic investments would be in the $300 million range.
Now turning to debt.
We started Q4 with net leverage right at 3x which is at the top end of our target range.
We executed 3 shareholder accretive actions during Q4 as we raised $300 million of additional term debt to fund a repurchase of over 12% of our outstanding shares and invested over $150 million in the 2 European acquisitions.
These actions resulted in a year-end net leverage ratio of 3.5x almost exactly the same level we began the year with.
We continue to target the 2.5x to 3x leverage ratio range but will as we have communicated before venture outside this range to fund accretive acquisitions and other high-return investments.
However with that said for 2013 our focus is clearly I repeat clearly on applying cash flow to debt reduction and reducing leverage back within our target range.
We have already talked about the European acquisitions but let me expand on the equity market transaction that we undertook in Q4.
First the company completed a secondary share offering on behalf of our 4 largest shareholders.
In total 21.3 million shares were sold thereby improving markets flow by more than 15%.
Concurrently the company repurchased and retired 49.2 million shares from these same shareholders.
The combination of these actions in addition to being 12% EPS accretive increased average trading volume by over 40% to over 1.2 million shares per day and reduced major shareholder ownership from 65% to 53%.
Now sticking with the capital market topics.
I note that our 9.5% notes become callable this June.
Recent bond market activity has been very attractive to issuers and we are evaluating our options as they relate to refinancing these high coupon bonds.
Based on current market yields we expect the refinancing of these bonds will reduce cash interest cost by up to $20 million per year.
And now let's summarize our guidance and I'll move to Slide 14.
And this guidance is for 2013.
Capital expenditures are expected to be in the $215 million to $235 million range.
This higher level of spending is driven by the early completion of the biomass boiler and the integration costs related to the European acquisitions.
Cash pension contributions are projected to be between $40 million and $70 million.
Pension expense of around $40 million.
Depreciation and amortization in the $270 million to $290 million range.
Interest expense of $110 million to $120 million and we expect to achieve net debt reduction of $250 million while funding increased CapEx spending and paying bond refinancing costs of around $30 million.
Our net leverage ratio should end the year around 3x.
And finally a couple of notes about the timing of the net debt reduction in 2013.
The seasonality of our business normally results in an increase in net debt in the first quarter as we build working capital levels.
However given the timing of the European integration in 2013 we're going to get an early start on this and the cost to refinance the 2017 bonds we expect net debt reduction in the first half of 2013 to be moderately behind last year's.
As a result the bulk of the full year 2013 net debt reduction will occur in the second half of the year.
And with that I will turn the call back to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Obviously busy last quarter.
Yes.
It seems like we were doing something every day of the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Just on productivity.
I think if I remember correctly your previous range was $60 million to $80 million sort of an annual basis.
'13 obviously is tracking well above that.
Should we view that as a revising upward of the longer term targets or is that very specific to '13 just based on your situation? It really has -- that performance target that we gave you included the $60 million to $70 million we normally do in CI and it added all the synergy and benefits just instead of trying to break all that out.
So what I would say is it's an increase simply because we have integration synergies in '13 that we didn't necessarily have in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Dan just a cleaning-up question on 4Q.
The $12.5 million in charges for business combinations that you referred to is that purely in flexible? Was there any spillover into paperboard and corporate? Okay.
The non-recurring charges I think totaled $16 million.
They are a combination of things.
They are the final steps in preparing for delivering synergies in 2013.
It is in flexibles.
And so if you look at the flexible operating income number in particular it has the impact of about $12 million in that category that you referenced.
The rest of the stuff is for all the special activity we took in terms of the share buyback and the secondary offering in particular and there are some costs in there for the 2 acquisitions.
That's why the number's fairly large.
Research Division</strong> Got it got it.
And then David one last question.
In terms of the fourth quarter intra quarter trend any big deviation there? A lot of your peers were talking about aggressive end market de-stocking.
Did you see something comparable to that? And then if you could just give us some early read on January that would be helpful.
Yes.
So as I said in my prepared comments the -- October November were pretty good up until about the 15th of December.
But then from the 15th of December we saw some pretty significant change in order patterns particularly on the food side of the equation and in beverage but less so.
So yes we saw a marked drop-off at the end of the year.
I think what I would tell you is it's hard to read.
I would tell you it looked like inventory de-stocking because certainly in January the early trends are good.
Our backlogs are solid in both folding carton both for beverage and in food but also a pull for board.
We're busy.
Our backlogs are 4 to 5 weeks in the board mills as well.
So it felt like a de-stocking.
But I've almost given up forecasting what's going on on a forward basis.
What I would tell you is we feel good about where we started the year but we got 11 months.
Your next question comes from line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> In the flexible segment in '13 do you think you can improve your profitability above and beyond the $20 to $25 million synergy number that you're expecting? Well I'd like to say yes.
The fact of the matter is a lot of it will depend upon how much recovery we see in those core industrial markets.
If the construction market does improve because a lot of that business is tied into things like chemicals that go into construction it's cement that goes into construction in that multi-wall bag sector then I think yes.
Otherwise I would tell you the trends in that business have been pretty flat.
And so right now if you look at our forwards we're projecting the improvement will be predominantly related to the integration synergies.
We'd like to see some tailwind in there but we just -- January was better but not like -- not a barnburner of recovery in that space.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful color Dave.
And then on pricing was your comment that you expect to give back about $35 million of pricing for the full year '13? Yes that's correct.
It'll flow through the year but it's mostly related to deflationary stuff that we saw last year.
There were some contract resets.
For sure there's some resin pricing in there as well because it moves around.
But yes it's about $35 million of pricing flowing through in 2013.
Then of course then that reverses itself.
As you remember as I've said with the 9-month lookbacks that reverses itself in 2014.
So we sort of have a continuum because we had pretty significant changes in input.
I think input inflation this year if I'm looking forward it's probably going to be somewhere around $25 million $30 million or something like that maybe depending on what happens to OCC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a follow-up on that.
I believe there was a price increase on CUK in the marketplace.
If that is successful would there be potential upside to the [indiscernible] number that you have out there that maybe instead of dropping $35 million it doesn't drop by that amount if that price increase should be successful or is that included in your outlook? I didn't really change a lot because quite frankly with the current price increase it takes quite a few months for that to flow through.
The impact in 2013 wouldn't be material right? If you look at the same 6-month 9-month delay a first quarter increase really doesn't have a material impact on our business in 2013.
It will in 2014 but not necessarily in '13.
Our open market business will see that.
But we only do about a couple of hundred thousand tons a year in the open market in the United States.
And of course -- but don't forget there's also a price increase out there on Kraft paper and that will have some positive impact as well.
That market is kind of tight as well in the process.
So what I would tell you is pricing trends will start to turn because people will -- as these inflation -- as we start to see inflation in wood and OCC you're going to start to see prices from us at least increase to try and overcome those as we look to the second half of the year and towards 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last question.
Is the way that you pass-through your changes in OCC costs is that any different than the way other input costs are passed through to your customer base? The input costs all really basically flow through the same.
It's just a sort of look-back plan.
You look at what costs for wood and chemicals and energy so on and so forth.
And then you figure out what that average increase is and when the contract anniversary hits you start a new pricing scenario up or down depending on that flow.
And we use OCC as a proxy for that discussion because it tends to be the most volatile of the process but that doesn't mean we don't get recovery from chemicals and other things as well.
It's just that that's the bigger -- by far and away the most important in a single input cost.
Just one final comment.
When we talk about that in fairness we do not get or blow through labor increase.
So if you think about benefits in labor of $30 million a year those we get we improve those profitability through the improvement in our plan.
We do not pass-through our labor and benefit costs.
Your next question comes from the line of Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow-up on some of the commentary around the benefits you're expecting from the mix shift and the new product introductions.
Is there any way to kind of calibrate perhaps relative to some of these offsets how much those would impact it to the positive? Yes I think Phil you saw when we went over the productivity improvements we increased the range from our normal range of $60 million $80 million from $90 million to $120 million.
It's included in that number particularly when you look at the first -- the #1 item I talked about is our normal ongoing CI work and productivity work.
I cited $70 million to $90 million.
So it is included in that number.
So you can infer that the increase over our historical average will give you what the increase is for that year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that includes mix and new product introductions? Right yes for the most part it does.
To the extent that we know but yes that's right.
Yes I mean we expect -- you sort of think through the puts and the takes.
If you think about it we would expect EBITDA to grow $35 million to $45 million next year or something like that in that range by the end of the year something like that.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay that's very helpful.
A follow-up question here.
You'd talked about the $84 million in corrugated replacement that you saw this year.
I'm just kind of wondering how you're thinking about how that progresses in 2013 especially with Tite-Pak that you've just introduced which seems like another opportunity there.
So is that something that you think can accelerate as we head into 2013 or is it kind of more of the same? It tends to be chunky.
We're certainly not going to see something to the extent of Capri-Sun every year that we saw last year which was a big movement.
We're going to continue to see that corrugate replacement or other substrate replacement every year.
So the trend is good.
It becomes chunky for things like that.
You'll see in addition to the $10 million or $15 million change in the process -- I'm sorry change in the substitution but that's the kind of the range of the projects that we work on.
Tite-Pak is a great opportunity because clearly there is corrugated replacement there.
It allows our customers to save bottle breakage in the process and so we're real happy with that.
But it takes a while.
We'll run some trials.
We'll modify some machines.
Customers will do the distribution trials.
It takes a while to scale up.
It won't take nearly as long as Capri-Sun did which was almost 7 years I guess.
But nonetheless I like the forward trends in those kinds of substitutions.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And is there anywhere where you're actually seeing the reverse where you feel like CUK might be losing shares anywhere? Or how are you thinking about that? Well we haven't really seen CUK losing share.
We have a constant battle of plastics from one side to the other.
I don't think it's substrate specific relative to CUK or CRB or SBS.
It's really more paperboard plastic back and forth.
Something less or more convenient or that kind of give-and-take goes on throughout the business.
I haven't really seen a -- like I said we grew our CUK tons.
We sold more tons.
Our backlogs are strong.
I don't really -- I haven't seen anything that would suggest that we're losing ground on CUK.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
Last question for Dan.
That normalized cash flow of $300 million is that something we expect to see in 2014? Currently based on the fact that there's no pending acquisitions and those types of things we're trying to integrate and our capital structure will be in good shape.
We won't -- we probably won't have to refinance another bond at that level.
I would expect that that would be a good number to build on for 2014.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So that $40 million in that additional spend I believe that you said it was for the integration et cetera is that all in CapEx or is some of that operating? Some of that will be in expense as well.
My current -- if I were to estimate that the expense would be like $10 million of the $40 million.
And what we'll do when we report the numbers we will break that out and there will be certain costs involved in the refinancing of the bond as well and we'll break that out as well so you'll be able to see more of an operating EBITDA number.
And I guess I would offer this too is that in 2013 we're going to be very focused on generating cash to pay back the debt that we borrowed to do the share repurchase and these acquisitions.
So from time to time we may spend some EBITDA to get better cash flow quicker because for us the best thing for our shareholders is to generate the cash to pay down the debt that we borrowed.
And so we'll see.
That's why I hedge on some of the EBITDA stuff because in the past that's what we've done.
And I want to make sure that we pay back what we borrowed.
We want to get back into that range because we want the flexibility to be able to strategically invest in the business and I'm not really comfortable making huge investments when we're 3.5x.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos with BofA Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I guess I had a couple of questions on the incremental volume and the sort of abnormally large number of contract renewals that you had going into this year.
I'm assuming that the benefit of mix of volume et cetera is embedded in that $90 million to $120 million that you provided.
Is that correct Dave? That's correct.
Yes we get a breath here in 2013.
We really just don't have any major contract renewals that are facing us in 2013.
'12 was incredible but we did factor that kind of pricing changes to change to mix optimize so that we -- Dan sort of rolled that all into that performance improvement continuous improvement.
The other thing you've got to remember is that although -- what I will tell you is that all the continuous improvement stuff it's really based on volume running through the mills and running through the carton.
So both pricing and performance is tied to volume.
To the extent that volume is greater or less then those numbers sort of move around based on that.
We're giving you the best estimate we can based on what our customers are telling their volume.
But in fairness there -- our customers have been no better at forecasting volume than we have been in the last couple of years.
Research Division</strong> Yes join the back of the line on that.
In terms of the next series of contracts were you able to stagger things such that you don't have a very heavy year whenever that might be down the road? And so you've staged it so you have more of a smooth annual progression in terms of renewals? Or is there another year say 3 years 5 years from that that we have to be cognizant anyway in terms of your heavier-than-normal renewal period? Well some of those contracts are 3 some are 5 so it'll stagger out.
But I think for the most part -- I think if you sort of think about it you and I worrying about contract renegotiations 3 to 5 years from now probably is not the #1 thing we should think about or worry about in the business climate.
I'd be a lot more concerned about government regulations in China and other global than my contracts 3 to 5 years out.
I'm happy to get them done.
Certainly we gave price to be able to do it but our core was to be able to make sure that we could optimize back through the mills.
That's where our cash and EBITDA comes from.
So all in all I'm pleased with where we ended up.
And 3 to 5 years from now things will -- we'll have plenty of time and room to deal with those.
Research Division</strong> But that's the timeframe we're talking about.
It's not 2 years from now from what you're saying.
No no no.
We didn't renew any contracts in a 2-year period of time.
Because we can't make the investments.
I mean we can't really optimize the business in a 2-year period that's why they have to be 3- to 5-year contracts.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough fair enough.
Next question I had in terms of Contego and A&amp;R you gave the incremental revenue and EBITDA and we appreciate that it's more or less in line with where we're thinking.
What is the net incremental tonnage that we'll be seeing in terms of your overall figures? I realize ultimately we should focus on revenue and square meters per se not tonnage but as I recall there's some opportunity for you to forward integrate from existing tons that you have into these acquisitions.
So what do you think the net incremental might be in terms of tonnage? So if I think about it those 2 businesses combined are probably as we say in the space cutting up 180 000 ton of board.
And all of that is not stuff that we make.
Well we actually -- in fairness we do make most all of those but it's unlikely George that we're going to be shipping CRB across the space.
We'll be a buyer for the most part of CRB.
It doesn't mean some of that business over time -- 50 000 tons of it is SUS around the space.
And so over time we'll probably optimize some of that SUS back into our business.
Or as our U.S.
business grows we'll export less to Europe and buy our tons in Europe as opposed to buying them here.
There are also some CRB applications over there that quite frankly we think we'd be better served using virgin board and we'll look to do that as well.
And that's not a #1 priority for us.
It's getting the manufacturing footprint in some of the initial direct replacement for board done but over time that's where some of those productivity profitability improvements will come in those businesses.
But as Dan says we're going to spend a fair amount of dollars this year getting the presses right getting the plans right getting the footprints in a place where we can optimize.
It makes no sense to be optimizing all that while you're moving a whole bunch of stuff around.
We've done it that way before it doesn't really work.
What we learned from the Altivity acquisition is get it done get the plants right first and then aggressively do the board optimization second.
And I think that's a model we're going to use for Europe albeit on a smaller scale.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Two last ones and I'll turn it over.
Realizing it's kind of difficult to talk about this on a public forum is there anything you could add in terms of what's unique about the microwavable technology? I think you said you got it from Contego.
And then just in general it's been a trend and a question that we've all asked at times are you seeing -- over the last few quarters are you seeing any effect at all from the incremental paperboard capacity that's coming on in Asia relative to your overall business? So microwave.
The access we got in Contego was the fact that they are selling microwave products in Europe but they're not necessarily using our technology.
So we have the opportunity to sort of upgrade the technology in transition.
So we're pretty excited about that.
Relative to China board I know that question keeps coming up and we haven't directly seen anything in either Europe or United States here yet impacting that business.
I think a lot of that SBS that you're seeing or SBS-type products are not necessarily going to be food contact or direct food substrate SBS which is really all we buy.
As you can well imagine there's a lot of reasons why that inner recycled sheet that they're using is not great for food.
And you can also understand why a lot of our customers aren't all that excited about buying SBS from China for a whole variety of reasons.
So we haven't yet seen it in our core business.
That's probably a better question for John Luke and Jim Rubright because those guys are more directly in that business than we are.
Your next question comes from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> When we look out at 2014 what's a more normalized CapEx? I know you guys are spending quite a bit to get those synergies.
Normalized CapEx we're talking about with the addition of Europe larger business we're thinking $180 million to $185 million range would be a normalized level for CapEx.
Some years will be lower some years will be higher but that's a good average.
I agree.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then from a working cap standpoint you've got a bigger business in Europe I would imagine you're shipping some board produced in U.S.
to Europe.
Does that impact your working cap at all? It will initially.
As I said earlier one of the strategic opportunities we have is as we grow the European business -- as we grow the United States business is to not ship as much board over there and buy the board over there which helps the working capital.
But in the short term we'll probably expand our board sales and we'll see some incremental working capital.
And terms are going to be longer in Europe because that's been nature of the business.
Into Dan's cash flow projection -- it's not as if we missed that.
So into our cash flow projections included the expansion in working capital to run a European and a bigger global business right? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And from a demand perspective I mean the overall market's tough to predict but you do have some new products coming online.
Do you still expect to outpace the market in 2013 from a growth standpoint? Well I guess the question is what the heck is the market? What I would tell you is we did not do build a lot of volume growth into our business in 2013.
You could just follow the bouncing ball through my comments and recognize that most of the volume is really what we've required.
And I think softdrink's going to be -- again decline.
I think beer is going to continue to grow.
We've certainly seen those trends.
The food business feels better but not robust.
And then the big wild card for me is trying to figure out what flexible is going to do in 2013.
So when I put all the puts and takes when I put our plan together and I talk to our board I'm seeing pretty flat growth.
I'd love it to be different.
1% growth in the market for Graphic Packaging is hugely leveraging but I'm not doubling down on that.
I think what we will do is we'll run our business improve our cash flow and EBITDA based on sort of what we have in front of us.
And that's really the way we're sort of planning for 2013.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on Flexible Packaging if I look at the run rate the last 2 quarters it's been in a $5 million-type loss run rate.
I know there's some one-offs in Q4.
Going forward is it a good way to think about that business using that run rate plus the synergies for 2013? I think that's fair.
Yes.
Because when we look at it and -- as we look at it internally and we add back some of the unusual non-recurring items we do see EBITDA improvement in 2012 over 2011.
And once we get all the noise out of the system and we start getting the $20 million of synergies I think you'll like the result a lot better.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last question for Dan.
Your tax rate bounces quite a bit.
How should we be thinking about it in 2013? And then the cash tax rate as well I know you still have a good amount of NOL but you have a bigger business in Europe now.
So how should we be thinking about tax on the P&amp;L and the cash tax for the cash flow statement? Well for 2013 if you take our tax expense 39% to 40% I think is a good estimate for that.
Going forward after we do the work in Europe we'll be able to use that to lower our effective tax rate.
And we'll see what that is as we move into 2014.
In terms of cash taxes we're looking at somewhere around $10 million to $15 million in terms of cash taxes for 2013.
Your final question comes from the line of Joe Stivaletti of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple little things.
You talked about refinancing your bond issue.
I was just wondering what your current thinking is on sort of your mix of bonds versus bank loans and what you would expect to use to take out that bond issue when it's callable? Our expectation is that based on the rates for an 8- to 10-year bond we would issue another set of bonds to take out the 2017s.
Our expectation is that in addition to a lower rate we would get a better comp [ph] package as well when we do that which is attractive to us and will be important to shareholders.
So that's our expectation there.
In terms of the overall mix we're going to be in pretty good shape for several years after we refinance this bond.
So it depends on -- we're happy with our mix today based on the cost of debt and the flexibility we have with the new arrangements we've put in place.
And as the future unveils itself we'll look at whether there's a better mix or not.
But today we're pretty happy with the cost of our debt and the opportunity we have to refinance this bond.
I mean I think Joe that's the other side of the equation why we're so focused on getting the cash flow down -- or the debt down.
We wanted to use the cash flow to do that.
And maybe work on our credit ratings so that as the interest markets change over time and ultimately -- it seems unlikely with all the money that the Fed is printing that at some point in time these trends don't change.
And we want to make sure that we're in a place where if that's the case we don't have significant increase in interest costs.
So we're trying to get ourselves in a place where we're making strategic investments but keeping a pretty good eye on the balance sheet to keep the mix where we need to be.
Because right now I think that's pretty darn cheap but it won't always be.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay great.
And the other question was just I know you'd talked about potential future acquisitions and there's nothing immediate or -- you're very focused on keeping your leverage down and whatnot.
But I just wondered as you think about potential future acquisitions whether they'd be this year next year whenever what types of -- what's at the high end of the priority list in terms of types of things the types of areas where you would like to expand? Well the model that's worked for us has continued to be is to make the investments and the acquisitions in the converting business and then blow that forward lean back through the paperboard mills.
And that's -- we're going to continue to do that.
So regionally look I've said before I'd like us to be a bigger in Latin America than we currently are.
And if there's good assets available down there we're going to buy them.
Europe I think we could do more in Western Europe but I believe Eastern Europe is a better -- is a good place for us as well.
I like our plan in China which is not really to buy a whole bunch of converting assets over there.
I like the converting network over there it's an incredibly low-cost converting network over there.
It's just as easy to design the products and pull the board through than it is to sort of build on the ground converting in China.
So I don't know that a big acquisition in Asia-Pacific makes a whole lot of sense.
And then and I've said this before in a public forum is that we don't really -- the only substrate we really don't make that we convert a lot is SBS.
And so as companies reassess their strategic goals and strategic assets you never know when somebody might want to spit out an SBS mill and we're certainly interested in those kinds of things.
But that's sort of where the list -- how our list forms.
Ladies and gentlemen we have reached the end of the allotted time for questions and answers.
I'll now turn the call back over to our speakers for any closing comments.
Yes.
Thanks everybody for joining the call and we'll talk to you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is David and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Graphic Packaging First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to Brad Ankerholz Treasurer and Vice President.
Mr.
Ankerholz you may begin your conference.
Thank you David and welcome everybody to the Graphic Packaging Holding Company's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
Commenting on our result this morning are David Scheible the company's President and CEO; and Dan Blount our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
To help you along with today's call we have provided a slide presentation which can be accessed by clicking on the Q1 Earnings webcast link on the Investor Relations section of our website which is located at graphicpkg.com.
I would like to remind everyone that statements of our expectations in this call constitute forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements including but not limited to statements relating to the effect of our recent acquisitions and costs and synergies related thereto completion of the Macon biomass boiler project and the related tax benefit raw material inflation costs consumer demand and pricing trends capital expenditures cash pension contributions and pension expense depreciation and amortization interest expense income tax rates debt and leverage reduction annual cash flow performance improvements particularly at our Pine Bluff mill in New Philadelphia multi-wall bag facility and cost reduction initiatives are based on currently available information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's present expectations.
These risks include but are not limited to the company's substantial amount of debt volatility in raw material and energy costs cutbacks in consumer spending that reduce demand for the company's products continuing pressure for lower cost products and the company's ability to implement its strategies including productivity initiatives and cost reduction plans.
Undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements as such statements speak only as of the date of which they are made and the company undertakes no obligation to update such statements.
Additionally information regarding these and other risks is contained in the company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
David I'll turn it over to you now.
Thanks Brad.
Good morning everyone.
Our first quarter results were in line with our expectations and we're pleased with our ability to continue to grow the business in a challenging environment.
Unseasonably cold weather undoubtedly curtailed demand in some of our core end markets like beverage but we believe really the more important factors were high unemployment rate increased taxes and fuel prices that weighed on discretionary consumer spending having a much broader impact in Q1.
Despite these conditions in the first quarter we grew our volume sales and margins.
Volumes in our core paperboard segment grew 7% total sales increased 3% and adjusted EBITDA margin increased 60 basis points to 14.7%.
The increase in our folding carton volume outpaced the industry further evidenced that we are winning new business and taking market share through our strategic focus on developing new products optimizing our asset base and pursuing bolt-on acquisitions.
Sales of newly commercialized products were robust in the first quarter and continue to drive our growth.
Corrugated replacement strength packaging microwave cook technology quick serve dining solutions and our proprietary beer bottle cartons called Tite-Pak remained our primary focus this quarter.
We continue to work on new initiatives in each of these areas and I feel good about our new product pipeline at this point.
A good example of this growth occurred in the first quarter as we began providing an innovative packaging sleeve for McDonald's new Premium McWrap.
The premium McWrap is the newest item in McDonald's line of premium entrées.
Our pillow-pack style folding carton fits snugly around the product and features a convenient perforated pull tab that allows customers to remove the top half of the sleeve and easily eat the wrap right out of the sleeve.
The new packaging was featured in the release of the McWrap and it's currently highlighted on a national television campaign.
Our packaging is a combination of form function style and it's a great example of how we are helping our customers differentiate their products through innovative new packaging ideas.
New products certainly help drive growth but honestly it was our performance improvement that drove margin expansion.
We generated $23 million of performance improvements in the first quarter and continued to make strategic investments in the business to support our long-term growth objectives.
The business of -- the building the biomass boiler in our Macon facility is almost complete and on schedule to begin operating late in this quarter.
This is an $85 million project and we expect to receive a tax incentive rebate following the project's completion.
The boiler will make the mill self-sufficient from electrical power and steam generation standpoint thereby reducing our energy costs and improving our profitability.
The integration of our recently acquired Contego Packaging and A&amp;R beverage packaging businesses in Europe is progressing according to plan and we are aggressively working on new business opportunities from the expanded operations.
We've already made progress in synergies for purchasing and supply chain optimization.
During 2013 we will make decisions in how we maximize our European footprint to improve our long-term strategic position and to reduce our costs.
The environment in Europe is challenging.
I think even more so than North America for revenue but we are confident in our ability to generate a significant ROI through our focus on execution and the integration of the business.
The combination of Contego Packaging and A&amp;R beverage packaging business with Graphic's legacy operations creates one of Europe's largest folding carton packaging business.
And it gives us critical mass to improve profitably and expand our global footprint.
Look I'm really pleased with our progress thus far.
The integration of our Flexible business with the Kraft paper and Multi-Wall business of Delta Natural Kraft and Mid-America Packaging is also progressing.
But while we had a solid execution quarter on paperboard we experienced some operational issues at our Kraft paper mill in Pine Bluff Arkansas and our New Philadelphia Ohio multi-wall bag facility during this quarter.
We recently installed new equipment and systems aimed at improving fiber yields and throughput at the mill but we have been slow to achieve the production yields we had hoped.
The Pine Bluff production issues forced us to forgo open market sales as well as buy more expensive Kraft paper externally for our own converting network.
The new management team at Pine Bluff is working through these issues and we are seeing improvement already and we expect to be in normal production rates over the next few months but it was a negative impact this quarter.
We also have had a great deal of focus at our new Philadelphia multi-wall bag converting plant and that also expect performance to improve in the second quarter there.
The synergies from the transfer of the business from the Twinsburg Ohio plant have been slower than expected.
The combined impact in the quarter between the mills and the converting businesses was approximately $8 million.
And while we have seen significant progress in March and April we have a lot of work to do in both facilities.
We're tracking to our synergy goals of $20 million for the year as a result predominantly of integrating the mill's Kraft paper into our own operations.
But the production issues left revenues and margin well short of our expectations which will temper results during the first half of this year.
We can generate double-digit operating margins in this business but I acknowledge there is a lot of work to be done yet.
Turning to paperboard.
Our mills had another strong production quarter driven by improvement initiatives in energy operating efficiencies and lower fixed costs.
We took no unplanned downtime and had a 3% increase in tons per day yielding 14 000 more tons this year than a year ago.
Even with a higher production levels strong demand for CRB and SUS outstripped our internal supply and we purchased board on the outside during the quarter.
In summary we produced more tons serviced our increased demand and appropriately managed inventory levels across the sector.
Let's talk a little bit about folding carton.
Volume in our global folding carton business increased 8% of the first quarter driven by our European acquisitions and the legacy folding carton operations.
The first quarter ACNielsen data through March 16 indicated that volumes in 2 of our key categories of cereal and frozen pizza decreased 1.4% and increased 1.8% respectively.
We're encouraged by the increase in frozen pizza volumes actually it's been a while.
You'll remember in the fourth quarter we actually saw a decrease in that space of about 0.7%.
Facial tissue also rebounded in the quarter with volume increasing 2% after a 4.5% decrease in the fourth quarter.
Dry foods were also up in the quarter increasing about 0.5% across the industry.
Weather high fuel prices and higher payroll taxes negatively impacted the Away From Home category overall and we saw some volume decline in this sector year-on-year.
Looking at beverage.
Industry volume trends across the can market in the United States and Canada decreased about 3.3% on a year-over-year basis.
This is according to Can Manufacturers Institute.
Industry soft drink shipments decreased 3.8% and beer shipments decreased about 2.5% for the quarter.
Graphic Packaging's beer trends have however been solid with particular strength in our craft and imported beer business.
Big beer brands for the major breweries may have been handicapped by unseasonably cold water compared to last year and it gets hard to really estimate.
The soft drink market continues to experience issues that are negatively impacting overall demand as well.
However we had some benefit as the take-home channel outperformed the on-premise channel in the quarter.
Talking about flexible packaging from an external standpoint trends in that business remained weak in the first quarter.
As I mentioned earlier we had operational issues which also negatively impacted the business.
Flexible packaging decreased sales by nearly $20 million or 11% in the quarter.
The decrease was primarily the result of continued weakness in the key end-use markets including construction and agriculture.
While the planned shift from internal -- external sales to internal consumption of Pine Bluff paper accounted for around $5 million of the decline.
The aforementioned production issues and lower pricing accounted for the remainder of decline.
We had no paper so we didn't sell it.
As I mentioned we are confident the production issues are being addressed and this business should achieve its production yields and targets for later this year.
Let's talk about pricing and commodity costs overall.
Overall pricing declined about $5 million in the first quarter.
This is in line with our expectations.
As we discussed on our fourth quarter call we expect pricing decline approximately $30 million this year as a result of the pricing reset mechanisms built into our current contracts.
Remember these mechanisms are look back over a 6 to 9-month period and they adjust pricing up or down based on changes in commodity costs.
Last year commodity prices declined in the middle of the year and our contracts are in the process of being reset at those low prices.
Total input costs were essentially flat on a year-on-year basis in the first quarter.
Recycled fiber was down $13 a ton from last year but it was up $15 a ton sequentially in Q1.
And we expect it to trend up further throughout the remainder of 2013.
Natural gas costs were flat year-on-year this quarter but we expect both secondary fiber and natural gas-based energy to be the primary drivers of input inflation the rest of 2013.
Freight and wood costs were moderately higher than 2012.
Wood was really driven by wet weather conditions in the southeast.
It increases the difficulty of getting into the forest and it pushed up wood prices slightly but this will normalize as we move through the rest of the year.
Oil prices have moderated somewhat in Q2 but higher diesel prices in Q1 increased our overall freight cost.
Right now I think it's pretty hard to predict the impact on fuel TiO2 and chemicals with any high that -- with really a high level of variability in overall global demand but it would appear for the back half of 2013 increases in these inputs will be relatively modest for Graphic Packaging.
Relative to pricing we have some catch up to do in terms of inflation recovery from late 2012 and Q1 of this year.
So it is not a surprise we have begun to recognize increases in paperboard prices.
We recently reported a $20 a ton increase per CUK and $25 a ton increase per CRB in April.
This comes on a yield of a $20 per ton CUK price increase announcement in March.
This should benefit our sales on board in the open market in 2013 and to begin to benefit contract pricing later this year and into next year setting a positive backdrop for pricing as we head into 2014.
Before I go into the 2013 outlook I'll just like to fill you in on a secondary market transaction that was executed in March.
Most of you know that 4 of our largest shareholders sold an aggregate of 32 million shares during the quarter.
This transaction reduced their combined holdings from 53% to 44% of total shares.
These same shareholders also completed a secondary offering last December.
The offer increased the public float and the liquidity of our stock.
Since the March offering the average daily trading volume in our stock has been nearly 2.7 million shares.
This compares to approximately 1.2 million shares the month before the offering and only 865 000 shares prior to the December 2012 offering.
So we believe these secondary market transitions have proved beneficial to all shareholders.
Looking forward in conclusion we had a solid first quarter.
We grow volume increases with new customer wins and acquired business.
We expanded operating margins with performance improvements and we continue to invest our future growth and we manage our assets to adapt our business around our customers' changing needs.
I sure would like to see a pickup in end-market demand and I did not expect to be bouncing along the bottom this far into this economic recovery but we know we can grow sales and earnings by helping our customers differentiate their products lower their distribution costs and improve their sustainability metrics.
Our overall performance were solid but we have some operational issues in our flexible business which we are addressing vigorously.
Finally on the capital structure side of the business I think it's important to reiterate our commitment to further debt reduction from operating cash flows.
And our expectation is to be at the top end of our 2.5x to 3x net leverage ratio at year end.
I'll now turn it over to Dan and he can give you more detailed discussions of the financial results.
Thanks David and good morning everyone.
David covered the operational highlights I'll focus on financial results.
My comments track our posted presentation.
Let's start with Q1 highlights on Page 12.
Overall Q1 financial results show continued improvement with both operational performance and our capital structure.
As you can see all of our key financial metrics improved in the quarter.
Our top line grew over 3%.
Adjusted EBITDA was up almost 8% on the strength of 14.7% EBITDA margins.
And finally mainly driven by productivity improvements adjusted earnings per share grew $0.04 to $0.10 for the quarter.
As is our practice we adjusted EBITDA and net income for a specific nonrecurring acquisition post- acquisition integration and capital structure expenses.
For 2013 we expect adjustments to result from integrating our 2 European acquisitions and refinancing high-cost debt.
As a reminder the investments in Europe are expected to achieve nearly $20 million of synergy benefits and the refinancing will generate approximately $20 million of interest expense savings.
For Q1 the add backs are small $1.4 million for EBITDA and less than $1 million for net income.
Turning to Slide 13.
We see that Q1 revenues grew by more than $33 million to $1.1 billion.
The increase was driven by $42 million of higher volume primarily related to the recent European acquisitions and organic volume growth in Paperboard Packaging partially offset by weaker flexible packaging sales.
As David already covered the volume improvement I'll concentrate my comments on price.
During our last call we stated that we expected price headwinds of around $35 million in 2013.
This is resulting from the pass-through of 2012 input inflation.
As you will recall the reset mechanisms in our contracts provide for pricing adjustments.
Up or down based on input cost movements and changes in board price with an average lag of approximately 9 months.
Recently we revised our estimate of the price reset closer to $30 million.
The change reflects paperboard price increases that have already been recognized this quarter.
Looking at the timing of the contractual price resets we saw a $5 million reduction in Q1.
We expect the remaining price resets of $25 million which depend really on mix and volume will occur over the next 2 quarters with the bulk hitting the second quarter.
By Q4 we expect to have cycled through the reductions and price should turn slightly positive as we realize the paperboard price increases.
Looking to 2014 we expect contractual price resets to return to a more normal behavior as we will realize price increases to recover 2013 commodity inflation.
Now turning to Slide 14.
We see a Q1 EBITDA increase of approximately $12 million to $162 million.
The big driver behind the earnings improvement strong performance of $23 million price volume mix and inflation had relatively modest impact.
As David discussed our mills performed particularly well during the quarter producing over 3% more tons per day than last year.
David also mentioned that our performance numbers would have been better if it had not been for our production problems in our Flexible Packaging segment.
Now let me tell you what this means as we think about performance improvement for the next quarter and the total for the year.
First the production issues in Flexible Packaging are disappointing but we do know the root causes and corrective actions are being implemented.
Second even with the challenges in Flexible performance in Q1 was solid as we overachieved in other businesses especially our mills and hit our cost-reduction targets.
In fact based on year-to-date performance we expect to achieve annual productivity benefits at the high end of the $90 million to $120 million range we cited last call.
Now looking at timing we expect second quarter performance improvement to be in line with Q1.
For Q3 and Q4 we expect performance benefits to grow as we reduce the production issues in Flexible and the benefits of the biomass boiler begin to be realized.
The boiler is expected to come online within the next 60 days.
As for input costs our financial results show virtually no inflation impact this quarter.
Inflationary increases we saw for energy and wood were offset by continued favorable -- favorability in secondary fiber as David outlined.
Right now due to volatility it is difficult to predict commodity input cost behavior but given recent increases in key energy and fiber inputs we expect relatively moderate commodity inflation for the remainder of 2013.
Heading into Q2 recycled fiber is up $15 per ton sequentially and we consume around 250 000 tons a quarter.
Natural gas is up $2 per MMBtu over the price we paid in Q2 last year and we use around 3 million MMBtus per quarter.
In addition we are seeing modest increases in transportation wood and chemicals.
And also as a side note I do want to mention that our natural gas usage will decline later this year as the Macon biomass boiler becomes operational.
Now to summarize for 2013 we expect the EBITDA to improve on the strength of operating performance mixed improvements and volume growth.
The operating improvements will more than offset the contractual price resets resulting from 2012 deflation.
In terms of quarterly EBITDA results we expect Q2 EBITDA to be in line with the prior year as the majority of the price resets hit that quarter.
Q3 and Q4 EBITDA are expected to outpace the prior year.
Now turning to Slide 15 let's look at cash flow debt and liquidity.
As is the case every year the seasonality of our business causes a use of cash during the first quarter.
As expected net debt increased by $52 million in the quarter.
Now looking at the $24 million increase over last year a lot was timing related with the key drivers being the timing and amount of incentive compensation working capital plus we accelerated pension payments.
For the full year we continue to expect net debt reduction of $250 million and to end the year with our leverage ratio dropping into the top end of our 2.5x to 3x target range.
Our leverage is currently at 3.5x and we have ample liquidity of $600 million.
Turning back to the full year net debt reduction the $250 million a reminder that this year's cash flow will include 3 non-repeating items: First we will invest $40 million to integrate Europe and drive $20 million of post-acquisition synergies.
Second we'll early call and refinance our high cost 9.5% bond which will result in a cash use of $28 million.
And as a special cash inflow we expect to receive a cash tax rebate of more than $20 million after the startup of the Macon biomass boiler.
Now considering these nonrecurring items our 2013 normalized cash flow would be in the $300 million range.
To improve our debt profile earlier this month we made the opportunistic move to issue $420 million of 4 3/4% 8-year notes.
The proceeds will be used to redeem our 9.5% notes on June 15 when they are first callable.
The attractive debt markets prompted us to act before the call date.
We minimized the double interest penalty by temporarily using the new bond proceeds to reduce the balance of our revolving credit line.
Overall we are pleased with the execution as the new notes in addition to lowering cost provide us with a flexible covenant package including a sizable restricted payment and dividend basket.
In addition we will save $20 million in annual interest and reduce our average cost of debt to less than 3.5%.
Now before moving to guidance I do want to make a note that we will incur a charge in the second quarter of approximately $20 million related to the call premium and write off of debt issue costs related to the old bonds.
And now let's move to Slide 16 and I'll refresh some of our guidance for 2013.
Capital expenditures are expected to be in the $215 million to $235 million range.
The higher level of spending is driven by the completion of the biomass boiler and the integration investments related to European acquisitions.
Cash pension contributions are projected to be between $40 million and $70 million pension expense of around $40 million of which $38 million is pension amortization.
Depreciation and intangible amortization in the $270 million to $290 million range; interest expense of $105 million to $115 million; we'll achieve our net debt reduction of $250 million and reach the top end of our leverage target range and as I mentioned during the last call the bulk of this debt reduction will occur in the second half of the year as the bond refinancing costs and the final Macon biomass spend will occur in the second quarter.
And with those comments I will turn the call back to the operator for questions and answers.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with RWB.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Matt Wooten sitting in for Ghansham today.
I was hoping that you guys could provide some additional detail on Contego and A&amp;R in terms of the EBITDA contribution in the quarter.
And I know it's still early but do you guys already ahead of schedule on the $20 million synergy target? Most of those synergy targets as you know were really going to be in 2014.
So all we've really done so far is start some of the purchasing work and some of the headcount adjustments.
So I'd say we're slightly ahead.
But again I think the contribution for the year we said was only going to be $3 million or $4 million worth of synergies this year and we'll certainly do that but that's about all we expect out of that at this point in time.
And we never break out those individual operating units or operating businesses once we acquire them.
So I'll give you color on integration synergies and what we're doing but we're not going to break out those as separate businesses because we don't run them that way.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And considering that your European operations are exposed to the beverage end markets can you provide some color as to the customer demand trends in the quarter for the past quarter and then your customer mix in the region any impact there? Well I mean certainly the A&amp;R business was predominantly a beverage business the Contego of course had really a no beverage business and our historical legacy business was all beverage.
In that particular case we're exposed to what we saw in Europe.
Now most of our business with Heineken for example which is a large account is really export business.
Most of that business is business they do there that ends back up in the United States.
And if you saw those results you know that Heineken struggle materially in Europe I think it was down 7% or 8% but their export business in the United States was actually okay.
And that's the same thing we saw.
Craft beer and import business was okay.
So our European business while it's reflected that way is actually in some ways certainly the business we acquired more impacted by export to the United States and Latin America if you will of the Heineken brand.
So it wasn't terrible.
As I said in my results or in my comments I mean Europe is continuing to be -- it's a revenue difficult program.
They have a lot of countries with austerity programs over there.
So overall our volumes have held up okay in Europe.
But we didn't expect a big tailwind in Europe.
We sort knew that we are running into a burning building when we did it but we bought great assets at really good prices.
So ultimately EBITDA will be driven more by integration synergies than they will any real recovery in volume at least in 2013.
I'm hoping that turns around in '14 but pretty difficult to predict that.
Your next question comes from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The $90 million to $120 million productivity target does that account for the drag that you're seeing in the first half? I'm sorry if I missed it.
Yes it does.
We're actually overachieving in the Paperboard Packaging segment.
So it does account for that.
What it doesn't account for is some of the sales mix misses that we had in the Flexible business.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you give me a little more color on the drag on 2Q I mean you provided color for Q1 just wanted to get more color on Q2.
Well in Q2 like I said predominantly the bulk of the price reductions that we're going to have there that are driven by deflation are going to hit in the second quarter.
Because they time out.
If you think where deflation was last year in the second quarter.
So you're -- 1 year later it's pretty easy to sort of figure out where those things impact.
So Q2 is a bigger quarter for that.
Seasonally though we have bigger volume -- first quarter is always tough because there's not a lot of really good underlying strength.
Beverage is not that strong.
Food is not as strong.
But as you move into the second and third quarter you see different volumes.
That is a seasonally better market for us right.
And we're busy right now so we feel good about that.
And that sort -- so we expect the productivity increases to offset the price gets back and then the price get backs as Dan said they go way as you get to fourth quarter because you have the reverse.
If you remember towards the fourth quarter you start to see inflationary impacts and so you see the reverse of that process.
So as you head into '14 you got the board price increases that have announced and recognized and then of course you've got the resulting reset bring you the contracts that are on based on costs starting to move up as you head into '14 as well.
So Phil what I would recommend is we consider the second quarter as more of a transition quarter for us.
I mean we're going to cycle through a lot of the price reductions.
There's going to be some inflation improvement at that point and we're going to continue to have productivity in the business.
But based on those 2 negative factors it's a transition quarter for us and then we look at Q3 and Q4 then we cycle through that pricing in particular and the business starts to improve.
So we're looking at it as more of a flat quarter.
It's also hard as Dan said in this calls to sort of give a read on the inflation inputs as well right.
I mean we saw not much in the first quarter.
We still -- I think we told externally we expect to see $50 million or so worth of inflation for the year but it's all going to be -- we expect it to be second half that depends upon what happens to OCC and natural gas.
And I think right now trying to figure out what all that's going to do is a little difficult.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then you talked about how you're busy right now.
But how much of that is seasonal.
Just want to get the sense have things picked up from demand perspective after a soft Q1 and I know Q1 had some 2 lost shipping days and just bad weather across the board.
That shipping day thing always feels like sort of a illegitimate excuse.
I mean we can run overtime and ship that stuff if we really have the demand so we didn't really factor that into our process.
I will tell you that the demand drivers are for Graphic have always been and we've talked about this before is sort of the unemployment rate and consumer discretionary spending.
And I can't say that the dynamics have materially changed.
I mean those tax increases are real.
Fuel prices have mitigated a little bit but I noticed today in Georgia fuel prices are up another $0.07 or $0.08 per gallon or gas is.
And so I think our consumers are being clearly impacted by that.
Having said that underlying some of these trends are good.
I mean pizza has been good cereal is not really -- is not bad right now craft beer and some big beer is better.
So it's really the end-use market by end-use market.
So what I would tell you is most of the volume improvement will be new product stuff.
It will be the seasonality in the business but I can't really sit here and say that I've seen any dynamics that would suggest the individual consumer feels better in Q2 than they felt in Q1.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Some of the commentary in the new product development front is pretty exciting to hear.
And I was wondering if you can help us frame the revenue size of the new product portfolio.
What kind of incremental margins do you have there and how you see that revenue pie growing over time? Well you and I both know I'm not going to give by customer or by product margin stuff or otherwise we wouldn't have any.
What I would tell you is that if you look at the industry -- if you look at the industry backdrop for folding cartons and food you saw overall industry decline.
And yet with the graphic packaging you did not.
So if you sort of think about that 1% drop down and the difference between us a lot of that's from new products.
So we're probably getting in our paperboard business about a 1% improvement on the new product activity.
That's sort of what we've talked about in the past and that's really what we're seeing right now.
And that's the flow-through of the stuff that we've done in the past like Capri Sun or like the McWraps I talked about or the Panera transitions from plastic to paper and you put all that together we get about 1% from the new product activity.
Research Division</strong> On the flexible side would be the production issues you're now experiencing do you still think you can grow earnings and EBITDA in that segment in '13 or is that now going to be delayed until next year? No.
We are definitely going to improve our earnings in that business in 2013.
There's nobody within Graphic Packaging who is more disappointed than me with our execution in that space.
We have a lot of plans or a lot of process.
For the most part we do a really good job executing but sometimes we don't.
And in this case we did not.
There's really no other way to say it.
Our New Philadelphia converting plant did not do well and we exacerbated it by not running well in our paperboard mill.
We're making some changes in that mill to improve the fiber mix.
It has a rich mix of fiber.
We used too much fiber to make the paper certainly versus the industry.
And so we made some changes and unfortunately as we made those changes we really -- we made it worse before making it better.
So we're going to continue to work that problem but I would guarantee you that margins will in fact improve as we go through 2013.
But we have some work to do.
Fortunately Alex it's not across a whole bunch of sites a whole -- it's a very concentrated issue and as I said in my remarks we are working it vigorously and I do think there's anybody in that business within Graphic Packaging that doesn't understand that they're lying 3.
Research Division</strong> Got it David.
I mean thinking about the order of magnitude and the improvement would it likely be somewhat below the synergy target of $20 million because you get that $20 million benefit and then some offset from the production issues or...
You got to remember part of the synergy number is impacted by our ability not being able to make paper right.
So some impact I mean I haven't defined the entire -- I'm looking at an overall saying we need to -- the overall performance should improve.
But if we don't make paper then we don't necessarily get the synergy impact and that's really what you saw.
That's why I said I think it's about $8 million impact right.
Probably about half of that was just pure operational issues and the other half of it was really sort of we didn't get the paper and we didn't get the sales we didn't get the coverage.
So it's sort of mixed in there.
So we're going to see the improvement in the -- the synergies are there.
We just need to be able to run the mill effectively.
And look we're only talking about running the mill at historical levels we're not even talking about materially improving the overall output.
We're trying to get back to more historical levels using less fiber and energy in the overall process which is -- this is not rocket science.
We just didn't do a good job.
Research Division</strong> Okay I understood.
And then a question for you on OCC and if you have any insight on the Green Sense initiative in China and whether that's resulting in more tonnage staying here in the U.S.
and not moving into the export markets? Well I mean boy I have no idea.
I mean I've read the same comments as you do.
There's a lot -- we don't really collect OCC and send it over to China so I think there's probably better people to ask about that.
What I would tell you is we've seen moderation on in the price of OCC even in April.
And I would tell you in April were really haven't seen increase in price of OCC.
But that's about all the visibility we have.
Trying to define what's going to happen in the fourth quarter here on OCC we're expecting it to move up and as what Dan said we expect natural gas and OCC to move up.
That's all based on what we think the economy will do on a global basis and that's why it's a little bit hard to define what's going to happen.
Research Division</strong> And just my last question and hopefully an easier one just on the CapEx front.
I believe in '13 it will be meaningfully higher than '12.
Can you just talk to us if you have a sense for how to think about CapEx in '14? Yes.
I think what you're going to see Alex the items that are increasing is the investment in Europe and finishing up the biomass boiler.
I mean both of those the investment in Europe should be completed in 2013.
And I don't think there's much flow over into '14 based on what I see.
So we're thinking to go back to more of a normalized level of CapEx and that's going to be in the $180 million to $190 million range for 2014.
That's where we think we're going to be.
Research Division</strong> So is the entire $40 million investment in Europe is that on the CapEx line? No it is not.
It's about half.
Half CapEx and half expense.
We'll break out -- as I said we'll breakout the expense for you because it's nonrecurring.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> You referenced the folding carton volumes up 8% in the quarter with acquisitions driving most of that.
And apologies if you said this before but organically what would've that volume growth have been? And then with the new product pipeline and some customer wins when you look at the full year is there kind of an estimate you could give us in terms of what kind of year-over-year volume growth is realistic or achievable? Well that's a long question right? What I would say is that organic folding carton volumes for Graphic in the quarter were about in the United States were flat.
So new -- I think the market was down 1% or 2%.
We were about flat new products made up a good portion of that and then we had some better mix performance overall.
The reason it's really hard to estimate is because the biggest drag on folding carton volumes in the quarter were in the beverage business right.
And so it's a little hard to figure out how much of that was truly weather and how much that will really change.
I mean if you look at our customers and their forwards they believe that there will be an improvement certainly in organic -- certainly beer and they don't expect neither -- I'm sure neither Coke nor Pepsi expect soft drink to be down 4% or 5% as it was in the first quarter.
So I mean I think we'll see a more normalized level back at that.
Our projections I think we said for the year is that we kind of felt the market will be flat overall and that's organically and I didn't see any reason to suggest otherwise at this point in time.
I'd love to see a little bit better recovery but I think we're going to need to get more people back to work I think to see a structural change if you will in organic demand.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then from your comments earlier maybe you get 1 point on top of that with new products and customer wins is that fair? That's kind of the way that that thing works.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe switching gears to flexible packaging.
You referenced some of the issues at Pine Bluff and you called out an $8 million impact on the quarter.
Assuming that there's still work going on in April and that work is successful do you have kind of estimate in terms of what that impact would be in the second quarter versus running very smoothly? We have not -- I have done not done that math specifically.
What I think Dan talked about overall is that we should be at the upper end of our performance targets and that includes all in including whatever recovery we have in the flexible business for the year.
And that's probably the best way to look at it that I think we'll continue to outperform in paperboard.
We're going to struggle a little bit in the quarter.
It's not as if it's going to turn itself around in 30 days.
So we'll have some second quarter impact.
But I don't think it makes sense to sort of try and model that individual thing because it's just not -- it's not going to be that significant.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Stivaletti with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A few things.
One was could you maybe update us on your sales in Japan and sort of how that -- what the outlook there is? Well as you know Dan mentioned in his script that for first time we thought we saw a negative FX impact and that was predominantly in Asia.
I think that Dan said like $4 million of FX in the quarter something like that.
That was the impact in the quarter right.
And that's mostly the yen.
So we have certainly on the top line had that impact.
That doesn't really necessarily affect the EBITDA significantly but the top line.
Overall our Japan business is pretty consistent.
I will tell you we saw -- certainly saw a slowdown in our China business.
Now China is hard for me to say -- it's hard for me to talk about because we think a lot of other people in this space.
They have huge exposures to China.
Ours is pretty small.
But even saying that we certainly saw a slowdown in machinery placements.
We saw a slowdown in customer demand for cartons.
It's clear that some of our Chinese customers are beginning to recalibrate for what is -- what appears to be at least in the segments that we're in a little bit lower demand profile than they expected.
A couple of the dairies are delaying their expansions or pushing them out if you will.
So we did see some of that in China.
But Japan was not materially impacted.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You also -- you mentioned the possibility for future acquisitions.
I wondered if you could just update us there in terms of what your main priorities would be when you think about acquisitions and if you think that anything's imminent.
Well as you know I couldn't -- even if we had something imminent I couldn't talk about it.
What I would tell you is our focus and direction strategically is to expand -- is to continue to make legitimate carton acquisitions for the most part and with some geographical bend.
We're pretty well covered in North America.
There are a couple of places where we might make a move in North America in U.S.
but we feel -- but we feel pretty good about our converting network here.
Certainty we talk and recently we made the acquisition because our converting network in Europe really wasn't that good.
And there are other parts in Latin America that we're in or participate but we don't have a robust converting system.
So over time that would be our expectation to do as well.
But again I want to be clear these are relatively small bolt-on acquisitions.
Strategically they make sense they allow us to absorb the excess creep capacity we get in our paperboard mill.
But they are -- they're in this $80 million to $100 million sort of range in the process.
Dan will look at maybe because he wants to make sure we sort of keep in that debt-to-EBITDA ratio and continue to pay down our debt.
So it's going to be around those kinds of strategic alternative.
And I never really know when a carton business is going to come up.
They tend to be pretty small.
A lot of them are privately owned.
It's not as well known.
When it's going -- when it does we will be active.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last question I had was just to get your perspective.
When you talk about in your release about flexible packaging and you talked about continued weakness in areas some of the demand drivers.
You talked about continued weakness in areas like construction and -- I guess I was wondering if you could put that in perspective because obviously from a bigger picture perspective we're seeing quite a recovery in housing and whatnot and I wondered if you could just talk about is it just the nature of your particular product mix in the construction space or...
Well as you know a lot of improvement in construction right now is not in single home it's a multi-dwelling and we're making with multi-wall bags that end up in concrete and they tend to be smaller job-related stuff not the big booms that come in and dump millions of tons of concrete.
So that particular part of the sector is still pretty soft.
And it's improving.
But if you listen to Home Depot and Lowe's reports as I do they'll say that part -- that sector is still has a ways to go to get to where they like to see it.
So I think maybe that's a long answer and say it's -- a lot of it had to do with mix but it's not a rising-tide-lifting-all-boats sort of plan.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America.
George are you sharing your line with [indiscernible]? I assume the lines are working operator right.
Yes the lines are working.
It looks like Mr.
Staphos took his question back.
There are no further questions at this time.
Do you have any...
We thank you for your participation.
We'll talk to you in a quarter.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Montserrat and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Graphic Packaging Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to pass this call over to your host Mr.
Brad Ankerholz.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you Montserrat and welcome to Graphic Packaging Holding Company's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
Commenting on results this morning are David Scheible the company's President and CEO; and Dan Blount Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
To help you along with today's call we have provided a slide presentation which can be accessed by clicking on the Q2 earnings webcast link on the Investor Relations section of our website which is at graphicpkg.com.
I would like to remind everyone that statements of our expectations plans estimates and beliefs regarding future performance and events constitute forward-looking statements.
Such statements are based on currently available information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties and could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's present expectations.
Information regarding these risks and uncertainties is contained in the company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements as such statements speak only as of the date in which they're made and the company undertakes no obligation to update such statements.
David I'll turn it over to you now.
Thanks Brad.
Good morning everyone.
Second quarter results were in line with our expectations despite what turned out to be a challenging global demand environment.
Volumes in our core paperboard segment increased 5% and our adjusted EBITDA of $175 million and EBITDA margin of 15.4% were also strong and benefited from our strong operating performance and continuous improvement initiatives.
Our earnings per share for the quarter was $0.13 a share compared to $0.11 a share a year ago.
New products acquisitions and customer wins particularly in the consumer packaging sector offset weather-related weakness in the beverage segments during the quarter.
Sales of new products launched in the quarter were solid and revenues from the fourth quarter 2012 European acquisitions added almost $80 million sales in the quarter.
Corrugated replacements strength packaging microwave cooking technology some quick-serve dining room solutions and our proprietary beer bottle cartons called Tite-Pak remain key areas of growth during the quarter.
We're partnering with our customers to develop solutions to differentiate products shorten their supply chain and lower their distribution cost.
Our recently opened innovation lab in our Atlanta corporate center has served as an important new resource for our product development efforts and we're utilizing that capability globally.
We talked about the launch of our newly developed receptor sleeve for McDonald's Premium McWrap on our last earnings call.
I'm happy to report that the Premium McWrap continues to do very well with consumers and our packaging is helping distinguish this new item in the marketplace.
We also launched 2 new important products of Kraft in the second quarter.
Both these products were developed to make it easier for consumers to quickly prepare a quality meal.
The new designs are developed by Velveeta Cheesy Skillet Singles and Kraft Recipe Makers.
Let's talk about volume.
In our global folding carton business it increased about 3.6% in the second quarter and was driven predominantly by our European acquisitions.
Our legacy folding carton volume was down about 3% on a year-over-year basis and it was the tale of 2 stories in the quarter.
Consumer product sales were flat in the quarter with strength in pizza dry food and new products offsetting weakness in the cereal and away-from-home markets.
The real weakness in the quarter came in the beverage market.
Cold and wet weather conditions in both the U.S.
and Europe negatively impacted sales of both soft drink and beer packaging.
This is especially true in the U.S.
for the important Memorial Day and Fourth of July holiday periods.
The Can Manufacturing Institute estimated that industry volumes across the canned beverage markets decreased roughly 4.7% in the second quarter with nonalcoholic beverage down almost 6% and alcoholic beverages down about 2.5%.
So both the on-premise and take-home markets have been relatively weak in this quarter but it was the take-home market that has been more sensitive to weather fluctuations particularly around the key holidays.
Less picnics means less beer and less soft drink consumed.
On a positive note the craft beer sector continues to outperform big beer and was a positive again for us in this quarter.
Both the soft drink and big beer markets picked up early here in the third quarter and we are cautiously optimistic based on these improving demand trend but I think time will tell it needs to stay high.
Both sales and profit trends in our flexible business improved in the second quarter.
Demand for the concrete bag and construction side of the business improved which helped Flexible Packaging backlogs more than double during the quarter.
New management along with some recently installed equipment and systems upgrades have improved fiber yields in throughput at the Pine Bluff Arkansas mill.
Tons per day increased 9% sequentially in the quarter and we believe we will reach optimal levels as further paper machine improvements are made during our planned maintenance outage here in August.
There's also ongoing work being done on the converting side and we expect to make significant progress on this end over the next 2 quarters.
We are confident that production issues are being addressed and this business should achieve its production yield targets later this year.
We should also see better pricing trends in both our multi-wall bag and specialty retail plastics business in the second half of the year as prices begin to reflect higher kraft paper and resin costs being passed through to consumers or customers.
We've made the decision after the quarter to close our Brampton Ontario flexible film facility and we will rationalize this volume into other lower-cost facilities by the end of September.
This will result in roughly $4 million to $5 million in lower annual operating cost once the transitions are completed.
All these changes drove a sequential improvement in our Flexible Packaging EBITDA margin in the second quarter as it grew from 1.8% in Q1 to 3.2% this quarter.
As we finish the work at the mill and the converting side we expect our flex margins to reach high single digits by the end of the year and low-double-digit range early next year.
Let's talk a little bit about additional performance improvements.
The integration of the Contego Packaging and A&amp;R beverage packaging business in Europe is progressing on plan and we remain comfortable with the $16 million to $18 million synergy targets that Dan and I talked about for next year.
We're installing new presses and making the capital investments necessary to optimize our European asset base.
This quarter we announced the closure of our converting plant in Gillingham England and are consolidating the plant volumes into other lower-cost facilities throughout Europe thereby improving our European manufacturing cost position.
Macro conditions across Europe remain challenging but they are improving for our sectors.
We are confident in our ability to drive higher volumes and profit margins through a disciplined approach on new product introductions and by optimizing our supply chain.
We had another very solid quarter in operating performance across our mills and our converting plants.
This quarter we generated about $29 million of performance improvements across the business year-on-year which brings our total for 2013 to over $50 million.
We remain on track to achieve our goal of $100 million to $120 million of total performance benefits for the full year.
A significant portion of this in the second half will be our energy consumption side with the biomass boiler in Macon now online.
The biomass boiler is expected to generate annual savings of nearly $20 million starting in the third quarter.
We had a strong production quarter in our mills.
The improvement initiatives in reducing the amount of energy and better throughput and reduction in fixed cost.
We took no unplanned downtime and we produced 11 500 more tons and utilized more tons than last year quarter.
And we continue to have very strong demand for both our 2 core grades SUS and CRB.
The integration efforts to consolidate our mill purchases continue to yield significant cost reductions in coating process chemicals and wood and provides additional tons for us to sell.
Company-wide pricing declined by $16 million in the second quarter and $21 million through the first half of the year.
This was in line with our expectations and it's the clear result of contractual prices resetting based on input cost inflation we experienced in 2012.
Second quarter represents a low mark for pricing and we expect price givebacks to moderate significantly in the second half of the year.
As I mentioned last quarter we expect pricing to decline by approximately $30 million for the full year and turn positive starting in late Q4 and then improve further as we head into 2014.
On the cost side we experienced commodity input inflation of roughly $10 million versus 2012 quarter.
Increases in energy chemicals and wood drove the commodity inflation.
Higher energy costs were the result of rising natural gas prices while higher wood prices result predominantly from wet weather raising transportation costs both in Georgia as well as in Louisiana.
Oil prices moderated somewhat in Q2 but higher diesel prices also increased our freight cost.
It's hard to predict the impact of fuel TiO2 and chemicals with the high level of variability in global demand but looking forward we have no reason to believe input costs will rise on a sequential basis in the back half of the year but we do face difficult year-over-year comparisons in the third and fourth quarters as we experienced deflation during that same time period last year predominantly based on recycled fiber inputs and lower natural gas cost.
We've begun to recognize increases in paperboard prices due to continued strong demand for SUS and CRB.
During the quarter our pricing on CUK or SUS rose $45 a ton and CRB increased $35 a ton.
We recently announced additional increases on both grades effective during Q3.
These increases should benefit our open market sales in 2013 and begin to benefit carton contract prices later this year and into next year.
We're setting up a very positive backdrop for pricing as we head into 2014.
Talk about the capital structure.
Commenting a moment for equity ownership we completed another secondary offering in June.
Four of our largest shareholders sold an aggregate of 15 million shares.
This is on top of the 32 million shares sold in March of this year and another almost 19 million shares sold in December of last year by the same 4 shareholders.
Combined with the company's share repurchase last December these transactions have reduced the combined holdings of these shareholders from 65% to 39% of our total shares.
This has significantly increased the public float and liquidity of our stock.
And since the June 2013 offering the trading volume in our stock has been close to 2 million shares per day which is more than double the volume before these transactions.
We believe the secondary market transactions have proven beneficial to all shareholders.
If I look forward a little bit we had a solid second quarter.
We drove volume increases with new customer wins and acquired businesses.
We maintained higher operating margins with performance improvements.
We continue investing in future growth and optimize our assets around customers' changing needs.
We certainly don't control the weather but we are continually finding ways to win new business and expand our addressable market.
We have work to do in our flexible business.
We certainly realize that double-digit markets -- double-digit margins are our target and we're moving in the right direction.
And I'm extremely confident in our ability to be able to deliver those synergies and operating targets there next year.
Looking at the back half of 2013 we expect pricing to become less of a drag but to face greater year-over-year headwinds from inflation.
Dan's going to provide more detailed guidance on 2013.
We remain committed to generating cash and reducing our debt levels this year near the top end of our 2.5x to 3x net leverage ratio by year end.
I'm going to turn the call over to Dan for a more detailed discussion of financial results and then move to Q&amp;A.
Okay.
Thanks David and good morning everyone.
Let's begin on Slide 12 where you see that we reported adjusted second quarter EBITDA of $175 million and adjusted net income of $44 million.
These results are in line with our previously provided guidance as during the quarter we cycled through the majority of the downward price resets expected for 2013.
Overall given the softness in beverage volumes that David discussed we are pleased with our results as we were able to offset the beverage sales impact and price resets with improved operating performance.
Before reviewing sales I will mention that a reconciliation of GAAP to adjusted results is included in today's earnings release and summarized on this slide.
We adjusted EBITDA and net income for specific nonrecurring post-acquisition integration and debt refinancing expenses.
Let's briefly look at the adjustments.
First we called our 9 1/2% senior notes and replaced them with 4 3/4% senior notes.
We incurred a $26 million charge for the early redemption premium and unamortized debt issue cost.
But we'll save $20 million per year in cash interest.
We continue to make progress with Europe post-acquisition integration and incurred charges totaling $9.5 million.
The Gillingham U.K.
closure that David discussed is part of this charge.
In total for the year we expect to incur charges totaling $20 million for our Europe integration.
Beginning in 2014 the Europe synergy benefit as stated earlier is expected to be in the $16 million to $18 million per year range.
And finally as a planning note the Brampton Ontario plant shutdown that we announced in July will be included as a nonrecurring charge in Q3.
This shutdown is part of the integration of Flexible Packaging and will result in improved Flexible margins.
The third quarter charge is expected to be in the range of $7 million to $10 million.
Now turning to Slide 13 you will find the sales bridge where you see a 2.5 -- or $28 million increase over the prior year.
David already described that the increase principally resulted from the European acquisitions offset by weather-related weakness in beverage and pricing resets.
To follow on David's discussion I do want to comment on the internalization of our kraft paper production which impacted year-over-year sales.
Also I will provide a couple of additional comments on pricing.
As discussed in prior quarters vertical integration of our kraft paper mill in Pine Bluff Arkansas with our multi-wall bag converting operations is a key initiative to reduce cost in our Flexible segment.
Redirecting paper to internal consumption enhances margins but results in the reduction of P&amp;L sales as internal sales are eliminated.
For the quarter the kraft paper shift to internal use resulted in a sales impact of $9 million.
For the year the impact is expected to total $22 million.
Now going back to pricing David discussed that we expect to cycle through $30 million of downward price resets in 2013 due to prior year input cost deflation.
As you will recall the reset mechanisms in our contracts provide for pricing adjustments up or down based on input cost movements and changes in board price.
The average lag is approximately 9 months.
Now looking at timing we saw about $21 million of lower pricing flow through the first half of the year.
For the remainder of the year we expect to see a further $9 million price decline with the bulk hitting in the third quarter.
By the end of the year we expect to have cycled through the reductions and price to turn positive moving into 2014 as contracts reset to recover 2013 commodity inflation and we realize implemented paperboard price increases.
Now turning to the EBITDA bridge on the next page.
The overall volume increase added $2.2 million.
The incremental margin percentage on this increase is lower than our average because the majority of the volume growth comes from Europe where we have significant integration activities in process.
As Europe optimizes its manufacturing through such activities as the Gillingham plant closure and upgrading production equipment we expect the margin on this business to rise well above our average converting margin.
In terms of commodity inflation we experienced a $10 million increase.
As David pointed out rising natural gas pricing was a key contributor.
Recently we saw a pullback in natural gas pricing and hedged 75% of our remaining 2013 exposure.
This action will greatly reduce the potential impact of natural gas price volatility.
Looking at overall commodity inflation our view is that input prices will remain consistent with the levels we saw in Q2 for the remainder of 2013.
However due to commodity deflation in the back end of last year we do face a difficult year-over-year inflation comparison in Q3 and Q4 driven predominantly by secondary fiber costs.
Given current commodity pricing we expect the year-over-year comparison headwind over the next 2 quarters to be $20 million to $25 million.
With regard to performance improvements David detailed the drivers of our strong results.
Year-to-date we have delivered $52 million of productivity improvement.
A review of the status of our cost reduction initiatives shows that they are progressing well and as a result we expect total performance improvement for 2013 to be in the $100 million to $120 million range.
To summarize through 6 months EBITDA grew $10 million as we cycled through the $21 million of price resets and continued to improve productivity.
Now looking forward earlier this year we told you that we expected EBITDA for 2013 to improve by roughly $30 million over last year.
This guidance reflected our view of no noticeable change in economic activity modest inflation and cycling through the downward price reset.
Given Q2 performance we are leaving this guidance of roughly $30 million year-over-year improvement unchanged.
The weather-related reduction in beverage volume we will make up with increased performance improvement.
Looking forward to 2014 our view is becoming more optimistic.
Contractual price resets that will include the recent increases in CRB and CUK pricing should result in margin expansion as we expect inflation to be modest.
Additionally 2013 investments in our mills and Europe should make strong contributions.
Turning to the next slide you'll find our cash flow debt and liquidity summary.
I will not spend much time discussing as we continue to track to our 2013 debt reduction target of $250 million.
Plus Q2 cash flow was strong and we lowered our effective interest rate by replacing the 9 1/2% notes with 4 3/4% notes.
Overall looking at our entire debt portfolio we have an average effective borrowing rate of 3.6% and this rate includes hedging the exposure on a substantial portion of our variable rate debt.
As we enter an environment where interest rates have risen and have greater upward pressure we are well positioned as we have hedged LIBOR over the term of our bank agreement at 75 basis points.
We expect after near-term planned debt reduction to operate with 70% of our interest rate exposure fix.
Now turning back to the $250 million debt reduction target just a reminder that this year's cash flow will include 3 special items.
And the first one is the $27 million we spent to refinance the 9 1/2% notes which allowed us to achieve an annual interest rate savings of $20 million.
Second in total we are investing $40 million to integrate Europe and this will allow us to drive $16 million to $18 million of post-acquisition synergies.
And third and this is a cash inflow we expect to receive a cash tax rebate of more than $20 million in Q4 related to the Macon biomass boiler.
Adjusting for these items our 2013 normalized cash flow would be in the $300 million range.
Now turning to the last Slide you will see our refreshed guidance for 2013.
If you have any questions about them we'll be glad to address them during the Q&amp;A.
And with those comments I will turn the call back to the operator for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about inter-quarter trends in your beverage business and into Q3? Have you seen things pick up a little bit with the weather warming up a bit? Well we have both in the United States and Europe.
So we have seen a pickup and so I'm optimistic that we'll see better comparisons.
But we're not ever going to get the volume back for Memorial Day or Fourth of July.
Those picnics or outings did not occur and those beer sales are never going to happen.
So second quarter is an important quarter for the beverage business and it's disappointing that we just didn't see the volume.
Third quarter is usually pretty strong for us as back-to-school combines with NFL and football at least in our part of the country SEC Football and that tends to be a good volume as well and that's kind of what we're seeing right now.
We're just going to wait and see but it's hot down here now.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Can you -- where are your backlogs stacking up for CUK right now? And can you give us a little perspective how that stacks up to the industry on a relative basis? I can't talk about the industry but if you want to order CUK or SUS from us right now you aren't going to get anything until end of August or maybe early September depending upon how important a customer you are.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it sounds like it's pretty elevated at this point right? Well CUK -- and actually the backlogs that are longer are CRB.
We're having a great year producing CRB and we can't build a ton of inventory.
And as you know we're a net buyer and we're buying probably yes 60 000 tons of CRB on the outside this year.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then you guys are obviously generating a lot of cash flow and you should hit that upper end of your leverage target by year end.
So how should we be thinking about cash flow deployment as we go into 2014 potentially dividend more tuck-in acquisitions? Can you give a little color on that front? Well as you know I can't talk too much forward.
What I would simply say is that we like the idea of some tuck-in acquisitions.
We're always looking at stuff as well.
Clearly the capital structure discussion is one that we're going to -- we're going to continue to have in the second half of this year.
I think what I would tell you Dan and I is let's just see how the year progresses.
I think our $250 million cash flow target is one we're definitely going to hit but I'm going to kind of wait until we get that cash before I go spending it.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> You've kept your CapEx guidance at $215 million $235 million and I'm wondering the remaining -- I guess you've spent $85 million in the first half.
The remaining portion should we expect that kind of evenly distributed between 3Q and 4Q? And then looking to 2014 is there any kind of initial view on maybe CapEx coming down a bit to a more normalized level? I'll let Dan do -- I know that third quarter's going to be a little higher because we'll pay for the remaining part of the biomass boiler now that it's coming online right? That's correct.
I think if you divide it up a 60-40 split is reasonable in terms of CapEx looking at it for the quarters.
And in 2014 we sort of said back down to maybe...
Right.
I think what we were looking at in particular that we will not repeat the higher-level investments in Europe that we've commented on.
And we've added back because it's not a normalized level of CapEx.
So I think if you back out a substantial portion of that you'll come to a level that would be more normal for our Graphic Packaging.
Research Division</strong> Would that be $190 million something in that ballpark? $185 million to $190 million or something like that is probably about where we normally run.
You can inch up to $200 million and that type of thing but it's all about the same number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just switching gears to Flexible Packaging you said that you expect high-single-digit margins by the end of the year.
And I'm just wondering do you mean by that that you would get those margins in 4Q or maybe exiting the year? Or what kind of -- how should we think about maybe the margin level for the fourth quarter? Well part of the margin is going to come from an upgrade in our paperboard mill in August.
That's late August downtime so that portion of it we should get most of in the fourth quarter.
What I would say on the converting side of the equation is we'll need most of the year to sort out the issues that are there.
So what I would tell you is for us we would see monthly improvement in those margins.
So we're certainly going to exit the year heading towards -- moving into the first quarter of 2014 in that low double digit.
So if by the end of the -- by December for example we should be high single digit exiting -- going towards double-digit for 2014 first quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> David is it time to get a weatherman on the payroll? Well I'll tell you.
I really hate to talk about weather stuff.
And I think Dan was trying to talk about it.
I think for us it was more of a missed opportunity than it was a real detriment to the business.
I think we could have had a really strong quarter.
But it probably cost us -- Dan and I were trying to do the estimate.
Probably 10 000 tons of business or something like that maybe $20 million of revenue between United States and Europe that was directly -- that we can directly attribute to weather.
And if you sort of multiply that times our margins in our paperboard space it's a lost opportunity.
I'm not going to get it back.
Research Division</strong> Yes yes.
Anyway on the acquisitions I think you said $80 million of sales roughly for the quarter.
Can you just give us sort of an EBIT contribution as it relates to the paperboard business? And also how did the volumes for those 2 acquisitions perform on a year-over-year basis? Because obviously weather was quite unfavorable in Europe also.
Yes there's no question that the -- and it's interesting because there were a couple things that happened in the quarter in Europe.
You remember the weather was not good on the beverage side.
But you remember early in the quarter the food side you got all those meat scares over there and it really did affect the food volume early in the quarter.
Some of that has come back but consumers especially in the U.K.
were very concerned about all the meat issues that occurred.
So we had downward pressure on volume in both of those.
We have seen an improvement right now.
Europe's hot and so it -- we started right now in July.
I kind of like our volumes across our business but it's a marathon not a sprint.
Research Division</strong> Yes makes sense.
And then in terms of 2014 you guys have been pretty consistent with productivity and obviously this year is very very strong.
Pricing impacted '13.
How should we think about -- I know it's early but how should we think about pricing for 2014 based on what you've seen realized across the market for CUK and CRB at this point? Well divining forward what I would say is that if you sort of look at our pricing scenario Dan and I were just talking about this in 2012 our pricing year-on-year was up about $17 million.
This year it's down around $30 million.
I think next year it's reasonable.
Our expectations is that pricing will be up somewhere between $30 million and $40 million at this point in time.
And if I believe anything it's probably going to move to the higher ranges as all these increases blow through.
But I'll tell you we are flat serious about all of our price increases.
And we're busy and our board knows we're busy.
I feel good about the pricing parameters going forward so I think $30 million to $40 million of year-on-year improvement in pricing is doable for Graphic next year.
I just wanted to add one thing.
For modeling purposes if you look at Graphic with the 9-month lag I think if you look not at the annual period but the 18-month period you'll see that the cost/price spread in terms of inflation and price basically offset each other in terms of commodity inflation.
And we have seen that historically and that type of model in books.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you a couple of questions on productivity for next year.
You mentioned a couple of positive factors synergies in Europe the full year impact of the biomass boiler higher margins in Flexible.
So as you think about the productivity number in 2014 how do you think it stacks up relative to the normal $60 million to $80 million that you typically have been able to take out of the cost structure annually? Alex that's a good -- I don't know that we've actually sat down and done the math for 2014 right now so we'll have to get back to you on that.
Certainly we're going to get our $60 million to $80 million.
We've got some adds and now we've done the Brampton thing which will add some.
We probably really need to redo that math for 2014.
But certainly I think if you're modeling in $60 million to $80 million we ought to be able to do the high end of that without any difficulty.
I just haven't done all the gives and takes on the other stuff that we've announced recently.
Generally in the third quarter call we'll start to provide more guidance on '14.
But I think if you take what we said today there's upside on that $60 million to $80 million.
We would consider that Europe should be incremental to that number because that's an integration activity.
So I think there's going to be good news on productivity for 2014.
Yes the one thing we tried to remind everybody and I know we forget but part of our productivity growth does require us to actually make products.
So the fact of the matter is that the volume impacts in the second quarter are not just around lost sales but the fact we couldn't run our plants as efficiently so some of our productivity metrics aren't as good because they're around throughput they're around scrap they're around labor reduction which we can't get if we don't run.
So part of our hedging is just what do we think the operating environment's going to be in 2014.
I believe the U.S.
is improving.
I know Europe is improving for 2014 so you got to believe that's going to be helpful.
But man trying to divine right now what U.S.
and European economies are going to do on the blue collar side is a little difficult for us.
And that's really the part of the economy that we care about.
Unemployment needs to get better for sure and the consumers -- we definitely saw this quarter the impact -- I don't care what anybody says.
We saw the impact of the payroll tax.
There's absolutely no question that our consumers certainly made buying decisions differently because of the impact of payroll taxes and higher gasoline in the quarter.
There's no question about that.
So the question is how long does it take to readjust how long does it take them to sort of recalibrate and get back to buying on a normal pattern.
Third quarter looks like it -- you see some of that adjustment but it's difficult for Dan and I to sort of divine what that looks like.
Research Division</strong> That's good color Dave.
And one more question from me on the packaged food side.
As you talk to your customers in that vertical are they saying anything around promotional activity in the back half of '13 that may be beneficial to volumes in the back half of the year? I'm sorry you're going to have to repeat because we did not hear -- we only heard every other word.
Could you start that one again? Research Division</strong> Yes sure.
So I said on the packaged food side as you talk to your customers about the second half outlook are they saying anything about promotional activity that may suggest that we may see some sort of volume pickup in the important packaged food verticals that you're exposed to? Here's what I would say.
They would tell us that they're more optimistic about their business in the second half than the first half.
What I would tell you is they always are.
So what I will say is what I -- at this point I'm just going to say what I know which is we're starting the quarter off good.
But in fairness I think our customers are having the same problem divining what is going on with the consumer as we are.
There's not great data or read-throughs out there.
And so I'm -- there's certainly more promotional activity that we see.
But whether that drives demand at the consumer level I mean I don't know.
I really don't.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question is around Europe and it was a question I think Ghansham had asked.
To the extent that you can share what kind of margin benefit you've gotten thus far from Contego and A&amp;R either in percentage or dollar terms that'd be helpful.
If you can't disclose that just in general what have been your observation thus far about the European market? Any surprises? Obviously had the weather-related issues and the meat scares but what have you found thus far? George what we found -- when we bought Contego and A&amp;R we bought a business that had about $20 million worth of EBITDA.
That's the number we expect to deliver in 2013.
We're maintaining that $20 million in a tough environment and that's on top of the margin that we got in the Graphic business.
So we're looking at 2014 when we start to get the $16 million to $18 million and hopefully we'll get productivity beyond that point but we're counting on that $16 million to $18 million you'll see a margin that substantially improved.
But for this year we're adding in what we bought with how we performed before and that's the margin structure we're expecting in Europe.
Well I'll just tell you that one of the surprises -- not surprises but one of the benefits is that we have much better management team in Europe than we had before.
And what we're really starting to see over there is sort of at a very basic level or a granular level we're picking up $0.5 million and $0.75 million opportunities over there on a go-forward basis.
I couldn't be happier with the acquisition itself.
Europe is a tough operating environment from a volume standpoint but we knew that going in.
So it's maybe more depressing than we expected but not something we cannot overcome through operating our business better.
And that's really what we're seeing.
But it's early but I like very much what we're seeing in Europe.
Research Division</strong> With challenges obviously you get opportunities and so do you see additional opportunity perhaps to build on your existing business in Europe because others might also be facing the same challenges but not have your resource or wherewithal? There's no question.
As you look at our LRP -- I'm sorry as you look at our long-range plan that we put together for a 3-year look forward there's no question as we move towards the end of '14 and '15 there are growth opportunities in Europe for us that we're already beginning to prepare for and put into our business.
There's an opportunity for us.
There is no Graphic Packaging in Europe -- or there wasn't and we believe that we'll do the same thing we've done in the United States.
And solid execution at the customer level is translated to more cash and appreciation in our equity and we see no reason why Europe won't be a positive contributor to that trend.
Research Division</strong> How many tons are you shipping from the States over to Europe right now if much at all? And where would you see that on I don't know a 2014 basis? Would there be much in the way for integration gains? Well the more -- so it's a really good question.
Our old tons were 75 000 to 80 000 tons.
That's what we shipped before.
And that's about the rate we're doing right now.
And the reason is because we really don't have a lot of extra tons to ship to Europe at this point in time.
So right now what I would tell you is that our integration activities over there really aren't including board integration.
It's just solid execution at the plant level and getting rid of high-cost facilities.
So longer term we may ship more board over to Europe.
But right now that's really not a good arbitrage for us because it's a bad use of cash if our paperboard mills are full here so we're continuing to buy the tons that we need to run Europe in Europe.
And for '13 it looks unlikely that will change.
Research Division</strong> David I was in the market domain into my notes but what did you say you're in the market with in terms of CUK and CRB pricing? I'm sorry repeat again? What do I think about what? Research Division</strong> What are you in the market with in terms of announced price increases in CUK and CRB? I missed it as you're going through in your discussion.
Yes so we announced a $50 a ton price increase for both SUS and for CRB in the third quarter and we have achieved already in the second quarter $45 a ton on SUS and $35 a ton on CRB in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> My last question and I'll turn it over.
Dan you mentioned that you hedged out your natural gas.
How far out did you hedge? Is it just for this year? Is it 12 months? And actually one related question.
You mentioned a $20 million to $25 million year-on-year increase in input cost.
Is that for the year? Is that just the back half of the year what's left to go? Yes so let me address your second question first.
The $20 million to $25 million was for the last 6 months of the year so that's for Q3 and Q4.
And just to bridge on that most of that as David had pointed out is in fiber cost secondary fiber and wood and some comes in the spread on natural gas.
In terms of our hedging activity I told you we had 75% for the back half of the year.
We also took some hedges in the first quarter in particular.
We like to hedge the high-risk quarters and that's what we've done.
If you remember last year OCC got down to $87-something a ton and we're not going to see that.
We don't expect to see that in the third quarter so a lot of the arbitrage is on that which is why we saw the price increases on CRB.
I mean OCC is up and so we're reflecting that in the CRB prices.
There are no further questions at this time.
All right.
Thanks everybody.
We'll talk to you next quarter.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Ginger and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Graphic Packaging Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Brad Ankerholz you may begin your conference.
[indiscernible] and good morning everybody.
And welcome to the Graphic Packaging Holding Company's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
Commenting on results this morning are David Scheible the company's Chairman President and CEO; and Dan Blount our Senior Vice President and CFO.
To help you follow along with today's call we have provided a slide presentation which can be accessed by clicking on the Q3 earnings webcast link on the Investor Relations section of our website at graphicpkg.com.
I would like to remind everyone that statements of our expectations plans estimates and beliefs regarding future performance and events constitute forward-looking statements.
Such statements are based on currently available information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's present expectations.
Information regarding these risks and uncertainties is contained in the company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements as such statements speak only as of the date on which they are made and the company undertakes no obligation to update such statements.
David I'll turn it over to you now.
Thanks Brad.
Good morning everyone.
Third quarter earnings and cash flow were in line with our expectations and we're pleased to have delivered improved results despite -- continues to be a challenging operating environment.
There is no question we expected a stronger recovery at this point but that's not the backdrop for our business.
Despite those issues volume in our core Paperboard Packaging segment increased 6.4% and adjusted EBITDA increased to over $175 million.
New products acquisitions and customer wins overcame soft demand in some key end-use market areas that drove the increase in volume.
Our continuous improvement initiatives integration activities and strong operating performance kept our margins solid.
Sales of new products launched in the quarter were good.
Revenues from last year's European acquisitions added over $70 million in the quarter.
Consumer trends continued to fuel our approach to innovation which includes creative engagements with customers resulting in market-driven packaging solutions.
Consumer needs for convenience continues to be a strategic focus for many of our new products.
Replacing corrugated packaging microwave cooking technology quick-service dining room solutions and our Tite-Pak beer bottle cartons remain key areas of growth.
In fact during the quarter we launched several new products delivering more than $18 million in new product sales.
We recently launched products leveraging our proprietary Litho-Flute and Z-Flute designs for cookies cereal and popcorn in the club store channel.
Additionally new strength items were launched in the cereal category with General Mills and carry [ph] ingredients under the Kirkland brand for Costco.
We recently worked with Kellogg's to provide new packaging for a Special K snack bar for the on-the-go consumer.
We also launched several new microwave cooking solutions in the third quarter with ConAgra Foods and T.G.I.
Friday's.
In the quick-serve food category we leveraged our success with McWrap packaging and created packaging for McDonald's Mighty Wings products.
Volume in our global folding carton business increased roughly 3.5% in the third quarter and was driven primarily by our recent European acquisitions.
This was partially offset by softness in our legacy beverage and consumer products folding carton markets.
Our trends on the beverage side were clearly mixed.
Carbonated soft drink demand remained weak throughout the quarter and we did not see the traditional pickup from the start of the back-to-school season.
Beer demand however did improve as the quarter progressed with volumes in big beer category up on a year-on-year basis.
Craft beer and specialty drinks continued to be a bright spot for both the industry and Graphic Packaging.
We saw over $3 million of new business in this sector during the quarter.
This is a continuing trend for us as we build on the Sierra Pacific acquisition.
Over the near term we would expect the beer market globally to continue to improve while we see really no catalyst for the soft drink side of the business materially improving.
The bigger surprise in the quarter was actually weakness in some of our core food markets such as dry foods cereal and frozen food which all reported down for the quarter by the Nielsen market data.
Cereal volume was up 6% sequentially but was down 3.3% from the same period last year.
Our customers tell us the primary drivers continue to be slow employment recovery particularly blue-collar jobs.
Clearly the uncertainty about employment and direction is negatively impacting consumer confidence.
Our data also shows consumers continued to tightly manage spending as the prices for key staples like food and fuel remain higher than most expected.
Talk about Flexible.
External sales and volumes in our Flexible Packaging segment were relatively flat during the quarter.
The Pine Bluff mill had a solid operating quarter and we made the necessary upgrades and installed new equipment during the outage to increase our fiber yields and decrease basis weights in the mill which will improve profitability beyond this quarter.
The majority of the kraft paper that used to be sold on the open market from the Pine Bluff mill is now being used internally to produce our own multi-wall bag products.
This has resulted in lower sales of course but it enhances our EBITDA and overall margins.
We also began to see a modest pickup in the demand for concrete bags and construction-related materials early in the year.
And for the most part this trend has continued.
We remain cautiously optimistic about demand trends overall in the multi-wall bag business.
Keeping with our long-term strategic plans we completed the sale of our flexible retail plastics business to Berry Plastics late in the third quarter.
The sale included facilities located in Des Moines Iowa; Milwaukee Wisconsin; and Schaumburg Illinois.
They produce various plastic products for the consumer in industrial markets.
In addition we wound down the operations in our Brampton Ontario Canadian plastics plant in the third quarter and we closed it in early October.
Dan will discuss the financial implications of these actions.
It's somewhat complicated but plastics was clearly not a key business for us and the exit from this business will allow us to focus more on our core vertically integrated businesses.
We're making progress operating the multi-wall business and addressing costly legacy issues.
As a result margins are moving towards 10% as we head into 2014.
We have strong operating performance across our mills and converted plants during the quarter.
We generated $23 million of performance improvements across this business which brings our total for 2013 to nearly $75 million.
We're looking to achieve roughly $100 million of performance benefits for the full year.
The bio-mass boiler in Macon Georgia was operational throughout the quarter and this was the first quarter we began generating our own energy in the facility.
We estimate the savings in energy to be about $20 million per year on a go-forward basis.
The integration of Contego Packaging and A&amp;R beverage packaging business in Europe is progressing on plan.
We remain very comfortable with the $16 million to $18 million synergy target for 2013 [ph].
New converting presses have been installed and we are making the capital investments necessary to optimize our European footprint.
We consolidated the Gillingham England converting plant business to other lower-cost facilities and closed that plant.
Macro conditions across Europe remained challenging but we've seen a nice rebound in the sectors we serve and our business continues to outperform the overall industry.
Our strategy in Europe is the same as the U.S.
We will work to drive higher volumes and profit through a disciplined focus on new product introductions and supply chain optimization.
I'm extremely happy with the progress we're making in Europe.
Paperboard production in our mills was again strong in the third quarter.
Both total production and tons per day increased year-to-date and demand for our CRB and SUS board remains solid.
The increase in production was driven by our continuous improvement efforts to reduce energy and improve operating efficiencies reducing the fixed-cost complement.
We took no unplanned downtime in the quarter and our planned annual maintenance outage at Macon mill was consistent with last year third quarter.
West Monroe completed its annual outage in October with no issues.
Both virgin mills operating well.
We sold our Pekin Illinois URB mill during the quarter.
URB was a non-core substrate for Graphic and the sale of this mill frees up capital and allows us to focus more on core businesses.
Let's talk about pricing and commodities.
Company-wide pricing declined by around $5 million in the third quarter and so that makes about $26 million for the first 9 months of the year.
The quarterly decline was in line with our expectations and represent a sequential improvement from price decrease of $16 million we reported in the second quarter.
Our carton contracts contain mechanisms that allow prices to move up or down with changes in certain inflation items forward movement and the like.
No 2 carton contracts are the same but contractual pricing generally adjusts over about a 9-month period.
We expected pricing reductions to total about $30 million in 2013.
So we also expect pricing to be neutral to slightly negative in Q4 and then begin increasing throughout 2014.
This is further bolstered by the fact we successfully increased the price for both SUS and CRB by roughly $40 a ton during the quarter.
That reflects a strong demand for both substrates and we have extended lead times with them as well.
In total through the first 9 months of 2013 we've seen SUS rise roughly $85 a ton; and CRB $75 a ton.
These increases should benefit our open market sales in the fourth quarter and begin to benefit carton contract pricing next year for those carton contracts with board price escalators.
We expect pricing to remain positive throughout 2014 at the tune of $30 million to $40-plus million on a full year basis.
Commodity input pricing was relatively stable on a sequential basis from Q2 to Q3.
However comparing to last year we experienced commodity input inflation of around $8 million in the third quarter.
We spent about $5.4 million more on natural gas than we did the same period 2012.
Freight costs.
Some regional wood costs were the other drivers of input inflation.
OCC was slightly up during the quarter but most of these had pretty minimal impact.
We now expect total input inflation to be roughly $50 million for the full year.
We delivered another solid quarter in a challenging environment.
We drove volume increases with new customer wins and acquired businesses.
We maintained high operating margins with performance improvements.
We also continued to invest in future growth and optimize our assets and footprint around customer needs.
We do expect some end-use markets to be more challenged than others but we are continually finding ways to gain market share and expand our addressable market.
We sure have work to do in our Flexible business to realize stronger margins but we are clearly moving in the right direction and I'm confident in our ability to deliver our synergy and operating targets for next year.
Looking ahead we expect pricing to begin to turn positive toward the end of the quarter and remain positive throughout 2014 and beyond.
Dan will provide more details on our full year 2013 guidance and some additional guidance around 2014.
We remain committed to generating cash and reducing our debt levels and expect to be near the top end of our 2.5x to 3x net leverage target by the end of 2013.
I'll now turn the call over to Dan for a more detailed discussion of our financial results.
Thanks David and good morning everyone.
To aid in our discussion this morning I will follow our posted presentation.
Let's begin on Slide 11 where you see that we reported adjusted third quarter EBITDA of $175 million.
Adjusted earnings per share was $0.12 up $0.01 over last year.
These results are in line with our previously provided guidance.
During the quarter we continued to improve financial results as operating performance improvements coupled with volume gains from our European acquisitions more than offset modest price declines and inflation.
As David described the third quarter was busy as we sold our flexible retail plastics business and in a related activity shut down our flexible plastics operation in Canada.
Additionally we sold our URB mill.
We amended our $2.4 billion senior secured facility to reduce interest expense and extend duration.
And finally we continued making progress with the integration of our European acquisitions.
The combination of all these activities created numerous nonrecurring benefits and charges that rolled through the financial statements.
As a result we adjusted EBITDA and net income for the nonrecurring transactions.
A reconciliation of the adjustments is included in today's earnings release and is also summarized on this slide.
As you can see reported Q3 EBITDA is almost $189 million and adjusted EBITDA is $175 million.
The main adjustments include one a $20 million gain from the sale of our retail plastics and URB businesses net of the closer costs from the Canadian operation.
We sold the businesses for $76 million received $65 million in cash and took back a note for the balance.
Two a $5 million charge for European integration activity.
We continue to expect European synergy benefits of $16 million to $18 million per year starting in 2014.
And finally three a $1.2 million charge related to the enhancement of our senior secured facility -- credit facility.
I will speak more about the benefits of this upgrade later.
Now turning to Slide 12 you find the sales bridge where you see a 5% or $58 million increase over the prior year.
David described that the increase principally results from the European acquisitions offset by weakness in beverage and certain consumer products categories along with a modest pricing -- along with modest pricing resets.
On the pricing topic we experienced a $5 million reduction in Q3.
In Q4 we expect price to be neutral to slightly negative.
So for the full year we will end up with approximately $30 million of downward price resets.
Please recall the inflation reset mechanisms in our carton contracts provide for pricing adjustments up or down.
The average lag is approximately 9 months.
The downward price resets we are experiencing in 2013 results from commodity deflation during the back half of 2012.
And as David mentioned we expect favorable price next year.
Turning to our Q3 EBITDA bridge on Slide 13.
You see the gains from operating performance and European volume more than offset the price inflation and currency headwinds allowing EBITDA to grow by $4.4 million year-over-year.
Taking a closer look at the categories increased volume added $5.5 million.
The incremental margin percentage on this increase is lower than our average rate because the majority of the volume growth comes from Europe where we have significant integration efforts in process.
As Europe optimizes its manufacturing we expect the margin on this business to rise well above our average converting margin.
In terms of commodity inflation we experienced an $8 million increase.
As David pointed out rising natural gas pricing was the key driver.
We have had 75% of our Q4 exposure at $3.95 per MMBtu and nearly 60% of Q1 2014 at around $4.
These actions will reduce the potential exposure to natural gas price hikes.
Now looking at commodity inflation our view is that input prices will remain consistent with the levels we saw in Q3 for the remainder of 2013.
However due to commodity deflation in the back end of last year we do face a more difficult year-over-year inflation comparison in Q4 driven predominantly by secondary fiber energy and external paper.
As a result we expect the year-over-year comparison headwind in Q4 to be $15 million to $20 million.
With regards to performance improvements David detailed the drivers of our results.
Year-to-date we have delivered $75 million of productivity improvements.
A review of the status of our cost reduction initiatives show that they are progressing well and we expect annual performance improvement to be comfortably around $100 million.
Now to summarize through 9 months EBITDA grew $15 million as we cycle through downward price resets of $26 million related to 2013 deflation and offset $31 million of inflation by delivering $75 million of performance improvement and growing volumes through the European acquisitions.
Now to turn to Q4 guidance.
Earlier this year we told you that we expected EBITDA for 2013 to improve by roughly $30 million over last year.
This guidance reflected our view of no noticeable change in economic activity modest inflation and cycling through the remaining downward price resets.
This view has not changed.
However given the Q3 business divestitures we are raising our 2013 debt reduction guidance from $250 million to $300 million and correspondingly lowering our Q4 EBITDA guidance by $4 million to reflect the impact of the exited businesses plus some costs associated with these transactions.
On an annual basis the net EBITDA impact of these exits is expected to be around $12 million.
Now in summary given the changes we expect Q4 EBITDA to be about $10 million higher than Q4 2012 and full year EBITDA to be in the range of $25 million greater than last year.
On an earnings per share basis we expect Q4 to be in the $0.10 to $0.11 range.
Now looking forward to 2014 our view is becoming more optimistic.
We have cycled through the downward price resets.
Price will turn positive as contracts resets will reflect CRB CUK and other commodity increases.
With a more manageable price cost spread a greater portion of our improvement initiatives will flow to the bottom line.
Our backlog of performance improvement initiatives is strong and should produce $80 million to $100 million of benefits including strong contributions from our 2013 investments in our mills and Europe.
Now turning to Slide 14.
You'll find our cash flow debt and liquidity summary.
As we commented earlier we are raising our net debt reduction targets to $300 million.
Operating cash flow was strong in the quarter at $160 million.
Due to our refinancing activities earlier this year interest expense in the quarter was down 10% versus last year.
Now as I referenced earlier we executed and amend and extend on our bank loan facility reducing rates by 25 basis points.
We also added 18 months to the maturity and are providing ample liquidity to our European and Japanese businesses through these facilities.
In summary we invested $3 million for the amendments but expect to save $4 million in annual interest expense due to the lower pricing.
Overall if you look at our entire debt portfolio we have an average effective borrowing rate of 3.5%.
With the greater upward pressure on interest rates we are well positioned as we have hedged LIBOR at -- into 2016 at 75 basis points.
And as we execute our near-term debt reduction goals what this means is that our interest rate exposure will approach 70% fixed.
Now turning to the last slide you will see our refreshed guidance for 2013.
Please note that we added a new line item for tax rate.
We expect 2013 full year effective tax rate to be about 41% to 42%.
Remember we continued to not pay U.S.
cash income tax as we consume the NOL.
Our NOL balance currently stands at $766 million.
The other point I'd like to make on this page is that we expect to end 2013 with our net leverage ratio right at 3x.
Now the remainder of our guidance is listed on the slide.
And if you have any questions about them we will address them during the Q&amp;A period.
And with those comments I will turn the call back over to the operator.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question is from Ghansham Panjabi.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Mehul Dalia sitting in for Ghansham.
Seems like there are a lot of moving parts in the Flexible business during this quarter.
Can you detail some of the moving parts in that business given the profitability weakness that was reported when stripping out that gain on the sale? Well the primary moving parts in Flexible were the sale of the retail plastics business.
The rest of the business the overall sales on the external thing were pretty flat.
The mill as you know had a -- we announced that this was the quarter for the downtime for our Pine Bluff Arkansas mill.
So of course in that period of time we lose some tons and some EBITDA.
But we -- the changes we made there are going to significantly improve the yield and throughput for that facility.
So as we came out of the quarter we started to see significant improvement in the Pine Bluff mill.
And as we head into the fourth quarter we expect the same.
If you remember last quarter I mentioned that one of our converting facilities in Philadelphia struggled in the third -- in the second quarter.
By the time the end of the quarter -- the third quarter we were breakeven to slightly positive in that facility.
So we saw positive movement in Flexible as we moved through the quarter which is why as I said in my comments as I move into 2014 we clearly expect that business to be double-digit EBITDA margins.
Research Division</strong> All right great.
And more long term I guess ideally how big do you think that the Flexible the business needs to be in terms of scale? Well our Flex -- well and I hate calling it Flexible because Flexible sort of things like plastics.
So if you would think about it in terms of sort of -- for us it's really now at this point a multi-wall bag business for the most part.
It is a business that we're going to make bags and make our own paper.
As I said we for the most part have integrated a lot of the tons in the Pine Bluff mill.
So our business -- we still like the multi-wall bag business.
It's still a good cash flow business.
We think the EBITDA margins will get better.
A lot of the substitution we've seen in plastics has really sort of hit a plateau.
So there's some positive rebound back in that business and it's a pure integrated business.
So even though it's not like Paperboard we run it very much like Paperboard now because we've sort of gotten rid of all the ancillary things.
We're already from a critical mass standpoint we're already big enough.
That doesn't mean that we wouldn't add to the multi-wall bag portfolio if it made sense for us to do so.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And last question.
Given your upsized productivity target to $100 million for this year is there any pull-forward from next year? Or are you still expecting productivity in the same range as you had previously guided to? I think if you listened to the scripts of what we've told you for 2014 we expect the range to be $80 million to $100 million.
And if you remember we've made a lot of investment in Europe and we've made investments in our bio-mass boiler and a lot -- and those types of investments are going to start paying dividends in terms of productivity in 2014.
So we're pretty confident that that's going to be a range that we can attain -- achieve.
Daniel [indiscernible] but by this time of the year guys we've already started to lay in '14 stuff right and what we're going to do.
So we have a pretty good visibility over what our productivity stuff will be.
The only caveat I will say to any of that is and the one that everybody recognized I said it before is that all of that assumes a certain underlying demand.
So we're not expecting a material change in demand in the business.
We're assuming we're going to have save money on sort of the kind of trends that we've seen but that's the caveat.
Because a lot of our cost savings comes from throughput better yields and so on and so forth which assumes that you sell and run through your converting and mill assets.
The next question is from George Staphos from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Alex Wang sitting in for George.
First question what is the year-over-year change in adjusted EBITDA in Paperboard? And was the performance as expected or was there any deceleration in the period? First off we really don't -- you mean the segments right? We really don't detail that out.
We detail out in the press release operating income right? So in terms of looking at it overall if you want a general comment about it all the improvements that we had generated in the growing of the $4.4 million is coming from Paperboard.
And we realized Alex it's sort of a confusing quarter to look through with all the changes.
But a lot of the flexible improvement was really sort of from the sale and from accounting stuff.
If you look at true improvement so EBITDA improvement year-on-year it came from Paperboard.
We sold more tons.
Our acquisitions were positive and contributed.
And despite the fact there were some volume issues -- some demand issues in subsegments of Paperboard overall overall Paperboard sales were up.
And that translated to increased EBITDA.
Research Division</strong> And second question was there any impact on reported operating comparisons from the mill divestitures in the quarter? That was really a small divestiture.
And so it's not -- it's so insignificant that it's not even worth even thinking about at this point.
I mean that was a small URB mill and it sold for a relatively small amount of money as well.
I mean just on a perspective basis Alex we make say roughly 2.5 million tons.
That mill made 50 000.
So you won't -- we won't even -- we will really totally -- you wouldn't expect a significant impact on our business.
And by the way it's also the lower end of the profitability tons because it's uncoated recycled paper.
So if you look in our -- from SUS and kraft and the CRB this was the lower end of the profit pool for us.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just lastly maybe if you can talk about overall what kind of volume rates are you seeing in early 4Q? Well I don't usually give a lot of those day-to-day guidance.
It's not because I'm trying not to it's just that for a business this size giving day-to-day trends doesn't help much.
But what I would tell you is beer has continued to be strong.
Cereal has continued to struggle I think relative to what we saw in the third quarter.
It feels about the same.
So I would say our planning or our focus on demand trends at this point in time is saying we would not expect to see a significantly different trend than we saw in the quarter in the third quarter.
Europe is still doing well.
The multi-wall bag business has got some improvement in its trends.
But I think for the most part consumer is still pretty challenged guys.
I mean unemployment rates are not great.
Fuel costs are still up relatively speaking.
The consumer's challenged and it's certainly impacting demand.
Next question is from Alex Ovshey from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Usha Guntupalli sitting in for Alex.
First question.
So for the $30 million to $40 million pricing benefit outlook for 2014 could you help us understand how you're thinking about it? Because looking at the price increases announced so far seems like a low number.
Yes.
I think as we've talked about before our contracts that use board price increases they're delayed.
So some of these -- the increases we got in Paperboard in the third quarter we won't even start to see some of those roll through until fourth quarter of next year right in many of those things.
So it's just a roll through.
If you look at the overall we would say that overall pricing impact to the enterprise over a 2-year period of time is going to be well over $100 million.
Well over.
You shoot all in 40 you're all -- I'm sorry next year what you're actually going to see is probably around that $40 million range that will impact the business.
Our run rate as we exit '14 will be materially higher and that's based on our current estimate on the process.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And what are you hearing from your customers on forward demand outlook for fourth quarter in '14? Do you get a sense that there's increased focus on promotions for boosting volumes? I get a sense that they believe that volumes are going to get better.
I do not get a sense that they know why.
So what I would say is that there's a lot more promotional activity going on.
Our customers are optimistic about their demand and the recovery in the process.
I'm going to be a little more cautious in -- you're going to have to actually show me before I'm buying into it.
And I think that's about all we can say at this point in time.
The data is just not -- is not very precise.
I do know this: I certainly know that beer is better.
I know that -- we cannot see a specific catalyst in soft drink.
There's clearly more promotional activity.
We're going to head into the Super Bowl period of time.
We're going to head into the holidays.
And that traditionally has been an uptick in those businesses so you would expect to see more promotions and more volume.
Having said that back-to-school is generally a period of time where we see some pretty impressive volume changes.
And cereal was up sequentially 6% from Q2 to Q3.
That's pretty anemic relative to the kind of increases we historically see.
We would expect cereal demand quarter-on-quarter be up 10% to 15% historically.
Didn't happen.
So some of these demand trends are different.
They're changing.
This is a very very strange economy as you well know.
I don't think all the stuff with all the uncertainty that Washington's injecting into the market is helping us.
Too many variables to get a legitimately strong predictor of what volume and demand is going to be.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And one last question.
So on the flexible business your target for margins is around the 10% heading into '14.
What's the upside in the medium term to that number? Well we haven't -- we wouldn't really give a lot of guidance in the quarter.
But I would tell you that our expectations is that we should be seeing margins as we exit this year certainly 8.5% and above.
And I think -- and I know I don't think I know the team that's running that business has those expectations as well.
And so if you look at the investment we made in the Pine Bluff mill in the first quarter we'll get a full impact of all that.
If you look at the improvement that were in our operational converting facilities and you think about the businesses that we kind of sold off of that process getting to 10% is a reasonable expectation for us in Q1 of '14.
Your next question is from Philip Ng from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> The $3 million of net debt reduction that you're guiding for '13 is that just all operations? Or is some of that a function of -- from the proceeds from the asset sales as well? It also has proceeds from the asset sales as well as those charges we incurred for the shutdown of Brampton in that as well as well as some of the fees we paid to execute those transactions.
So if you look for operations it's -- we're more in the $250 million range like we guided to before.
And then on top of that we added $50 million worth in net number for the other stuff that we executed in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then from a leverage target standpoint I mean you guys are going to hit that 3x leverage target you've been pushing for.
So with all that free cash flow you're generating how should we be thinking about cash flow deployment going into '14? Is there an opportunity before you start returning more cash back to shareholders? Well we're certainly going to look to return value to shareholders.
So 2 things: A part of that is yes we'll certainly look at what we're doing relative to our free cash flow and how we might more effectively use it.
We are however continuing to do some of these little bolt-on acquisitions.
They've been good for us.
You can see the results have been buoyed by those things and so we're going to continue to do those.
We have ideas.
We have concepts.
We have some things that we will work on.
And so we'll -- Dan and I will balance the difference between how acquisitions work and returning cash to shareholders.
But if we continue to hit our $300 million worth of free cash flow that Dan sort of talks about in 2014 clearly we're going to have to consider options on how we return cash to shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then -- sorry.
I'm still surprised with -- can you give us a little color on the corporate expense for next year? I know pension expenses are going to meet a little tailwind next year.
Should that come down? Right.
I mean Phil as you know a lot of the calculations for pensions result at year end.
I mean if you would think it would come down because the discount rate has shown improvement.
But we got another quarter to go and then we run these calculations and then we run the expense.
But through the third quarter it's definitely trending that way.
Your next question is from Ketan Mamtora from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned in your presentation that European acquisitions added about $17 million to sales in Q3.
Can you give us some color on either what the EBITDA contribution was or maybe from a margin standpoint? We do not break out the margins or pieces of our Paperboard Packaging segment.
But we can tell you that those margins after we integrate and we head into 2014 our contribution from Europe is going to be somewhere in that $20 million range or better than 2013.
So you're going to see the contribution in terms of value growing to shareholders from that transaction.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just one follow-up question.
As you look at some of these offshore markets maybe Europe and also Mexico how would you think about investment in those markets? Do you see attractive opportunities out there? Well that's a really good question.
And the answer is it really depends by market.
So what we used to do in Europe as you know is we needed to establish a base that was big enough for us to do additional acquisitions to build around.
And that's really what we established with A&amp;R and Contego.
So would I expand and make more acquisitions in Western Europe? If you look at the results we generate from this one you have to say yes.
Because if we can find similar sort of bolt-on acquisition to generate this kind of return and these kind of margins we're going to do that.
Yes I'd like to be bigger in Mexico for sure.
Mexico is a much more complicated question.
You're peso denominated.
There's a lot of currency risk in that process.
And to be perfectly honest what we really struggle on in Mexico is being able to determine if in fact the EBITDA reported is actually the EBITDA that's actually generated.
So we're a lot more cautious in Mexico because sometimes I don't know what I'm buying.
And so each region of the world we have an interest in acquiring.
But we are not going to be planting flags serendipitously just because we feel like we need to be in a region.
We need to keep the same discipline and acquisition as we've had in the United States and in Europe.
So if I find something good that I can confirm and believe I'll do.
If I'm not sure I'm not going to waste shareholders' money.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just 2 quick follow-up questions.
On the productivity target for 2014 and correct me if I'm wrong here I was thinking that you had earlier pointed to $60 million to $80 million for 2014 and today you talked about $80 million to -- did I get my previous numbers wrong? It was probably the European -- because I don't know how far back it goes but those numbers now include the European synergy acquisition so they came up a little bit -- I think it's basically the delta is just how far back you went now calculating and adding the European synergies of $16 million to $18 million which I think Dan and I both believe at this point in time are doable for sure.
That's right.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So $80 million to $100 million includes the $16 million to $18 million of European synergies? Yes sir.
It does.
It just makes it easier than breaking all that out.
It's just pure performance.
It's pure cost improvement and it makes it easier for you guys to model and it makes it easier for us to take the phone calls around it.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
And then just one last one.
In terms of CapEx for 2014 do you still think it will be in the $185 million $200 million range? Yes.
Yes we do.
[Operator Instructions] You do have a follow-up question from George Staphos.
Research Division</strong> It's George.
Sorry I jumped on late.
Dueling conference calls.
The first question I had do you see a need at any stage perhaps to reposition your assets that are aligned more towards the CSD business if that at all would be possible? Given the volume trends that as you say on the slide deck you thus far don't see a positive catalyst coming on.
Then I had a follow-on.
Okay.
Well the fact of the matter is that the CSD business is there.
It's still pretty good for Fridge Vendor.
And I think you're talking about the investments we made at parity.
So we're not really struggling to fill the parity volume up which is the -- which is Fridge Vendor.
It's some of the other different SKUs that cause bigger problems.
None of those assets are -- none of those assets in the converting site are such that they cannot be repurposed if it makes sense to do so.
We can use those -- those are 10-color flexo presses so we can use those to do a lot of other things if it makes sense to do so.
Right now they're well -- they're busy making carbonated soft drink.
But if a point in time comes that Pepsi and Coca-Cola cannot sell soft drink then we'll reposition them to something else.
There's still going to be incredibly low-cost assets because they're sitting there right next to Macon paperboard mill.
And when you -- I think you toured our facilities.
You know that there are not many converting assets in the world that stack up to Graphic Packaging's.
Research Division</strong> Certainly not next to Perry.
It's a great operation.
Anyway I just wanted to ask the question.
I appreciate the response there Dave.
And I thank you if this question was asked before but apologies if it already has.
Did you see any deceleration in the quarter relative to what your expectation have been going into the quarter? And it sounds like business has picked up somewhat in the fourth quarter but is it at the level you would have anticipated again say a couple 3 months ago? Well I think it's -- a couple 3 months ago I don't -- I would say that we were as you -- as I told you I thought we were pretty cautious about the quarter.
What I would tell you is I'm kind of disappointed this far after the 2009 meltdown that we haven't seen a stronger rebound.
But one of the reasons we became very aggressive in good bolt-on acquisitions and hyped up the new product activity is because we sort of felt like some of these core markets would struggle.
So I don't -- we're -- they are what they are.
I love our position in beer right now.
Big beer craft beer we're -- that's a good business for us guys.
It really is.
And so if I look at one thing that's structured you talked about the one that struggles the most I think is carbonated soft drink.
But I think the other businesses like dry food and cereal quite frankly they should be fine long term.
I mean it's not a situation where you would expect them to see or to be in a structural decline.
Those are good products.
They're good-for-you products.
The demographics -- long-term demographics fit those products so I think we feel pretty good about that.
For us however it's expanding that addressable pie.
If I can do more with my solid fiber replacing other packaging whether it's flexible or corrugated so that increases the overall pie for Paperboard space and that's really what we're trying to do.
And then we'll layer on some acquisitions that allow us to use the extra board that we make during the year and that kind of worked -- I mean in fairness guys that's kind of what drives the EBITDA and cash flow.
It's not a complicated model.
Research Division</strong> Maybe on that point and to the extent that you can comment and maybe you can't really talk to 2014 yet but if we hold pricing and inflation constant considering the productivity you expect to gain including European synergies and the pricing benefits you should have built in given the lag should we not see greater EBITDA growth in '14 than what you're seeing in '13? So now you sound like one of my board members.
And what I'll simply tell you is at this point in time we're not providing EBITDA guidance for 2014.
I think as Dan said in his comments we are optimistic about 2014.
I like the profile -- pricing profile better.
I still expect to get $50 million -- $40 million to $50 million worth of inflation next year in the input costs.
And I like some of the positioning from a market standpoint on both new products and geographics.
So overall as I sit here right now I feel better about 2014.
But translate that down to EBITDA at this point in time we haven't really even finalized our 2014 numbers and plans.
It feels like I -- that's leaning too far in for us at this point.
The next question is from Joshua Zaret from Longbow Research.
Here's a simple question.
In Flexible Packaging you reported EBIT of $8.8 million.
What would that number be if you strip out the nonrecurring? We're doing math.
And also if you do that with the Paperboard Packaging as well.
Yes that's going to be a loss of somewhere around $10 million.
Yes which is comparable to last year at this point.
A loss of $10 million for Flexible Packaging okay.
And what would it be for Paperboard? Add $5 million to the Paperboard.
Excuse can you say that again please? Add $5 million to Paperboard.
I have no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Ankerholz do you have any closing remarks? Well we'll go back to operating the business and talk to you in the first quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
At this time you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Graphic Packaging Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Brad Ankerholz Vice President and Treasurer of Graphic Packaging.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Regina and welcome everybody to the Graphic Packaging Holding Company's fourth quarter and full-year 2013 earnings call.
Commenting on the results this morning are David Scheible the company's Chairman President and CEO; and Dan Blount our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
To help you follow along with today's call we have provided a slide presentation which can be accessed by clicking on the Q4 earnings webcast link on our Investor Relations section of our website which is graphicpkg.com.
I would like to remind everyone that statements of our expectations plans estimates and beliefs regarding future performance and events constitute forward-looking statements.
Such statements are based on currently available information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's present expectations.
Information regarding these risks and uncertainties is contained in the company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements as such statements speak only as of the date on which they are made and the company undertakes no obligation to update such statements.
David I'll turn it over to you now.
Thanks Brad.
Good morning everyone.
We had a busy quarter including integration activities business divestitures stock repurchases and fighting some difficult consumer trends.
So overall I'm very pleased that our fourth quarter earnings and cash flow were in line with our expectations.
Both volume and sales in our core Paperboard Packaging segment increased in the quarter with volumes up 2.3% and sales up 7.2%.
Adjusted EBITDA increased 5.4% to over $158 million.
And margins at 14.7% were up 0.4 points from the same period last year.
We did not see a significant change to the terms in our core end markets in the quarter.
And we continue to drive volumes and margins higher through a strategy focused on new products acquisitions and productivity initiatives.
We've been very strategic in the way we are building this business.
Graphic Packaging is designed to deliver long-term sustainable growth in both good and bad operating environments.
Volume trends in many of our core markets have remained challenging for several years now and there's no way to predict when or if those markets may improve.
We are certainly not unique in struggling to anticipate new consumer trends in this environment but we cannot wait around for a pickup in demand.
Rather it's our job to find a way to continue to grow this business and gain market share even in a flat to down volume backdrop.
And that's exactly what we have done through a balanced strategic approach by investing in our core food and beverage business developing new innovative products and making tuck-under acquisitions.
And of course Graphic Packaging always is working to improve the productivity across the operation.
We're committed to investing in our core food and beverage business globally.
One way to do this is by developing new and innovative solutions to help our customers differentiate their products and lower their supply chain costs.
This year new products for sales were up almost $100 million.
Supporting this growth during Q4 we launched a new strength-package container for mandarin oranges and other fresh fruit.
The new package provides a secure way to transport fruit from the grocer to the retailer and provides a superior branding opportunity versus traditional mesh produce bags.
We also commercialized 2 brand-new Z-Flute cartons and a large Litho-Flute box that were specifically designed to withstand the unique palletizing and display demands of the warehouse club channel.
Tite-Pak which is our new proprietary beer bottle carton continues to gain traction in the market.
We launched new Tite-Pak cartons for MillerCoors and ABI in the fourth quarter.
Tite-Pak solidifies our existing share in the solid fiber category and delivers a competitive advantage over other fiber alternatives.
We are excited by the long-term potential of Tite-Pak globally and continue to see ongoing interest everywhere.
Frozen pizza cereal dry food beer carbonated soft drinks you all know these are all big markets and they're important and new segments for us.
The trends in many of these markets have been flat to down for a couple of years now.
So in addition to launching new products we're driving healthy results by optimizing our asset structure.
We're driving down our costs and we're improving our productivity.
A good example of this in 2013 was the investment we made in our Kalamazoo recycle board mill.
Specifically we invested $40 million to upgrade the Kalamazoo paper machine #1 coating application to a state-of-the-art system.
This upgrade will replace the traditional air-knife coater with a new curtain coater allowing the new mill to reduce the waste it will use a lot less TiO2 and it will improve the throughput.
We had extensive R&amp;D work that was completed in the mill process and exhaustive printing and press trials have been successfully run throughout our conversion network in preparation for this conversion.
The mill will transition to this coating technology in Q1 2014.
We're committed to core food and beverage markets and our focus on investing more resources in subsectors of the markets that we're growing volumes.
These areas include things like microwave craft beer dry foods and pasta and from a channel perspective the warehouse club stores.
We invested in each of these areas in 2013 and saw significant growth in those categories.
For example on our Wausau converting plant we invested almost $10 million in a new production line to boost the capacity and improve productivity for our proprietary microwave products.
We've seen significant growth in the microwave business and we continue to be an industry leader in this category.
Most of the new capacity in our Wausau facility is focused on frozen foods particularly on the lower-calorie offerings.
We're also focused on making strategic tuck-in acquisitions.
We successfully integrated the Contego Packaging and A&amp;R beverage packing businesses that we purchased last year and created a platform for continued growth and market share gains in Europe.
Europe's become a very meaningful part of our business and we like the underlying fundamentals of that market.
These are very large and mature end markets that are supported by strong consumer demographics.
But the carton industry is very fragmented which provides an opportunity for us to differentiate ourselves.
Look we know how to drive volumes and productivity rates in mature markets and believe that there's a meaningful opportunity in Europe to do just that over time.
Finally we are focused on divesting our non-core businesses and freeing up capital to reinvest in our core businesses or of course to pay down debt.
Earlier this week we closed on the sale of our Labels business to Multi-Color Corporation which included 2 plants located in Greensboro North Carolina and Norwood Ohio.
During the third quarter of 2013 we sold our Pekin Illinois URB mill and completed the sale of our flexible retail plastics business to Berry Plastics.
The sale of our plastics business included 3 different facilities and we also closed our Brampton Ontario Canada facility in early October.
Labels URB plastics were not key businesses for us and the exit from these businesses frees up capital management time and allows us to better focus on the core vertically integrated business that is key to us.
Let's talk a little bit about the folding carton business.
Our global folding carton business increased 2.7% in the fourth quarter and was driven predominantly by our recent European acquisitions.
This was partially offset by continued softness in our legacy U.S.
beverage and consumer products folding carton markets.
Turns on the beverage side were mixed in the quarter.
Carbonated soft drink demand remained weak.
And while we have seen some improvement trends in 2014 we are not going to suggest this market is ready to improve materially.
The Can Manufacturing Institute (sic) [Can Manufacturers Institute] estimated that industry volumes across the canned beverage markets decreased 3.9% in the fourth quarter with nonalcoholic beverages down 5.7% and alcoholic beverages down only about 0.4%.
We've had a number of new-product commercializations that have helped our overall volumes in CSD but the underlying trends remain relatively unchanged in that sector.
Beer of course different story.
We began to see beer trends improve late in third quarter and that trend generally held through the fourth quarter.
The Kraft beer sector which is one of our strategic areas where we continue to invest and develop remained strong in the fourth quarter.
We also saw modest improvements in the take-home side of the beer business as the quarter progressed.
Beer packaging in Europe grew in Q4 for Graphic Packaging as well.
These are all positive trends for our beer business on a global basis.
Trends in some of our core food end markets such as cereal frozen food and dry foods remained relatively weak in the fourth quarter.
A.C.
Nielsen reported that cereal was down about 3% prepared frozen food is down about 2% and overall dry foods' down about 1% maybe a little less.
A slow employment recovery the recent curtailment of the SNAP food stamp program and some de-stocking by major retailers all continued to weigh on the food markets in the fourth quarter.
Many of you know the government cut back its SNAP food stamp program on November 1 of last year.
The cuts amounted to a roughly 5.5% to 6% reduction in monthly benefits to an individual family under the program.
While it's still really early we know this had a negative impact on the low income and consumer in the fourth quarter.
And this is just one more factor pressuring the sector -- this sector of the food market.
Our Flexible Packaging business remains a work in progress.
I really thought we would have made more progress in this business by now but it remains a challenge.
A lot of it has been market-related particularly in multi-wall bag.
But some of our issues are of our own making and we need to address both elements in 2014.
The sale of our plastics business and Label business of course reduced the overall significance to Graphic Packaging of this business and allows us to focus resources on a smaller footprint to improve the results.
Fortunately we don't really need to make big capital and investments to grow or improve these operations.
While margins remain modestly likely more in the high single-digit to low double the business will generate positive cash flow and a reasonable return on capital.
In the latter half of 2013 we did implement several cost structure projects and we have just now started to see some benefits.
New equipment and other changes to the Pine Bluff mill have begun to improve profitability.
We are also starting to gain some traction with initiatives in our converting facility in New Philadelphia Ohio.
However the underlying volume trends in this business remain challenging.
And as a result our turnaround progress has been somewhat slower than we would have expected.
Additionally while we have seen pricing improvement across all other paper grades during 2013 we did not miss business despite higher fiber energy and chemical costs.
Accordingly we announced yesterday a $50-a-ton price increase on kraft paper grades effective in March.
Like I said we're a work in progress but I'm optimistic we will improve markedly in 2014.
Overall in performance we had another strong quarter and we generated about $25 million of performance improvements across the business in the quarter which brought our total in 2013 to roughly $100 million.
Biomass boiler in Macon Georgia mill was operational throughout the quarter and this was the second quarter we generated our own energy in the facility.
And we continue to estimate the savings in energy to be around $20 million per year.
In relation to this project we had expected to receive an approximate $25 million government grant before the year end but we're still waiting on this.
Various factors beyond our control have delayed the grant.
And we now expect to receive this during the first half of 2014.
Looking at our European business.
In September we completed the consolidation of the Gillingham U.K.
converting plant into our other lower-cost facilities.
The integration of Contego Packaging and A&amp;R beverage packaging business in Europe continues to drive cost savings.
And we remain very comfortable with the $16 million to $18 million synergy target we provided you that we will realize in 2014.
Look we're very pleased with the performance of our European business overall.
We're ahead of our own expectations in building our platform in the region.
Europe has become a meaningful strategic business for us and we believe there are significant opportunities to continue to build and grow this business long term.
Now look at our paperboard mills we had a good quarter just like all 2013.
Both total production and tons per day increased demand for our CRB and SUS remains strong backlogs are in that 3- to 4-week for both grades.
The increase in production was driven by our continuous improvement efforts in energy operating efficiencies and fixed costs.
We look for -- we took no down -- unplanned downtime in the quarter and we came out of our planned annual outages better than the previous year.
Pricing turned positive in the fourth quarter as we generated $4.3 million of positive pricing benefits.
This reverses a trend through the first 3 quarters of 2013 where pricing climbed by nearly $26 million.
The increase in the fourth quarter was slightly ahead of our projections and I think it positions us well moving into 2014.
You'll remember that prices for both SUS and CRB have increased significantly over the past year reflecting strong demand and healthy lead times for both substrates.
Since the beginning of 2013 SUS pricing has increased by approximately $85 a ton and CRB roughly $75 a ton.
These increases should benefit our open market board sales and carton contracts containing board escalators in 2014.
The majority of our carton contracts have mechanisms that allow prices to move up or down with changes in certain inflationary items.
No 2 carton contracts are the same but contract pricing generally adjusts on a 9-month basis.
So we expect pricing to remain positive throughout 2014.
If I look at commodity input pricing it was relatively stable on a sequential basis compared to last quarter.
Looking at the fourth quarter this year versus the quarter last year commodity input inflation increased by approximately $16 million.
Energy no surprise led by natural gas was once again the biggest commodity inflation item increasing $7 million in the quarter.
Secondary fiber were up modestly in the quarter by roughly $3 million.
Nothing else was material in and of itself.
Increases in the cost of external board corrugated boxes freight and resins were the other drivers but none of them as I said were significant.
Looking forward we delivered another solid quarter in what remains to be a challenging operating environment.
We drove volume increases to maintain high operating margins through strong operational performance.
We also continue to invest in the future optimize our assets around our customer needs.
We do not expect some end markets will be more -- we do expect some end markets will be more challenged than others but we are continuously finding ways to gain share and expand our addressable market.
Looking ahead we expect pricing to remain positive in 2014.
We expect to continue to find high-quality acquisitions globally and believe we are well positioned to gain share and grow our top line EBITDA and cash flow.
And with that I'll turn it over to Dan for a more detailed discussion of our financial results and initial outlook for 2014.
Dan? Yes.
Thanks David and good morning everyone.
To assist with our review I will refer to our posted presentation.
Let's begin on Slide 11 with the financial highlights.
Overall both Q4 and full-year results show solid gains.
In our discussion this morning we will cover the reasons for our improvement.
But as I reflect on 2013 I think our work in 3 areas stands out.
This work clearly benefited us this year but also positions us well heading into 2014.
One we wrung another $100 million of cost out of the business through productivity improvements.
Our cost structure is in good shape.
And in 2014 we should build upon this work to improve margins further.
Two through acquisitions built a large-scale well-capitalized European business that drove revenue growth.
Going forward Europe provides a strong platform for further growth and margin improvement.
And then three upgraded our capital structure lower-cost debt and ample liquidity more than adequate resources to fund capital and expansion needs going forward.
It was a good solid year of accomplishment.
Now let's get into more detail by focusing on the Q4 numbers on Slide 11.
Adjusted EBITDA up 5.4% to $158 million as the margin improved to 14.7%.
Adjusted net income increased $25 million to over $58 million.
Adjusted earnings per share for the quarter at $0.17 and double the $0.08 we reported last year.
Before turning to the full-year numbers there are 2 tax items to discuss.
First we had an income tax benefit of $3.5 million for the quarter.
This benefit principally relates to recent guidance from the IRS relating to the taxability of the black liquor tax credit.
When we recorded the credit back in 2009 it was net of income tax.
Updated guidance released in October now concludes that the credit is not subject to federal income tax.
Recording this reversal is the principal reason our full year 2013 income tax rate dropped to 32%.
With our growth in international markets we expect our effective tax rate to be in the 38% range for 2014.
The second point on taxes as David mentioned is that due to government delays we have not yet received the tax grants related to the Macon biomass boiler.
We have noted that other companies applying for similar renewable energy grants have also experienced delays.
We are tracking the status of the government review process and do not anticipate any issues with our tax grant application.
We expect the full $25 million refund within the next 3 to 5 months.
As a reminder the tax grant will not be recorded through the P&amp;L as an offset to income tax expense rather as a balance sheet adjustment to reduce the investment in the biomass boiler.
Now let's focus on the full-year numbers we're still on Slide 11.
EBITDA was up 3.5% to over $670 million as the margin improved to 15% for the year.
Adjusted earnings per share grew from $0.37 to $0.52.
Now as is our normal practice we adjusted EBITDA and net income for specific nonrecurring items divestitures post-acquisition integration capital structure expenses.
During the quarter we incurred $18 million of nonrecurring charges.
$2 million relates to costs associated with recent business divestitures and the secondary offering.
The bulk of it $16 million relates to the final and I do repeat final charges related to our European integration activities.
In 2014 we expect European results to improve by $16 million to $18 million as a result of acquisition integration investments.
Now let's move to Slide 12 the Q4 sales bridge.
You see a 2% or $22 million increase over the prior year.
David described that the increase principally results from the European acquisitions offset by weakness in beverage and certain consumer products categories as well as the reduction of revenues related to the divestitures of the retail plastics business and the URB mill.
Price did turn positive in the quarter and we expect price to remain positive in 2014 as we recover 2013 inflation.
In terms of the business divestitures the quarter-over-quarter sales reduction resulted from these exited businesses was approximately $33 million.
On Slide 13 the Q4 EBITDA bridge you see that gains from price operating performance and European volume growth more than offset inflation and currency headwinds.
EBITDA grew by $8.1 million year-over-year.
EBITDA margin for the quarter up 40 basis points to what we -- like we said 14.7%.
Taking a closer look at commodity inflation we experienced a $16 million increase.
As David pointed out energy driven by rising natural gas pricing accounted for nearly half of the increase.
Due to unusually cold weather natural gas prices have continued to rise.
For those of you familiar with our risk mitigation practices you know that we run an active natural gas hedging program to reduce exposure to price volatility.
For the first half of 2014 we locked in 60% of our expected need at approximately $4 per MMBtu.
We also have nearly 50% coverage on the remainder of the year at just over $4 per MMBtu.
With the -- now moving to performance improvements.
David detailed the drivers of our $100 million of productivity improvement.
We continue to have a strong pipeline of continuous improvement projects.
And when combined with synergies from our European integration and benefits from our new Macon biomass boiler we expect to see 2014 net performance benefits in the range of $70 million to $90 million.
And then lastly in terms of divestitures the quarter-over-quarter EBITDA reduction resulting from business exits approximated $3 million.
Now summarizing the year.
EBITDA grew $23 million as we cycled through downward price resets of $22 million related to 2012 deflation and offset $52 million of inflation by delivering $100 million of performance improvement and by growing volumes through the European acquisitions.
Now let's turn to Slide 14.
You'll find our cash flow debt and liquidity summary.
Cash flow for 2013 was strong as net cash from operations totaled $458 million.
Including divestiture proceeds and net of CapEx we generated $280 million of free cash flow.
We used $200 million of cash resources to return value to shareholders with a share repurchase.
This repurchase action at a price of $8.38 per share is 7% EPS accretive.
Including the $300 million repurchase in December 2012 at $6.10 per share over the last 13 months we have repurchased $500 million in shares that on a combined basis is 18% EPS accretive.
For the year our leverage ratio improved to 3.3x and we have ample liquidity of over $680 million.
We continue to target the 2.5x to 3x leverage ratio range but we'll as communicated before venture outside this range to fund accretive acquisitions or other high-return investments.
Our current expectation for 2014 is to reduce leverage back within our target range.
Now turning to the last slide you see our guidance for 2014.
Let me start with a couple of comments about our success with divesting non-core businesses and freeing up capital to invest in higher-margin core businesses or pay down debt.
In 2013 you saw as we've commented that we sold our URB mill and our flexible retail plastics.
Plus earlier this week our Labels business was sold.
We have no further plans for divestitures as our remaining business portfolio consists of core vertically integrated packaging businesses.
The combined proceeds from the business sales totaled approximately $150 million.
The last 12-month LTM revenue and EBITDA from the divestitures totaled approximately $200 million and $21 million respectively.
Now looking forward into 2014 as we focus on our core vertically integrated businesses we expect continued improvement in financial performance.
We have cycled through the downward price resets.
Price will continue to be positive as contracts resets to reflect CRB CUK and other commodity increases.
With a more manageable price-cost spread a greater portion of our improvement initiatives will flow to the bottom line.
Our backlog of performance improvements is strong and should produce $70 million to $90 million of benefit including strong contributions from our 2013 investments in our mills in Europe.
Additionally we expect free cash flow to grow beyond EBITDA improvement into the $350 million range as CapEx requirements will be reduced due to the completion of major projects in 2013 receipt of the biomass tax grant and drop in interest expense as we benefit from recent refinancings.
Please note that this cash target represents cash generated from operations.
The proceeds from the recent sale of the Labels business is accretive.
Now the remainder of our guidance is listed on this slide.
If you have any questions we can address them during the question-and-answer session.
And with those comments I will turn the call back to the operator.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question.
I noticed the productivity savings looks a little light relative to what you guys were talking about last quarter.
Are you guys stripping out some synergy numbers or this a function of Flexible not performing as well as you had expected? I think Phil I think you'll find that those productivity numbers the $100 million was pretty much right on what we said in terms of the range we gave you.
Research Division</strong> They're not so much 2013 I'm talking more on 2014.
Oh 2014? Oh just a sharpening our pencil as we go through our planning exercise.
I think you have to remember we've always told you that when we give you the guidance it's backed up by individual projects.
So as we get through the end of the year and we sit down with each one of the operating businesses then we hone in on those individual targets.
So we'll give you a broader range but you shouldn't have more confidence around the numbers we're providing now because they're tied to individual projects in the forwards.
The other thing that happens too is you have to remember that a lot of our productivity improvement includes -- it has an overall assumption of what we think volume is going to do on individual segments.
So as some of the volume on a go-forward basis gets -- is less certain then we dial back a little bit because we need the throughput to be able to get it.
So what I would tell you is that it's an ongoing balancing act but I feel pretty good about the targets that we provided right now.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And in terms of your Paperboard segment I mean performance has been quite strong in light of a challenging demand backdrop and a negative price-cost spread in 2013.
So when you think about 2014 with price some of the cost take-out initiatives you have in place and with synergies kicking in should we expect margins to step up a bit here in this business? I know nat gas prices have ticked up a bit but you guys do seem to be nicely hedged here.
Yes I mean I think for the math to work the margins really have to improve.
And that's certainly our expectations as well.
I mean I'm not going to give margins guidance but if you're asking me are they going to go up yes they will.
You accurately pointed out we're still going to get volume and price contribution here and in Europe.
The programs like I talked about in Kalamazoo are there to support the things that we did last year.
In Macon we spent $200 million in CapEx last year and half of that at least half of that was on pure cost-reduction activity.
So yes I feel pretty good about the cost-reduction activities the volume if it holds.
We would expect margin expansion.
And you and I have talked about this before.
It's a big fixed cost business.
So a little bit of volume improvement drops directly to the bottom line.
Right now we're being conservative about our looks in volume and price but I would expect margins to move up.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And I guess just on that last piece on the volume front I know demand has been a little choppy.
You seem to be a little more upbeat on share gains and beer but food and CSDs are still a little weak.
What's your outlook for volumes for 2014? I've almost got to get out of the business of predicting it because I don't think I've been very good at it.
What I will tell you is that our volume right now is pretty good.
Our backlogs are strong.
Now these storms in the Midwest sort of don't affect our volumes but they'd affect our ability to run our plants.
I can't get trucks in and out of my facilities.
So right now I'm much more concerned about getting this stuff delivered than I am having orders to make.
But overall I would tell you I don't expect carbonated soft drink trends to get materially better.
I think beer is continuing to improve and that's exactly what we're seeing.
And I think the others will sort of be flat versus what we saw in 2013.
At least that's our current projections.
Europe is a good market for us right now.
Backlog sales in Europe look pretty good.
So overall I am optimistic in at least the way we built our model and expectations around the volume we put in.
Research Division</strong> Is weather going to be a big headwind for you in Q1? I know a few of the companies down in the Southeast have flagged that.
Is it just more of a one-off? Is it pretty manageable or is it going to be a big hit in Q1? It's always -- weather you can't use weather as an excuse.
What I would tell you is we'll drive some -- we'll have some incremental costs in trying to get our stuff moved around.
We'll have -- freight costs will be a little different because we're trying to meet customer needs.
And we can't -- look right now if you're trying to get a big truck in and out of our Illinois or Wisconsin facilities you've got as you would like to call a headwind and they're 50 miles an hour in your face.
So the fact of the matter is they will have some costs but it's not going to have a material effect on Q1 certainly not on 2014.
Your next question will come from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Dave and Dan a couple of questions.
I think on the last quarter's conference call presentation you talked about a pricing number for 2014.
I think it was in the $30 million to $35 million range.
Correct me if that's not exactly right.
And I think you talked about the fourth quarter being a little bit better for you in 2013.
Do you have an updated pricing number to share with us for 2014? Yes I think what I said was I thought we'd be in the $30 million to $40 million range for 2014.
Certainly we're going to be more on the upper end of that range as you look at it right now.
But a lot of the folks in the space do a linear math and they'll say "Well you're just selling so many thousand tons.
You multiply it times your price increase.
You're going to get $70 million worth of pricing and lock it in." But the fact of the matter is that's not really the way that business works.
The reason it doesn't work that way is 2.
One is that makes sort of assumption on volume in those end-use sectors.
And as you can see the volume is softer.
I'm not going to get a lot of pricing.
Even though I have price increase contracts in CSD this year I'm not going to get all of that pricing on a per ton basis because they're not going to take the tons necessarily relative to year-on-year.
So I lose a little price on that side.
The second side of that deal is that when we have these contract resets and this is important to us is that this year we'll have $700 million worth of contract resets.
We do a couple of things.
One of course we take our pricing in that contract.
But the second thing we do is we look at the individual parts of that contract and there are pieces of that business that we like and there are pieces of that business that we don't.
And we will trade off with customers those pieces that don't make sense for us.
Maybe we'll trade off an SBS application for an SUS application.
You won't see that in price but where you will see that is in productivity because that will allow us to have better throughput in our mills.
So when we think about how we actually manifest that stuff into our portfolio on a long-term basis it's taking those contracts when they reset and get the business that makes it stickier that really we're the people that those customers should be doing that business with so we don't get into all this bid-ask stuff every time a contractor -- and so we'll spend a little bit of pricing money to do that because I pick it up on the productivity side of the equation getting it.
And that's why you don't do a linear thing.
We're building the model for a long term not for individual quarter cyclicality.
So when I tell you it's $30 million to $40 million is that going to be in the upper side? Yes.
Could it be a little higher? Sure.
But is it a linear process of you make this many tons times this? No that's not the way Graphic Packaging is built and never has been.
Research Division</strong> Appreciate that color Dave.
And just thinking about the input cost just for the raw materials side taking into account where gas price is whatever your base case for OCC and other important input costs how do you see your raw material inflation for 2014? Obviously realizing that there's investment -- that much visibility into that question but how do you guys see it as we stand today? I think we saw in '13 Dan around $40 million roughly mas o menos.
$40 million of inflation.
I think that's probably a pretty good number for 2014.
And you know what you're absolutely right.
It's going to be driven right now in our models predominantly by energy.
You all know -- you track this as close as I do but secondary fiber forecast for the first quarter are kind of flat.
So we're not going to see a tremendous amount of movement on OCC during that period of time.
We have seen some paperboard increases out there.
I think the SBS guys are -- have announced a $50 a ton and we buy a fair amount of SBS.
So we'll have to see that flowing through the P&amp;L as well.
That comes in inflation but then of course we raise the price on the backside.
So I'm thinking Dan $35 million to $40 million is about -- is a good number.
And Alex just to remind you that that's our input cost inflation.
And in addition we have employment inflation as well.
And that will be somewhere in that $25 million to $30 million range incrementals on top of that number.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay I appreciate that.
And just one last one from me.
On the Flexible segment or maybe that segment will be renamed here Dan you gave a sort of the pro forma numbers of revenues and EBITDA of what was divested.
Maybe the other way to ask the question is can you just sort of tell us pro forma what's left for that segment sales and EBITDA and what the plan is to try to improve that number for '14 is? Yes I think you're going to see a revenue number somewhere in that $400 million to $450 million range in that business currently as it's structured.
And part of what we do in that business we sell to ourselves.
So if you look at versus the prior year some of that is going to be due to selling the output out of the mill into those bag converting plants.
I talked to you about the productivity improvements.
We have a couple of things.
One I think the issues that we had in the paperboard mill in 2013 are behind us.
We made some investments in that to improve.
We had I told you earlier last year we had a fiber yield problem in that mill which required us to change -- do some work on the head box which we have -- we completed in September -- August September.
So we're starting to see every month good productivity and improvement out of the mill so the focus really ends up being in the converting side of that business.
We're certainly seeing progress in the cost per bag.
I think the hard thing figuring out in that business though is what the volume trends are doing because for us to get the productivity we need to see a throughput on bags.
And quite frankly that market has really struggled relative to volume and really inconsistent wide variability.
And it is a much -- it is incredible.
That business is much more impacted by weather because if you think about it it's feed and seed it's salt it's chemicals it's construction cement and the weather has not really been favorable over a long period of time for that business.
So in some ways it has been using a very tired vernacular like trying to catch a dropping knife.
So we're going to make a huge progress in 2014.
But I told you in my script I was expecting us to be further along in improving this business than we are right now.
Your next question will come from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Mehul Dalia sitting in for Ghansham.
How should we think about the progression of price costs on a quarterly basis in 2014 based on what you know now? Well I haven't done quarterly.
We haven't done quarterly.
We'll see a lot of it start in the first quarter because the contracts reset.
The fact of the matter is we won't -- in many of these contracts we see the pricing in the contracts go up when it gets to its annual date.
And so some of those contracts started in the fourth quarter which is why we got $4.3 million above that.
And then some of them will start throughout the -- will go throughout the year.
I can't give you individual quarterly because I just don't have it at my fingertips.
Like I said the run rate in the fourth quarter will certainly be above $40 million there's no question about that because what I'm giving you on $30 million to $40 million is what we will get in 2014.
So the run rate will definitely be higher by the end of the year.
Yes one thing you want to think about is there's some cyclicality to our business.
So when you're applying the assumption for price increase you should consider that for -- on a quarterly-by-quarterly basis.
There'll be more price flowing in in the months where we have higher sales volumes.
And I think that's a good technique to use.
Yes I mean you guys have not had this conversation before.
I really don't kind of really worry about the individual quarterly detail that you guys are worried about on when pricing hits.
What I'm trying to run the company for is a long term.
Anybody who's buying or selling on the quarterly ups-and-downs should buy somebody else's stock.
So what I would tell you is that overall we're going to increase the improvement of this business by the things running through quarterly changes in pricing or not.
We don't track it that closely here.
We certainly don't -- we don't provide that information.
Research Division</strong> Can you provide us an update on your M&amp;A pipeline? Is acquisitions a priority for Graphic in 2014? It will continue to be a priority for Graphic beyond 2014.
As we said in the call we really have a couple of -- we have some segments in the business that struggle from a volume standpoint.
And so for us to continue to grow the business we're going to do 2 things one is new innovative products and the second is acquisitions.
And we're going to continue to globally look for opportunities to Graphic Packaging.
And yes 2014 is like every other year.
We expect to be able to make strategic acquisitions this year.
Your next question will come from the line of Ketan Mamtora with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> It just sounds to me that you seem quite optimistic about the European business.
Can you just talk about the kind of opportunities you are seeing there and as you go along if this provides more bolt-on opportunities there? Sure.
I mean if you think a little bit about our European business even the beverage business for example the beverage business in Europe is almost exclusively beer-based.
There's really not much paperboard that goes in soft drink.
So whatever secular decline that is occurring in soft drink here in the United States is -- we don't see in Europe.
And so as I said beer was solid in this country.
Beer is growing in Europe as well.
And so with the acquisition of A&amp;R that made us a big player.
It gave us a solid position in Heineken.
We already had a big position in AB.
We've got opportunity at Beck's across the board.
So there's some great opportunities with Graphic Packaging in the beer side.
On the food side we were literally not -- we're not in the food business materially.
We just did not have the right assets.
And part of it was physical assets but we didn't have the right management team for that either.
So what we've really acquired in Europe is both the physical assets the customer share and the right management team for it.
So we have seen great success.
Guys like General Mills and Kellogg's and Kraft those are global customers.
And we're doing business now on both of those continents.
And some of that innovation activity is translated.
So as I look across Europe in a very fractionated folding carton market there's great opportunities for us to add really high-quality assets both physical as well as people.
And that's what we're doing.
So I'm optimistic about Europe because I think the kind of things that we've done here we can successfully do in Europe.
And we've got years and years of runway there because of the fractionated basis -- the fractionated structure of that market versus the United States which as you know has become a pretty consolidated space in the paperboard side.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then just switching gears to Flexible.
I mean obviously you mentioned that margin has not improved as you would've liked.
But can you just talk about which end markets are you seeing the most weakness in I mean outside of the weather issues that you had? Well I think the most variable has actually been the feed and seed side of the equation.
That's been a pretty consistent growth market historically.
But I will tell you that if you're talking to farmers ranchers they'll just tell you it's been very very difficult 18 months to figure out what's going on and that has definitely affected that business.
A good part of our business probably 20% of our portfolio is in cement bags.
And it seems like the construction market is just a stop and start.
It's housing starts look like we're moving and all of a sudden they stop again.
And so it's been sort of a very inconsistent demand.
That has also contributed to our performance issues because our product line mix in that business shifts around materially more than it has in our folding carton business.
So it's a little difficult on the converting side to get a consistent improved performance because your viability around your mix changes materially versus a plant running cereal or pizza or consumer products' side.
And that has been a little bit frustrating.
Traditionally there's been variability.
But really in the last 18 months we've seen a significant increase in the variability of the demand for those end use sectors.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And then just one last one.
I noticed that your NOLs actually went up $126 million from Q3 to Q4.
Can you just talk a little bit about what happened there? Yes I can do that.
When we made the adjustment for black liquor the result of that was to increase the NOL because we had used the NOL back in 2009 when we recorded net of tax.
Your next question will come from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Jumped on the call late here given dueling calls so I apologize if you already answered this question.
On Flexible Dan and Dave are you still ultimately targeting the segment to get to a double-digit EBITDA margin? And could you put some if that's still the case some parameters on when you expect to ultimately get there and what still the biggest challenges are to get to that goal if it's still viable? Well yes it is viable and it is going to be a low double-digit margin business for us for sure but it is not going to happen in second quarter of 2014.
We're going to make significant progress this year because we're going to get a lot more contribution from the mill performance than we got last year.
The converting fix is an ongoing battle for sure but we are making progress.
We made progress in the fourth quarter and we're making progress in the first quarter.
But to get to that number it's going to be an end of the year sort of run rate to get to that kind of thing.
Now it is -- will generate positive cash flow and positive ROIC so it's a contributor but we still have work to do in that space.
Research Division</strong> All right I appreciate the color on that Dave.
Secondly with Macon increasingly coming on could you remind us what it ultimately did for your energy consumption your reduction of nat gas and other purchase fuels? I know -- I remember what the savings benefit is but if you could quantify it in MMBtu? And then kind of the related question given the recent spike in energy I don't know if you commented on this earlier but if you held all of your input costs constant as of today's pricing what kind of commodity inflation would you expect in 2014? So now we're going to do have to do calculus? Let me say this Macon doesn't use a tremendous amount of natural gas.
You know we -- it was a purchased energy mill but that energy was driven in many ways by coal which has switched over to natural gas.
So that $20 million arbitrage is really against the increased pricing and costs that we were seeing blowing through from Georgia Power for purchased energy.
And that -- so that's how you think about it.
In terms of actual MMBtu purchase most all of our MMBtus is purchased in West Monroe Louisiana.
And we're still purchasing the predominant amount of that.
What are we purchasing 4...? 10 million to 12 million MMBtu across the country a year.
So as Dan said on the call we've hedged roughly on average about 50% to 55% of our natural gas usage in 2014 at about $4 guys? At about $4.
The rest of it of course will float at increased energy costs.
So our primary inflationary driver next year will be energy.
I think this year it was as well.
Energy was -- of our $40 million of inflation this year $24 million of it or so was energy.
So that gives you some sort of feel for -- we are more heavily hedged this year at a lower price relative to last year.
But I think we averaged and I wrote this number down somewhere but we averaged in natural gas last year a light $4 about $4 or something like that.
Didn't we Debbie? I'm just -- and so we're going to be -- we averaged about $4 for the year did we not roughly? About $4.09 or something for the year in natural gas.
So clearly we're going to average a little higher than that.
But 50% of it is hedged at that rate.
So I would think energy is going to be another $20 million or something to us this year maybe not quite that high but somewhere in that range.
Yes I think we took a lot of the risks off the table with our hedging program.
We thought the rates were attractive around the $4 range.
And we did that.
So if you look at -- there was a huge increase in that in natural gas between 2012 and 2013.
And it was unusually low in 2012.
I think you remember that George.
And even at $4 what we paid in '13 historically that's a real good rate for natural gas.
I'm probably high on that.
It's probably closer to maybe 12 to 15 incremental is about right if I do that math.
Just like I said we had to do calculus in my head but it's going to be somewhere around that.
Research Division</strong> No that's very helpful.
I appreciate it and all the figures around it.
I guess the last question that I had for you is there a way to perhaps not quantify but qualitatively discuss the whatever increase in interest you're seeing in CUK these days versus last year from markets that were previously not your core beverage packaging markets as a way -- you see where I'm going with it.
Obviously your view is it's growing in interest as a substrate in the packaging market.
There's a way to quantify for us or qualitatively give us discussion in terms of how much more broader appeal you're getting now on that business versus say a year or 2 ago? I think it's easier to think about it in large sectors like this which is as opposed to individual applications.
Yes of course we're seeing it in individual applications.
I love what Tite-Pak does for that business.
And the warehouse clubs is a great win.
But actually you should think more about what we're doing in Europe.
If you think about the acquisitions in Europe guys that gives us an opportunity to integrate substrate that we were -- they were buying in Europe that were not buying from us or they were not SUS but SUS -- all those characteristics and qualities that SUS has that makes it work in the United States makes its work in Europe.
It's just the board was not available and neither was the converting business focused on that board because nobody like Graphic owned those businesses.
So as I look forward in Europe I will tell you over a long period of time we have a plan to double our SUS sales in Europe.
And I don't see any reason in the world why we can do that.
We're building -- the assets that we bought and I know you can't get over there to see these assets but I will tell you that the assets we bought in Europe are world class.
They are as good as any converting plant that we have in the United States and far better than the ones that we were running at legacy Graphic make no mistake about it.
So we've got a good base to be able to build and take advantage of where SUS naturally competes with other substrates.
And that's why I feel optimistic about SUS long term.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question will come from the line of Joe Stivaletti with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just had just one thing.
On the acquisition front I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the priorities as you're thinking about possible acquisitions what areas? And also in light of your 2.5 to 3x leverage target I mean would you -- for the right acquisition would you consider -- how high would you consider taking leverage temporarily to complete an acquisition? Well the first question first and what is our focus.
We're still -- look we still like the converting business.
I get that it's a difficult business.
It can be a messy business from time to time but it allows us to control our own destiny long term by being closer to the customer and driving back that flywheel of cash back through our paperboard mill.
That's our model and that's what we're going to do.
Geographically right now guys I feel much better about investing in the developed countries United States and Western Europe than I do in the emerging businesses.
We've looked at those things.
We've done our work.
We've had -- we've put millions of dollars with Bain to help us understand what we should be doing in China and India.
And the fact of the matter is what we're doing there is very little.
And that's just about the right context right now.
Long term we'll look at the emerging markets but there doesn't -- we can't see a way to make much cash and EBITDA in those spaces so we're going to -- we're not going to focus on those in the short term.
Relative to getting to our targets I mean Dan and I expected to continue to deleverage at a pretty rapid pace.
We expect to get to our 2.5x targets clearly by the end of this year.
How far up would we go? I think we said in the past I don't want to sort of box ourselves in.
What I will tell you we're not going to do is we're not going to get back up in that 5x leverage stuff.
That's just -- that's rarefied air.
We're not comfortable operating in that.
There's no reason that we have to operate in that.
Our stock is also our currency.
So if we want to do something that makes sense we have cash and stock to be able to do the right acquisition.
I'm just not getting back into that rarefied air.
And at this time there are no further questions.
I'll turn the conference back over to management for any concluding remarks.
We're going to get back to work and run the quarter.
Thanks very much.
Talk to you next time.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for joining and you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Michelle and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Graphic Packaging First Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Brad Ankerholz Vice President and Treasurer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Michelle.
And welcome everybody to the Graphic Packaging Holding Company's first quarter 2014 earnings call.
Commenting on results this morning are David Scheible the company's Chairman President and CEO; as well as Dan Blount our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
To help you follow along with today's call we have provided a slide presentation which you can access by clicking on the webcast and presentation link on the Investor section of our website at graphicpkg.com.
I would like to remind everyone that statements of our expectations plans estimates and beliefs regarding future performance and events constitute forward-looking statements.
Such statements are based on currently available information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's present expectations.
Information regarding these risks and uncertainties is contained in the company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements as such statements speak only as of the date on which they are made and the company undertakes no obligation to update such statements.
David I'll turn it over to you now.
Thanks Brad.
Good morning everyone.
Today we reported first quarter adjusted earnings per share of $0.13 compared to $0.10 a year ago.
It was an interesting but somewhat frustrating first quarter.
As we started the year firing on all cylinders demand across both segments in the United States and Europe was solid pricing was positive and building momentum and both our mills and converting facilities were running extremely well.
Just about every key operating metric that we track was trending positively early in the quarter.
Then the extraordinary weather conditions hit the Southeast causing our 2 virgin fiber mills to unexpectedly lose power creating a number of operational issues on the production side of the business and an elevated level of unplanned costs.
I want to be very calculated about how I talk about the weather.
We rarely comment on the impact of weather as it is management's job to improve the business through all types of external fluctuations.
However it was such an extraordinary set of events that had a measurable impact on our first quarter results so we thought we needed to provide some insights for investors.
You just cannot unexpectedly shut down a large chemical process and bring it back online with the flip of a switch.
It's a very complicated time-consuming and expensive process to get a mill safely back to optimal levels after an unplanned outage.
By the time you have to shut down ramp up you lose production tons running efficiencies and of course you experience increased costs.
This is exactly what happened in our West Monroe Louisiana and Macon Georgia virgin board mills in the quarter.
The West Monroe mill went down unexpectedly in early March from a power outage that was related to a severe storm causing a shutdown of our energy supplier substation in Louisiana.
We had no warning before the power went out and it took 2 days before we had full power back at the mill.
When we did finally get back to full power it took several days for us to get the boilers liquor flows and power systems all running at optimal levels.
A similar but less critical scenario played out in the quarter in Macon as well.
Combined we lost over 16 000 tons of SUS production and of course those tons we did produce were at elevated cost levels.
We made a lot less tons and the average cost per ton was higher-than-normalized level.
Dan will go through the details in his section but all in weather negatively impacted Q1 results by almost $15 million when including the unexpected mill outages higher cost to produce tons and significantly higher cost for energy fiber and freight.
Weather also impacted our ability to execute our continuous improvement initiative during the quarter as we redirected our resources on getting the mills back up online and fully functional as quickly as possible.
As a result first quarter performance improvement at $8 million fell well short of our target.
So in addition to the tangible costs there were lost opportunity costs due to Mother Nature as well.
Like I said it was a frustrating quarter.
Good news is that none of this was demand-related.
All the key metrics to our business are still pointed in the right direction.
It was an unpredictable temporary disruption that impacted the business.
But it's behind us now and we see no lingering effects as we head into the second quarter of the remainder of the year.
Our mills are now operating at normalized productivity levels.
Input prices particularly for natural gas and wood have come back in line and demand across many of our markets remained solid.
In addition we see pricing continuing to build as a result of the reset mechanisms built into our contracts.
We cannot get the loss production days back in our mills.
We will accelerate our continuous improvement efforts and we still expect to achieve our performance improvements at the lower end of our $70 million to $90 million target by year end.
There is positive momentum in the business right now and it was really unfortunate we had this temporary disruption in the first quarter.
This event does not deter optimism for the rest of the year.
Dan will go through our updated financial target but we expect to make up half of the weather-related EBITDA impact and are not backing off our cash generation target for the full year.
Looking at our end market we're seeing underlying improvements in some key areas of the business.
Both the big beer and craft beer segment performed well in the first quarter and the overall beer market continues to recover.
Many of you probably saw the Can Manufacturers Institute reported that beer can shipments were up 4% in the first quarter year-over-year reflecting much better take-home demand.
We also saw pickup in frozen pizza and away-from-home sector in the quarter.
Demand in the soft drink sector remains challenged but soft drink packaging continues to be a smaller percentage of our total business as we expand into newer segments and newer geographies for food and beverage packaging.
Underlying demand trends in our European business were also strong in the first quarter for both the beverage and consumer product sectors.
The European integration of Contego Packaging and A&amp;R beverage packaging business has given us a sizable presence and a platform in which to grow and we are gaining share in Europe.
In February we announced our intention to acquire Benson Group a leading food and health care packaging company based in the U.K.
This is a strategic acquisition that complements our existing food and beverage capabilities in Europe and provides an opportunity to further integrate our SUS paperboard.
Benson will broaden our offerings in our core food and beverage markets and will extend the business into store brand market.
The combination of Benson and our existing business is expected to create a $700 million revenue business in Europe.
Our initial synergy targets for Benson are in the $5 million to $7 million range and we certainly expect to achieve the upper end of that number.
We anticipate that acquisition to close sometime late in the second quarter.
We had a pretty good quarter on new product development.
We introduced solutions that responded to consumer needs for convenience with microwave cooking solutions and products in the away home from market -- away-from-home market.
Additionally Graphic leveraged the strength solutions portfolio for strong shelf appeal in a wide range of food categories.
On the strength side Palermo Pizza engaged Graphic to create strength cartons for 2 SKUs of private label pizza for Costco Kirkland brand replacing corrugated with heavy caliber SUS.
This opportunity also opened up several more projects for this fast-growing Midwestern pizza manufacturer and the initial win was extended to include a specialty carton for Screamin' Sicilian Pizzas.
Graphic Packaging produced the club channel cartons for Materne's GoGo squeeZ applesauce.
This fast-growing product needed a more efficient pallet profile which was achieved using Graphic's constructed heavy caliber paperboard and our Z-Flute constructions.
For Perfection Pet which produces Wal-mart's Ol' Roy brand of dog biscuits we created 3 sizes of strength cartons.
In addition on-boarding activities continued for new Z-Flute and Litho-Flute business from Kellogg's in support of their club channel snack offerings.
This represents significant growth and continued momentum for Graphic in our Strength Packaging platform.
Turning to microwave.
We remain the leader in microwave cooking solutions for our customers new and existing products.
First quarter we assisted Tyson Foods with extending their frozen breakfast options with the launch of Day Starts.
A high-protein consumable on-the-go omelet wrap uses our proprietary Quilt Wave solution for even heating and crisp in-cooking results.
Another microwave product commercialized this quarter was a focused insert carton with susceptor for Heinz Smart Ones fish &amp; chips meal.
Finally in the away-from-home sector Starbucks VIA product which was commercialized in Q4 of 2013 gained additional SKUs for production in Q1.
Through VIA black coffee and VIA Refreshers GPI has provided Starbucks the assurance of print quality and consistency across our manufacturing platform that they demand for their high-quality brands.
This assurance has led to additional opportunities at Starbucks including producing an inner carton for Verismo pods that are shipped with Starbucks Verismo brewing machines.
Talking a little bit about the segments.
We remain committed to growing our core food beverage and consumer business.
As a result we are -- we continue to divest non-core assets following on last year's divestiture of our URB Pekin mill.
In our flexible plastics business in Q1 of this year we completed the sale of our Label business which included 2 plants located in Greensboro North Carolina and Norwood Ohio.
Labels was not a key business for us and exiting the business frees up capital and allows for a stronger focus our core vertically-integrated businesses.
Our Flexible Packaging segment which is predominantly now a multi-well bag business remains a work in progress.
However we did make significant progress in improving manufacturing performance and began to recover price during Q1.
We also saw some modest improvement in demand trends in the quarter.
So in total when excluding the divested plastics business flexible EBITDA was better than last year with margins up around 70 basis points.
So positives to build on.
We expected pricing to improve when compared to last year and an increase by almost $19 million in the first quarter.
Right now we feel good about the pricing outlet for the remainder of the year.
Increases in board prices and commodities last year should continue to benefit both our open market board sales and our carton contracts containing price escalators for 2014.
Many of our commodity input prices spiked in the first quarter as a result of the severe weather.
Input inflation was up $13.5 million.
Natural gas wood chemicals and transportation were all higher in the quarter.
And right now we estimate weather-driven inflation cost us about $5 million in the quarter alone.
This weather was -- inflation as you can imagine was predominantly driven by natural gas where a lack of supply created very high spot prices.
We hedged 60% of our expected needs which helped mitigate the impact but the unhedged portion proved to be very expensive.
In addition we incurred significantly higher costs in areas like chemical conversions managing much wetter wood and heating much colder water due to the weather.
The quarter was challenging for cost inflation but we have already seen commodity costs decline on a sequential basis to more expected levels in our full year outlook for inflation that including labors and benefits remains in that $50 million to $60 million range.
In summary there were a lot of positives in the business right now and we're pleased with the way we have managed through some unforeseen outside events in the quarter.
While the quarter was really a bit of a setback it was not in our view structural.
So we expect the business to continue to improve as we go forward in 2014.
The business appears to have normalized in the second quarter and we remain confident in our ability to grow our sales EBITDA and cash flow and hit our debt levels and ratios.
I'm going to now turn the call over to Dan for a more detailed discussion of our financial results and outlook for 2014.
Thanks David.
And good morning everyone.
Today in our discussion this morning I will follow our posted presentation.
Let's first look at Slide 12 where you see we reported adjusted first quarter EBITDA of nearly $158 million.
Adjusted EPS at $0.13 is up $0.03 over last year.
Adjusted net income improved by 24% as interest expense benefited from lower borrowing rates and the effective tax rate on operating earnings declined.
Sales adjusted for the divested businesses grew 1.7% on the strength of improved pricing.
Now as David discussed we seldom talk about weather impacts as we believe that good management teams work through these negative external factors and deliver improved results.
However the weather disruptions we experienced were so significant particularly in our mills that we quantified the financial impact to highlight that except for the weather noise the underlying fundamentals driving business results improved.
Therefore the financial analysis we'll cover in a couple of minutes breaks out the impacts of the weather and business divestitures from our normal category analysis.
Overall we were encouraged with the pricing improvement the stable demand and strong converting plant performance we saw in the first quarter.
Additionally based on the margin improvement we are seeing in the business now that the weather issues are behind us we remain optimistic about financial improvements for Q2 and the remainder of 2014.
In discussing results this morning we will start with sales then move to EBITDA and then on to cash flow.
And we will also update you on expectations for Q2 and the year.
Now please turn to Slide 13 for the sales bridge.
In comparison to last year the largest change is due to the divestiture of non-core businesses.
As you remember over the last year we sold Retail Plastics the Pekin mill and this quarter we sold our Labels business.
These transactions allowed us to free up capital and focus on our core higher-margin Paperboard Packaging business.
The top line impact of these divestitures in Q1 was $45 million.
Now as a side note the Benson Group acquisition that is expected to close in the second quarter is expected to add $50 million of revenue per quarter with much higher margins than the businesses we sold.
Our price at $19 million was a large driver of revenue improvement as the contractual price resets we have regularly talked about delivered as expected.
We remain positive about price for Q2 and the remainder of the year.
We did experience a modest volume decline which I attribute more to weather as our open market sales of paperboard roll stock show the largest declines.
Plus we have seen these sales bounce back in April.
Overall our carton demand was solid.
Now moving to our Q1 EBITDA bridge on Slide 14.
You clearly see the impacts from the divestitures and the weather disruption.
In terms of the fundamentals the underlying business improved nearly 10% on the strength of better pricing.
Performance as mentioned earlier at $8 million was lower than anticipated as weather disruptions impacted production output and we temporarily reassigned resources normally dedicated to our cost reduction initiatives.
We expect performance will accelerate in Q2 and through the balance of the year as we ramp up our cost reduction initiatives and integration efforts.
For the full year we still expect to achieve the previously communicated $70 million to $90 million performance targets albeit towards the lower end of the range.
The bridge clearly shows the direct weather-related impact at $14.5 million.
The loss relates to -- or losses related to weather includes as David mentioned the unexpected mill outages resulting in lost production higher cost to produce tons and temporary cost increases for energy fiber and freight.
As we moved into April we saw few remaining residual effects from the weather disruptions.
And as a result margins are reflecting the improvements in underlying business fundamentals.
In summary looking at our Q1 EBITDA results we are pleased with the fundamentals we are seeing.
Pricing is improving inflation is relatively modest and we expect to achieve our cost reduction targets.
With the weather issues behind us we expect strong Q2 sequential EBITDA improvement in the neighborhood of $25 million to $30 million over Q1.
About 1/2 of the improvement comes from the weather recovery and the remainder from better pricing and performance.
Now moving to Slide 15 you'll find our cash flow debt and liquidity summary.
The seasonality of our business typically results in a use of cash during the first quarter as we build working capital to service higher demand in Q2 and Q3.
We experienced this trend again in Q1 and we used $45 million of cash.
Now deducting the $70 million net cash proceeds from the sale of our Labels business we see a result in net debt reduction of $25 million this quarter.
Our full year view on free cash flow generated from operations remains unchanged at $350 million as the weather-related losses will be offset primarily by working capital reductions.
Please note that this figure does not include the proceeds from the label sale nor the Benson acquisition cost of around $165 million.
Net of this M&amp;A activity net debt reduction for 2014 is expected to approximate $250 million.
Now looking at our Q1 CapEx spend you will notice at $59 million it is higher than the $33 million spent last year.
This is because in the quarter we increased spending to finish up the remaining European integration investments and to bring to completion several mill cost reduction and performance projects.
The benefits of these investments are strong contributors to our $70 million to $90 million performance improvement target.
While the timing of our CapEx spending will be skewed more toward the beginning of the year than last year we expect annual spending to decline.
Our guidance range for 2014 CapEx continues to be $185 million to $205 million which compares to $210 million in 2013.
Now at the end of the quarter our net leverage ratio was 3.27x essentially flat to year end.
Given our cash flow outlook we expect to be within our 2.5x to 3x leverage target range as we leave 2014.
Overall looking at our entire debt portfolio we have an average effective borrowing rate of 3.4% and strong liquidity of over $700 million.
Turning to interest.
You'll notice that the refinancing work we did last year to lower our borrowing cost is paying off as interest expense was nearly $7 million lower for the quarter.
In terms of major shareholder ownership in February 3 shareholders sold 30 million shares in a secondary offering.
After this transaction Clayton Dubilier &amp; Rice and Old Town no longer own any shares of Graphic Packaging.
This is the seventh such offering over the last 10 quarters.
Public float of our shares has now increased to 87%.
Now before turning to the outlook a comment about our Q1 tax rate.
You'll notice the rate at nearly 42% was above the range of 37% to 39% that we guided to on our last call.
As part of the sale of our Labels business we wrote off $21 million of goodwill which was nondeductible for tax purposes.
For reporting purposes this impact will be spread throughout the year and will add approximately 2.5 percentage points to our full year effective tax rate.
Our revised tax guidance for the effective tax rate is now in the 39% to 41% range.
Now as a reminder we continue to not pay U.S.
cash income taxes and we continue to utilize the NOL and we will continue to do that for some time.
Now turning to the last slide.
You see our outlook for 2014.
The details are unchanged from last quarter with the exception of the tax rate which we just discussed and the interest expense which we revised slightly downward.
If you have any questions about guidance we will address during Q&amp;A.
And with those comments I will turn the call back over to the operator.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from George Staphos from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question I had housekeeping.
Do you happen to have depreciation and amortization by segment? And can we assume that the nearly $8 million of charges hit the Paperboard segment in the quarter just as we reconciled the segment EBITDA to your adjusted EBITDA? We're thinking.
We're thinking.
We're getting your answer George.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
We can come back to that.
Can you comment on where backlogs are for CRB and SUS at this juncture? I'm assuming they'd be relatively healthy as demand has picked up going into the second quarter.
Yes we had pretty good demand in the first quarter George and we sold down some of our paperboard inventory for sure.
And our backlogs are strong and our inventory position is good going in.
The business is doing well.
Soft drink those are well chronicled.
That's an issue for us.
Europe backlogs are very very busy right now.
I just -- we talked to Joe Yost who runs that business for us and they're very active in all their plants in Europe.
So as I sit right now I feel pretty good about the quarter from a demand standpoint.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Factually though you don't have the backlogs at hand would that be fair? We don't actually -- we're so integrated that backlog doesn't really -- it's not the same as open market sales.
So we don't really don't talk about backlogs because most of them are from our own plants right? Research Division</strong> Okay.
I remember last year's [ph] quarter was like 3 to 4 weeks but maybe I'm...
Well it's probably -- it's no different than that right now.
It's unchanged here.
It's 3 -- we keep it -- it's generally about 3 to 4 weeks.
It didn't get much out of that range and that's probably about where we are right now.
I was just -- just looked at the -- I look at it in terms of how much inventory I have in paperboard and I look at that and I know that I'm in that 3 to 4 weeks by how much CRB and SUS.
And I see that every day and right now based on those numbers 3 or 4 weeks feels about right.
Research Division</strong> Okay I appreciate that Dave.
Next -- and I'll turn it over after this.
Pricing you got a very nice impact in the first quarter.
Obviously momentum is building at least from what your comments were.
I don't remember maybe I missed it whether you're a firm $30 million to $40 million from previous guidance.
And is there anything formulaically that you know will benefit '15? Or is that too early to even comment to? Well let's start with where we are and we -- we're going to keep in that $30 million to $40 million but we're going to be at the upper end of that $40 million range for sure.
You'll remember that in the fourth quarter we got more pricing than we expected.
We had $10 million worth of pricing in the fourth quarter.
So when we start to lap that we -- what you can't do is take $20 million and multiply it by 4.
That doesn't work.
But certainly at the upper end of that $40 million feels pretty good.
'15 will be -- there will be some overlap in '15 for sure.
Some of that will depend upon -- as pricing for paperboard and costs flow through in 2014 and a lot of our board and carton contracts are costs.
So as I look at inflation of $30 million or so in input costs some of that is going to naturally roll into pricing in 2015.
So generally speaking unless there's a deflationary impact which is what we had I think in 2011 you're not -- you're going to see every year some level of pricing go up just by virtue of the way the contracts work.
We do have the answers to your detailed questions George.
In terms of depreciation it was about $67 million for the quarter -- the first quarter.
About $60 million of that is in our Paperboard Packaging.
The rest of it is in our bags multi-well bags.
And in terms of the add-backs all of that is predominantly in the Paperboard Packaging segment.
Your next question comes from Phil Ng from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> The $15 million headwind that you guys flagged for weather can you talk about how much of that rolls off and how we should be thinking about that going forward? Well we took -- I think Debbie and Dan really took all of that in the first quarter.
So that cost we rolled it through.
We will -- don't have any overhang in the second quarter heading in.
It was predominantly I -- the way to think about it is predominantly variable cost.
A good portion of it was natural gas in wood that we pay and then the freight.
In some cases we -- I think I told you guys we had demand.
So in some cases we were moving -- when Macon was up West Monroe was down we were still filling demand but we were moving it around in the quarter inefficiently to make sure that our carton plants ran.
That freight we're never going to get back but it's also not going to repeat.
So that $15 million is a first quarter a one-off deal that we are not projecting to carry forward in the rest of the year which is why Dan said he thinks here's a $25 million hop up in Q2 because $15 million of it's just not repeating the impacts we had in the paperboard mills.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then the $5 million inflation headwind you guys called out would be big -- embedded in that $15 million number is that correct? It is.
Yes it is.
It is the incremental of what we would normally would -- we were hedged but we were paying -- Dan you may know [ph] but I think at some point during the quarter at Macon we were paying $10 or something like that for the incremental natural gas.
It did get up that high yes.
And that's expensive.
And the problem you get into not that you care that much about how a paperboard mill runs but you've got to remember when the wood gets wetter or the water that we pull out is colder it still has to be heated to the same temperature for the paperboard mill to run.
So we use a lot more MMBtu's in that kind of cold than we normally would certainly than we saw in 2013.
Because remember first quarter 2013 was actually a pretty moderate quarter.
So it was just an unfortunate thing.
And I think for the most part disappointing because we really had some pretty good momentum in the business and it just got trashed by virtue of the process.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
So if we strip out that going forward I mean you guys guided down performance improvements.
It sounds like a big part of that is weather.
If we look at the 2Q 3Q 4Q run rate is that generally tracking in line with what you guys were expecting before? I think we're -- as Dan said we expect the performance to end up at around $70 million the pricing in that $40 million range for sure.
And that's why we're sort of reaffirming our cash targets.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then from a demand perspective this is probably one of the more upbeat quarters.
I remember you guys giving color on that front.
Is that a function of just demand getting better in North America? Or is it more Europe related? Or is it just new products you winning -- picking up market share? Can you kind of help us understand what the drivers are? Well I think you hit them all.
Maybe you should do the call next time for us.
Basically that's it.
We had strong demand in Europe.
And lapping European performance in legacy graphics is not that difficult.
We didn't have a great business over there and now we do.
So that's a great comparison.
But we did see strength in beer.
We saw strength in frozen pizza even cereal was better.
So we started to see in some of those core markets better overall demand.
And even the multi-well bag business we started to finally see some -- both strength in volume and in pricing which is -- I'm certainly more encouraged about that business than I have been in a while as well.
We're early in the quarter but we're okay with where we are.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And just one last one question.
I know you're going to get this at some point.
Pricing at least looks really strong in Q1 and I could appreciate Q4 tapering off a bit because you got some last year.
But if I remember correctly Dan was talking about 3Q being kind of your peak run rate quarter.
So this seems like you're even at that $40 million upper end your pricing guidance seems a bit conservative.
Well the -- as you well know the way pricing works for us is mix.
And so in the quarter it changes.
So we got more pricing in some sectors than we do in others.
So we kind of have to look through a prism to figure out what it's going to look like.
And so like I said I'm already guiding to the upper end of the $40 million.
Could it be better? Sure but it's certainly not $80 million.
You can't multiply it times 4.
That does not work.
But yes I think pricing is going to continue to be a positive for us in the quarter.
And I think as George mentioned we'll continue to see that trend right on into 2015 because of the way the contracts are structured.
But it takes us a long time to get it back.
I mean this pricing is good but a lot of -- other people in the space who have open market they were getting these increases last year and we're just now getting them in '14.
Your next question comes from Alex Ovshey from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is Usha Guntupalli on behalf of Alex.
So just on the forward demand are you hearing anything from your customers on forward demand outlook anything on food cost inflation impacting volumes going ahead? Well that is something that they talk about.
But you've got to remember the stuff that we package is still cereal and rice macaroni &amp; cheese.
We're still at the lower end of that socioeconomic -- what you're seeing on the rising food costs tend to be more of the fresh stuff and more of the expensive stuff is having a higher proportion of the inflation.
And so they'll have to figure out how that works out in their business.
They're certainly worried about that but right now it's not manifesting itself in our volume trends.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
And just a follow-up on the Europe cotton demand comments being very strong in the first quarter do you expect this to be sustained? What gives you the confidence that things are finally turning around there? Well you've got to remember that unlike the first quarter here in the weather they had a great -- all the warm weather that was supposed to be in Atlanta moved to the U.K.
And so that helped materially.
If you remember our business in Europe is heavily weighted towards beverage and now moving towards consumer foods.
And the weather really supported that kind of demand.
So we don't see a drop off right now.
Our backlogs in our carton business on a go-forward basis look very very good.
Now we're a much smaller player in a share standpoint in Europe than we are in the United States.
But we're busy.
All of our carton plants are busy and we're shipping paperboard over there on a regular basis.
So I feel pretty good about European demand right now.
March was good and April is strong.
Research Division</strong> One last one.
Could you remind us how much leased food you buy annually and how much year-on-year cost increase are you factoring into your inflation estimates? In the first quarter I had I think -- in the first quarter I think we had about $3 million worth of external purchase board or something like that in our inflation numbers.
I'll have to look that up.
It's pretty close.
And we buy somewhere between 175 000 and 200 000 tons of SBS globally.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So basically you do have some increases but then from announced price hikes right? Of course.
Yes absolutely.
Yes they're in our inflation numbers on a go-forward basis.
I think I said we expect our inflation to be around $60 million for the year including labor and benefits.
The drivers will be energy.
I think wood will pretty much flatten and outside paperboard purchases will be $3 million to $5 million of that.
Research Division</strong> So are you factoring in the entire announced price hike? Or whatever has been realized so far in April just for [indiscernible]? Yes I'm not going to talk about exactly what prices we purchased are external board.
I -- you didn't miss the part where I said we bought 200 000 tons right? So yes exactly.
So I mean the increases are going through.
We're certainly paying more but what Graphic pays independently is for Graphic to know.
Your next question comes from Ghansham Panjabi from Baird.
Research Division</strong> Can you first off remind us how you're sourcing paperboard raw material in Europe? You're obviously expanding in the region with Benson.
Longer term how do you see your global paperboard production footprint evolving? Look you can't make SUS any cheaper than you can make it in the southeastern United States.
It's just not possible.
With the pine forests there that grow fast energy is reasonable and getting chemicals into those facilities are great.
We have great ports in Savannah and in New Orleans.
So we're going to continue to expand our export tons.
We're -- we export over 100 000 tons of SUS to ourselves in Europe.
I'm going to be really disappointed in the next 3 or 4 years if we don't double that demand.
We buy locally over there CRB-type products or SBS-type products.
We call it folding box board in Europe.
And we buy CRB from a whole bunch of folks.
We're not going to be exporting CRB.
That makes absolutely no sense.
We don't have the capacity anyway to sell.
And we buy CRB.
So it makes no sense for us to export it.
But we will continue through our own operations to export SUS.
On the other hand we are not an open market seller of SUS to any real numbers at all in Europe.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then in terms of the weather impact on like -- you kind of going back to that.
If I missed this I'm sorry.
But did you split our the various buckets mill downtime higher utility costs etc.
to get to that $15 million? No.
What we did is we aggregated the buckets and we told you how it added up to the $15 million.
We did say the $5 million of it was inflation the rest of it is just -- well there's just all sorts of stuff in there.
If you do it the list is so long that it doesn't become as meaningful as grouping it into broad categories.
Plus we're trying to [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just one final one on foreign exchange Dan maybe this one is for you.
Positive on sales and then negative on EBITDA can you just kind of take us through that dynamic? I think it's really the mix of where it comes from.
I mean we'd have to look into it further.
It's not a big number for us.
But I'm sure it's a mix in terms of which countries are involved.
I'm sure it's the yen.
Yes.
Because we have a pretty big business in Japan.
So I'm sure it's the Japan that -- I mean trying to figure out what the yen is going to do has become increasingly difficult.
Operator are there any other questions? Your next question comes from Debbie Jones from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can you maybe just talk a little bit more about the Flexible Packaging business and what the strategy is now maybe over a 2- to 3-year timeframe? Now that you've divested part of this business I'm just wondering if you see opportunities to grow in this business or if the focus now is more on cost reductions and business optimization? Well in the short term it really is trying to make it operate effectively.
We've got a business there that can generate double-digit margins if we just operate it more effectively.
So we've gotten rid of the noise in that system.
We've moved a lot of really good people into that business from our core business.
So the folks running it at the plant level at the senior level within the mill are folks that have been successful in our carton business and you're starting to see it.
What you're seeing is pricing and demand improving in that business and the converting plants ran really really really well.
The Pine Bluff Arkansas mill had some weather-related issues.
We didn't detail all that stuff up but they also had a couple of million dollars tied into weather-related stuff in the quarter.
So I'm more optimistic around that business.
I'm not going to say we don't have work to do in it but we expect the EBITDA to grow materially in 2014 based on our internal plans.
And that's without a lot of market movement.
So if the market continues to improve like it has been then that will be a much better business for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my next question is on domestic beverage business in terms of demand impacting format trends what are you guys seeing and how might that affect your business? What are your customer’s kind of telling you about promotional activity over the next few quarters? I guess I'm just trying to get some expectation for the balance of the year in that business that you're exposed to.
Well what I would say is that the beer business continues to be good both craft and imports.
And I mean craft not just what a small craft beer would do but also the craft beers that are being made by Anheuser-Busch MillerCoors.
They have a lot of those what we consider craft.
They're all doing really really well.
You probably read some of these flavor trends in fruity beers that are having a great impact on female segment of the market and that's why beer is up.
I'm unconcerned really about the trends in beer.
Look I have the same concerns in soft drink than anybody does.
Particularly the diet side of the equation is difficult and there is certainly an increased promotional activity.
There's no -- Coke did significant promotional activity over the Easter holiday.
We saw that in our sales.
We saw April sales for Coke and Diet Coke and those do really really really well.
So we'll see.
But our forecast isn't to see -- our forecast is details -- I'm sorry correlates with what our customers see in that business which is declining soft drink demand in the U.S.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Anthony Pettinari from Citigroup.
It's actually William Mitchell filling in for Anthony.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about what capabilities Benson gives you? And then I guess more broadly how you were thinking about managing and growing the European business now that you have a footprint of about $700 million in sales? Yes well the -- our current -- well Benson is interesting for us because in Europe as you well know the private label business in food service business is a much bigger component than it is here.
Still in our country private label is still a much smaller portion.
But in Europe it's almost 50% and in the U.K.
even a little higher.
So we didn't have a real good access to that market so we had a couple of different options.
One we could build our own plants and sort of force our way in or we could buy the guy that's doing the best job and that's exactly what we did.
So Benson gives us a great avenue to be -- take our product lines and our technology into that space.
Relative to how we're managing it we have -- they have a great management team over there and we're going to -- that we're going to leverage those guys.
Mark knows the business in the U.K.
and we're going to expand that.
The guy that's running Europe for us is Joe Yost.
He was a head of our supply chain here.
He worked in our CPD organizations for over a decade.
He knows cartons he knows mills and he knows sourcing.
And right now he and his team are heading that up.
So we have expat at the very top and the rest of the resources over there are local European resources that know their business.
So we are managing it separately in Europe.
We're augmenting it with resources here in terms of purchasing or supply chain and continuous improvement.
We just installed a new table in our Snake [ph] facility that were analogous to what we've done in our web facilities in the United States.
So we're taking technology and translating it over there.
We're letting them install it upgrade it and work for their markets.
So that's our long-term strategic plan for Europe.
Your next question comes from George Staphos from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering Dave if you could give us some color on what the private label market is growing at roughly versus your broader folding carton market in Europe.
In Europe? The private label business in Europe it depends upon whether you're in the continent or in the U.K.
But it's probably growing 6% a year over there.
Here in this country it's growing too.
It's growing faster than normal food chain but still off a pretty small base.
Research Division</strong> Do you expect the European folding carton market should grow more or less in line with the U.S.
market? So in total both private label? Or is Europe growing a little bit more quickly or slowly than in U.S.? I think they seem -- they're both developed countries right? I think for the most part their growth rates are going to be -- we have a little bit better demographics longer term in the United States because our immigration policies allow for more growth in terms of population than Europe.
But in some ways it's -- that's averaging of a small number.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
If you had to go back to your expectations for the macro environment or the demand environment in Europe as you were finishing up the work and closing on Contego and A&amp;R and relative to where it is right now has the Continental Europe has the U.K.
picture been better ultimately than you would have expected? Or is it more or less in line with your expectations? I'm just trying to get a feel for how things have developed for you from that point.
I would say Dan and I and Mike Doss would say that the European demand is a little better than we expected when we put our projections together that it's held together they had a good weather forecast in the first quarter which who the heck can look at that? And honestly the assets that we purchased were really really good.
And we've been able to leverage those faster than we expected.
So right now as we sit here we would say local customers and support from North American customers who we now can support in Europe that we could not before has been -- has led to a positive outcome.
Look we knew that we were [indiscernible] some place in Europe.
But Dan and I did not have the money.
I mean we were 6.8x levered.
We couldn't be investing in Europe.
So when we got to a place we could we bought the assets that made sense including the management teams.
And so we feel better about what our prospects are in Europe.
And we continue to want to add on to that business for the right targets.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
One last question.
I'll turn it over and come back to queue.
Totally switching gears.
Can you quantify or at least give some color on the impact that Tite-Pak's having on the glass market and I guess particularly within beer? Yes we -- Tite-Pak has been great but I can't give those numbers out because I'd have to give customer stuff and that's not allowed.
So I what I would simply say is that we're very happy with the scale up in Tite-Pak and it is definitely accelerating.
It's a great product.
You reduce glass breakage which is expensive and difficult for our customers to deal with you're going to sell the product.
You'll see more of it this quarter.
Each quarter this year you'll see more and more Tite-Pak in the stores.
That's what I will tell you.
Your next question comes from Joshua Zaret from Longbow Research.
One thing I didn't hear on the discussion on Pine Bluff was where the integration level is at the mill.
So can you remind us what it was last year and then tell us what it was in the first quarter and what you expect for this year? It's about 60% integration in -- and it's not materially changed quarter-on-quarter.
I don't think it's changed materially.
So it's about 60% integrated to our sales.
And then what was it last year? About the same.
It hadn't really change much.
Okay.
And you expect it about the same this year? Yes we did.
I mean the year before it was flat -- year before it was 30% or 40%.
So the big change was last year.
Right.
And is that where you want to be at 60% is that your target or are you going to take that higher? No.
I think that's probably about where we are.
It's a good paper market to sell into so we'll continue to sell kraft paper.
Okay.
And as long as I'm on the subject you probably saw that which I didn't like the speculation that pulp and paper had on Pine Bluff in this week's edition.
One they said that you were reportedly buying a significant amount of kraft paper on the open market.
Two that you were still having a -- you were rumored to be having operational problems.
And three that you could be producing another grade on a swing basis.
Is that all wrong? Well we're going to start with I don't -- this whole industry works really well as innuendos half-truths and rumors but it's never been my policy to augment it.
So I'm just going to say we're comfortable with what we're doing in Pine Bluff.
And what somebody else says about what we're doing is interesting but not commentary worthy.
But the question is from your point of view are any of those correct? No we're -- we had some weather in Pine Bluff and we buy tons all the time on the outside for that depending upon -- I won't say we swap tons but we used a freight arbitrage to buy from some suppliers so that -- because what happens is the further away you get from the mill you eat up your profitability in freight.
So we do that from time to time.
And with the weather impact that accelerated it but it's certainly not a strategic question for us.
Okay great.
No I thought it was very speculative the way they put that in there but I had to check it.
Your next question comes again from George Staphos from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
George you get no questions in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Well I had to catch up from the last quarter conference call.
I promise it's the last one.
Maybe segueing on Josh's line of discussion.
With flexibles overall can you give us a hoped for timing for when you do ultimately get to double-digit EBITDA margins in the segment? Yes.
I would say we -- based on our forwards we should be at that run rate by the end of the year.
But we won't see that in the second quarter.
But by the end of the year we should be there.
Research Division</strong> And looking -- recognizing that you want to earn a return on the investments that you've made in Pine Bluff and broadly in the business and you've done culling of the portfolio there how -- that has yet to again show up in returns that you hopefully want to get -- will get paid for should we -- how should we think about flexible as being a really strategically core business to Graphic Packaging overall and it's obviously much larger Paperboard Packaging business? Yes I mean at this point in time what I would tell you is that we still -- it generates good cash.
And the fact of the matter is Graphic needs cash to get its debt structure correct.
So right now that makes it very very core strategic.
Do I feel long term I have to be making multi-wall sacks? Not necessarily.
But at this point in time it makes perfectly good sense for our portfolio.
And quite frankly we need to fix it.
We need to get it to a place where we -- that is a generating contributor to the overall business and we've got some work to get that done.
And that's really what our focus has to be right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last one.
Obviously you said Tite-Pak is doing well in the market.
But you're -- to some degree glass is swimming upstream in the beer market at least given some of the share data that we've been looking at both obviously in terms of CMI data and some of the point-of-sale data.
So if that trend continues where cans are continuing to gain market share versus glass -- that's an assumption I recognize.
Do you think Tite-Pak will be as successful as you hope it to be realizing that's a very subjective question? And for that matter do you think glass may actually be able to regain market share versus cans in the next couple of years? Yes what I would say is we're heavily -- more heavily leveraged towards cans than we are at bottles anyway across our beer business.
So go get them cans.
But what I will tell you is that if you're doing a bottle pack there's 2 ways you're doing it.
One is in 6-pack carriers which we are by far and away the largest manufacturer of that.
And if you're making a 12-pack bottle pack you might as well make it with one that reduces your cost.
So whatever bottle packs are going to be sold it makes -- it doesn't seem to make a lot of sense not to use a Tite-Pak which saves you costs in your process.
So that's kind of where I think we are.
But we saw a higher level of cans in take home and that's fine by us because we're more higher leveraged to cans in our business as well.
I have no further questions in queue.
I'll turn the call back over to the presenters for closing remarks.
Okay guys.
Well you know what we're going to get back to work and -- on the second quarter.
We'll talk to you all in July.
Take care.
Thank you everyone.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Johnna and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Graphic Packaging Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Brad Ankerholz Vice President and Treasurer you may begin your conference.
Thanks Johnna and welcome everybody to the Graphic Packaging Holding Company's Q2 2014 Earnings Call.
Commenting on results this morning are David Scheible the company's Chairman President and CEO; Mike Doss our Chief Operating Officer; and Dan Blount our Chief Financial Officer.
To help you along with today's call we've provided a slide presentation which can be accessed by clicking the Webcasts and Presentations link on the Investors section of our website which is graphicpkg.com I would like to remind everyone that statements of our expectations plans estimates and beliefs regarding future performance and events constitute future-looking statements.
Such statements are based on currently available information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's present expectations.
Information regarding these risks and uncertainties is contained in the company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements as such statements speak only as of the date on which they are made and the company undertakes no obligation to update such statements.
David I'll turn it over to you now.
Thanks Brad.
Good morning everyone.
We had a busy and important quarter for Graphic Packaging.
We reported second quarter adjusted earnings per share of $0.20 compared to $0.13 a year ago same quarter.
Second quarter adjusted EBITDA improved to $191 million from $175 million last year.
The underlying trends in the business improved over quarter 1 as did our performance.
We explained on the first quarter call that we did expect the business to normalize in the second quarter after the weather-related disruptions we experienced in February and March.
Specifically we expected to make up around half of the weather-related EBITDA impact over the rest of the year and I'm happy to report we are on target to do so.
We made great progress operationally and strategically as the business performed in line with our expectations globally and we remain on track to generate $350 million of net debt reduction from operating activities in 2014.
As I said in this morning's press release our first priority is running the business but we also took several major strategic steps during the quarter to position Graphic Packaging as a global leader in the packaging space long term.
Let me highlight a few noteworthy accomplishments.
First we finalized the UK-based Benson Group acquisition greatly enhancing our folding carton business in Europe enabling Graphic to enter the sizable European store brand market.
The acquisition broadens our customer base and it enables us to offer our current customers a wider range of new products and services.
Our European business performed well in terms of sales and EBITDA and we are on track with our synergies as we head into second half.
I'm very pleased with our progress in Europe at this time.
Second we concluded the sale of our multi-wall bag business to Mondi which represents the last major step in a series of business divestitures over the last 9 months to truly transform Graphic into a pure play vertically integrated Paperboard Packaging business.
Third this May we completed a secondary offering of nearly 44 million shares of common stock which was the seventh such offering in the last 1.5 years.
These secondary offerings have increased Graphic Packaging's average daily trading volume from less than 1 million shares to over 4 million shares daily.
Two of the secondary transactions were coupled with targeted share repurchases totaling $500 million at an average price of $6.84.
These buybacks were accretive to earnings and we believe a smart use of our cash to return value to shareholders.
Finally prior to these transactions our 4 largest shareholders owned 65% of our shares.
Following the May offering these shareholders no longer hold shares of the company.
The last event during the quarter was a well-attended Investor Day in New York City in Boston with a group of over 75 analysts and investors and conducted 2 days of institutional meetings that went well.
Like I said it was a busy quarter but let's shift to the business environment.
Second quarter sales were up approximately 3% after adjusting for the impact of the divested businesses while volumes in our Paperboard Packaging segments were basically flat to last year.
We knew the production and shipments would bounce back from the weather-impacted first quarter but I will tell you high unemployment coupled with higher food -- costs for food and fuel are still depressing consumer discretionary spending.
As a result we continue to see some soft demand in key area markets like cereal dry foods and pizza.
In fact ACNielsen reports that North American cereal volume declined almost 4% and dry foods were down 1% when compared to the same period last year.
There was however good news on the beverage side as ACNielsen reported North American industry beer volumes increased 2% versus the prior year primarily driven by the craft segment while big beer was relatively flat.
Soft drink industry volumes declined by about 2% as the big soft drink makers refocused resources to push their core brands.
In global beverage particularly in Europe Brazil and China we are beginning to see a substitution trend away from plastic shrink and into paperboard in the beer sector.
We've already begun to see benefits of this trend and we are optimistic that this move towards packaging premiumization will continue to benefit our business in the long term.
Our machine backlog is the highest it has been in 5 years supporting these global trends in beer.
As expected pricing improvements peaked this quarter at about $24 million.
We expect pricing to be up between $40 million and $45 million for the full year when we exclude the positive price contributions that were anticipated in the divested multi-wall bag business.
Including labor and benefits total cost inflation was $24 million in the quarter.
Input costs alone were up about $13 million driven by higher cost for energy externally purchased board wood and this quarter to a lesser extent freight.
We expect inflation to moderate in the second half of this year as both energy and fiber costs have stabilized.
Benefits from improved performance accelerated to $22 million in the quarter as we were able to refocus our resources and cost reduction initiatives after the first quarter weather-driven downtime at the mills.
For the full year we're on track to deliver approximately $60 million in performance improvements.
We adjusted our performance target down by $10 million to reflect the impact of the divestitures.
Summarizing the second quarter we rebounded well from the February-March weather challenges with strong performance across the global business.
Strategically we made 2 very important moves in the second quarter.
We closed the U.K.
Benson acquisition and we sold our U.S.-based multi-wall bag business.
These 2 moves further solidify us as a leading vertically integrated player in the global Paperboard Packaging business.
We'll now focus on rightsizing our resources and optimizing our new footprint.
There's still a lot of work to be done but we're excited about the positioning of the business and our ability to continue gaining share in the global market for paperboard.
Mike Doss our Chief Operating Officer is going to talk more now about what the business looks like going forward and how we are going to continue to grow.
Many of you met Mike at our Investor Day in New York and Mike will be participating in our earnings calls and investor meetings on a go-forward basis.
Michael? Thank you David and good morning everyone.
It's a pleasure to be joining the earnings calls and I look forward to interacting with the investment community on a more regular basis.
Graphic Packaging is committed to being the leader in the global Paperboard Packaging business in the food and beverage sectors.
We spent the last 5 years both building and optimizing our core business around this focus.
We've divested noncore assets and businesses to free up capital reinvested in our core business and substantially reduced debt.
We streamlined and significantly increased productivity in our low-cost mills.
We've optimized our network of converting facilities around both our mills and our marquee customers.
We've implemented LEAN and Six Sigma resources to shorten our supply chain and improved efficiencies across the organization.
In short we've built a very unique business model that vertically integrates some of the lowest-cost mills with a network of highly efficient converting facilities.
And as we first mentioned during our June 3 Investor Day in New York our mill system contains 150 000 to 200 000 tons of low cost unutilized pulp capacity that further provides us with tremendous operating leverage as we continue to grow.
With the model built we're focused on growing our converting volumes.
We do this in a number of ways: new product development channel expansion product substitution geographic expansion and targeted acquisitions.
Over the past few years we significantly expanded our penetration in the growing craft beer and pasta markets focused our new product development efforts on corrugated substitution utilizing our SUS paperboard and made 3 major strategic acquisitions in Europe to further expand our geographic presence in food and beverage markets.
Graphic's new product development strategy remains consistent: focus on convenient solutions for busy consumers create shelf impact for customer products at the retail level to win consumer attention and selection and lower overall costs for the customer.
There were several new products introduced around convenience in the quarter.
Our newest technology launch was the next gen IntegraPack [ph] for Shake Shack's fresh fry -- fresh-cut French fries.
This is our latest hybrid solution combining Flexible Packaging with Graphic Packaging's paperboard for a more convenient on-the-go eating solution.
On the microwave front we've launched products in the U.S.
Mexico and Europe which utilize our proprietary sector [ph] technologies to provide consumers with convenience and quality cooking results and reduced cooking times.
As David mentioned we are seeing some global beer customers shift away from shrink wrap towards folding cartons given the enhanced graphics and branding of the products on the shelf.
As a result our machine business is the busiest it has been in a decade.
This ability to build and enhance brands with our packaging has also led to additional product launches in areas like the growing premium craft beer segment with the brands like Bell's Firestone Walker and Sixpoint.
Graphic has also optimized several snack and cereal cartons to enhance strength performance in the demanding club channel including Z-Flute for club cereal and Litho-Flute cartons for snacks including Famous Amos Keebler M&amp;M cookies and Pop-Tarts.
These new cartons leveraged our strength portfolio and expertise to provide great product protection while minimizing material usage.
In addition to new product development in substrate substitution we have grown converting demand through acquisitions.
The closing of the Benson Group acquisition in May and the integration of this business gives us a $700 million plus business in Europe and a platform from which we -- to continue growing and gaining market share.
Our converting strategy in Europe is the same as it is here in the U.S.: operate a vertically integrated model that combines our low-cost U.S.
produced SUS paperboard with a network of highly efficient converting assets to gain market share and expand in adjacent segments and geographies.
The initial synergies from the acquisition of Contego and A&amp;R were estimated to be around $16 million to $18 million in 2014 and we are on track to deliver this.
We expect to deliver another $5 million to $7 million in synergies from the Benson Group acquisition which will be realized in 2015.
However we believe the global benefits between the U.S.
and European businesses to be substantially more as we are building a global team of operators and new product developers that are sharing ideas and best practices.
Geographic expansion also allows us to expand and enhance our relationship with our multinational customers which we have traditionally only served domestically.
It's an exciting time for Graphic Packaging.
We are now a pure play vertically integrated global Paperboard Packaging business.
As is always our practice over the course of the next year we will look to right-size our global infrastructure and optimize our asset base around this new footprint.
Now to take you through the financial ins and outs of the quarter and to help you model the business going forward I'll turn the call over to Dan Blount.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
To aid in our discussion this morning I'll follow our posted presentation.
Let's start on Slide 12.
We reported adjusted second quarter EBITDA of nearly $191 million.
Adjusted earnings per share was $0.20 up $0.07 over last year and adjusted net income improved by 50%.
As you can see Q2 adjusted net income rose to $66 million from $44 million last year.
Improved operating results and lower interest expense drove the earnings increase.
In the quarter EBITDA margins climbed to 17% and interest expense driven by lower debt levels and lower borrowing rates declined by $8 million.
Primarily due to the divestiture of multi-wall bag the Q2 P&amp;L includes numerous nonrecurring charges related to the sale.
To aid in analysis of the quarter we adjusted for these charges in order to provide comparable year-over-year reporting of earnings that resulted from operations.
In aggregate the charge for the multi-wall bag sale and other M&amp;A activity totals $106 million net of tax.
The charge consists of 3 major components.
First the successful sale of the multi-wall bag business resulted in a $165 million pretax loss.
The majority of this loss results from the write-off of intangible assets and goodwill that was established in 2008 when the business was acquired as part of the larger activity acquisition; second $6 million primarily related to fees incurred in the acquisition of Benson; and finally a $65 million tax benefit offsets the loss.
This loss increases the size of the NOL which is expected to be monetized within the next 3 years.
We will review the status of the NOL a little later.
As you heard from Mike post the multi-wall bag sale Graphic Packaging becomes a pure play Paperboard Packaging business with a much more efficient operating model.
We recognize the opportunity to create more value out of the transaction by reducing administrative costs.
Currently we are finalizing the actions needed to right-size our support and overhead structure.
Our actions will not take long as we expect annual savings of $10 million to $15 million to begin in 2015.
Over the next 2 quarters we expect to incur costs of $6 million to $8 million as we execute the cost reduction initiative.
We will update you on our progress next quarter.
Now for the remainder of my time today I will build on David's comments and quickly take you through the year-over-year changes in sales and EBITDA.
Then to provide clarity on ongoing financial performance we pro forma last 12 months' results to reflect the changes in our business portfolio.
Finally we wrap up with cash flow debt and an update on full year guidance.
Now please turn to Slide 13 for the sales bridge.
Excluding the divestitures the ongoing business grew 2.8% compared to last year.
As David commented price at $24 million was the largest driver of revenue improvement.
Overall volume finished slightly better as Paperboard Packaging volumes were consistent with the prior year and the addition of Benson offset a modest decline in the divested multi-wall bag business.
Now moving to Q2 EBITDA bridge on Slide 14.
Again excluding divestitures EBITDA improved 12% with $45 million of price and performance more than offsetting inflation.
Now looking forward to Q3 we expect EBITDA to be consistent on a sequential basis with Q2 results.
Continued improvement in Paperboard Packaging operating results are expected to offset EBITDA reductions caused by the multi-wall bag divestiture.
And in summary if we look at Q2 EBITDA results we are pleased with the fundamentals we are seeing: solid pricing further opportunities to reduce cost and manageable inflation.
Now let's turn to Page 15 and review pro forma results.
The pro forma removes the noncore businesses we sold and adds the Benson acquisition to provide a baseline of our ongoing business financials.
The calculations assume we operated Benson for the full year and did not operate the divested businesses.
Remember over the last 9 months we sold retail plastics the URB mill the labels business and on June 30 multi-wall bag was closed.
As you see the top line is slightly smaller but this generates an LTM EBITDA of $685 million and improves the margin rate to approximately 17%.
These transactions will allow us to enhance returns on future M&amp;A and capital investments as we focus on a more profitable core business with substantial operating leverage.
Now moving to Slide 16.
You'll find our cash flow debt tax and liquidity summary.
Not including M&amp;A activity only counting operating results we have generated $62 million of year-to-date debt reduction.
As most of you know we generate the majority of our cash flow in the second half of the year.
We remain on track to deliver $350 million in net debt reduction from operations in 2014.
Currently our net leverage stands at 3.17x and given our cash flow outlook for this year we expect to be within 2.5x to 3x our target leverage range as we leave 2014.
Overall looking at our debt portfolio we have an average effective borrowing rate of approximately 3.3% and strong liquidity of over $700 million.
Now before turning to guidance I would like to make a comment about our Q2 taxes.
As stated earlier the loss on sale of multi-wall bag resulted in a tax credit for the quarter and benefited us by increasing our NOL.
The NOL grew from $830 million at the end of Q1 to $917 million at June 30.
The NOL is a substantial asset for us that we will monetize as we continue to substantially save on U.S.
federal income taxes.
Now turning to the last slide you will see our outlook for 2014.
Given the M&amp;A activity we lowered the tax rate depreciation and amortization and interest.
If you have any questions about guidance we will address it during the Q&amp;A.
And with those comments I will turn the call back to the operator for the question-and-answers period.
Thank you.
Johnna if you could go ahead and redefine the Q&amp;A process please.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Ghansham Panjabi.
Research Division</strong> First off on productivity for 2014 you initially targeted $70 million to $90 million for the year.
You're lowering it to $60 million post the weather issues for the first quarter and also the divestitures.
David I know it's early but is there a reason productivity should not be in the $70 million to $90 million range for '15 as you look out ahead now? For 2015? I'm going to try and get us through this next quarter before I worry too much about productivity for 2015.
Because our timing for working that out is our September is when we really do our LRP and then we put our operating plan together closer to November.
So we'll just now begin to roll up all the individual business P&amp;Ls to be able to look at operating performance.
I'm not being evasive but our performance is tied to individual projects in each mill and each converting plant and so it takes us a little while to put that together.
So until I've seen it I don't want to comment on it.
I don't think there's any reason for us to expect that our performance improvement will be materially different but there were a lot of moving parts with the divestitures and the acquisitions that we need to look at in the acquisitions in case of Benson and others to find out what their performance options are.
But directionally I don't expect it but to try to nail down a number for '15 at this point in time is just too early in our process to do so.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That makes sense.
And then just can you touch on CRB supply and demand dynamics across the industry? It looks like one of your competitors is shutting some capacity which seems to be a decent chunk of the industry.
Just philosophically how should we think about the impact on the industry and also your business? Yes I mean I saw the same announcements you did.
I don't have any better data than you have.
I think that mill was probably somewhere in the 140 000 to 150 000 tons of CRB.
CRB is still about a 2-million-ton market so you can do the math for what the industry looks like.
I think our best view on that is there'll be some short-term dislocation as customers that were previously supplied there refind a different supply base.
So those in the industry will benefit from some of that.
But CRB was strengthening a little bit anyway.
So I mean the backlogs were not -- they -- were not tight but it was not a materially weak market.
So I think it should in the long term be business as usual.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then maybe a final one for Dan.
The $6.6 million charge that you had at the reconciliation in your EBITDA table in the press release how does that split between Paperboard and Flexibles? The $6.6 million relates to the Benson transaction principally so it's in the Paperboard Packaging segment.
Your next question comes from Anthony Pettinari.
Research Division</strong> You had good margin growth in the quarter and I'm wondering if it's possible to parse out what margins were in Europe and what you think they could be in 2015.
Yes I mean it's a 2-part question do we know what the margins were in Europe? Yes.
Do we disclose what the margins are in the individual business segments? No.
What I would tell you on a go-forward basis is that we believe our margins will continue to expand across the enterprise.
But remember that we ship board from United States to Europe because it's an integrated play.
So some of those margins manifest itself back to the United States because we make Europe buy on a market-based board price.
So those margins end up back in the U.S.
So for us on an integrated play we look at that margins globally.
Those margins are continuing to trend upward in our view.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then in terms of European volume growth is it possible to get some color on what your volume growth was year-over-year maybe what you think the industry was? If you can just help us kind of understand maybe the share gain that you're seeing or if you can give us any kind of quantification around that.
Yes this is Mike Doss.
I would characterize that as year-over-year really isn't relevant because of all the acquisition work that we've done but what we see right now is a pretty steady backlog in Europe.
We're relatively busy.
And a lot of it -- the beverage business in Europe is growing.
I mentioned the premiumization but we're building machines and a number of them are ending up in Europe.
You'll see some of the areas like Germany for example.
You're starting to find them moving from less premium packages to 6-pack bottle carriers which is a lot what you find in the craft market but which requires paperboard and requires machines.
So in some of the sectors we've seen better than growth.
But it's not so much share gain versus somebody else making paper it's share gains versus alternative packaging which is good.
So as Mike said our European backlogs are good.
We're shipping a lot of board into Europe.
We've seen good growth in the overall board dynamics from Europe.
So the economic backdrop there is difficult and you know that probably better than I do but we're still encouraged by the way the business is performing at both top line and bottom line in Europe at this point in time.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And maybe just one last one on U.S.
volumes.
I mean clearly cereal pasta a lot of these categories have been much weaker than many of us have expected for some time.
As you look at the second half of the year do you see any reason for sort of positive volume growth in those categories? Or should we expect continued I don't know decline low single digits year-over-year? How do you think about volume growth in those categories that have been sort of challenged in the U.S.? Well third quarter starts back to school so you'll see the seasonality of course pick back up in those sectors but structurally I don't think we expect any big rebound.
You have seen however a number of our large consumer goods companies are promoting and cereal is one of the categories a number of their CEOs have talked about promoting.
So the backlogs in that business are okay.
But we aren't seeing -- we aren't expecting or forecasting some bounce materially different in those spaces.
It just -- look the -- I think the U.S.
consumer is still challenged right? And the people that are buying in the center of the store are materially challenged right? Their wages are lower they're paying more for X Y and Z.
Right now they're getting a benefit on energy but that's short-lived and that money doesn't necessarily translate to spending more long term.
So I think we're looking at flat to slightly down in those markets with the exception of beer; and pasta actually is -- it looks pretty good.
But it's going to be individual SKUs that are -- individual end-use sectors that will be better overall.
I think you've got it right it's kind of flat to slightly down.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos.
It's actually John [ph] sitting in for George.
I just have a couple of questions for you.
The first question is I was wondering if you could provide a little bit of granularity on the source of the $22 million of productivity.
Well I think what I'll tell you is that most of our productivity comes from the mills and we had a terrible quarter Q1 in the mills.
This $22 million or so is really sort of a normalized rate for us.
Generally speaking 75% of our improvement comes in the mills and that's probably about what we saw here.
We used less energy we used less fiber and we had a much more efficient operations because mills weren't up and down during the quarter.
So you saw a more normalized rate.
I will tell you however I was very pleased with the operational results in our converting business particularly in May and June timeframe.
We struggled a little bit early part of the quarter because we were still coming out of the weather-related so we were sort of catching up.
But by the time May and June got -- they did very well.
We saw some great productivity improvement that I expect to continue in our converting businesses on a go-forward basis.
So it was a very -- much more of a normalized performance improvement quarter versus Q1.
Okay great.
And then also last quarter you said that there was a reasonable likelihood of other price increases in 2015 given the contractual terms.
And from that standpoint I was just wondering if you can provide a little bit of color on how we might be able to estimate that on I guess a kind of stand-alone basis? Yes I mean I think what I said was that traditionally we -- previous year inflation sort of gives you a good harbinger for what you're going to see in pricing in the forward years and so that's kind of what we did.
We're going to have some hangover pricing that's going to continue into 2015 because we had some pretty significant inflation last year and that's going to continue into 2015.
And then as you look at our input inflation this year I think we're looking at maybe $35 million or so.
And that will be -- $35 million to $40 million of input inflation for the year that will be sort of where we would expect pricing to move into 2015.
Because traditionally our contracts pricing in the industry tends to really be around input cost inflation or deflation as we found in 2011.
Okay great.
And then now with regards to board prices obviously we've seen that move a little bit higher and I was just wondering have you started to see any sort of substitution away from paperboard into plastics and film? Well plastics and film have gone up as well right? So you've seen price pressure on all that.
We have not seen any change.
You've seen more substitution to and from the grades.
Between SBS and CRB and CUK you see that kind of normal back and forth.
But we really haven't seen any change from plastics other than what I mentioned in beer where the customers it's not so much on a cost basis they're trying to get more premium pricing for their beer product and therefore they put it in premium packaging which tends to be paperboard versus plastics.
So we clearly have seen a move in beer away from plastic or alternative packaging into paperboard around the globe.
Okay great.
And then just one last question before I let you move on.
Generally with regards to all the logistical issues that we've seen from both rail and freight has that encouraged you guys to keep extra inventory on hand? Or a little perhaps delayed purchases I mean shipments and purchases of product? Now you sound like one of my operating guys explaining why he's got excess inventory in his system so we'll go with that.
But the fact of the matter is freighting for us was up about $1 million this quarter so we saw some freight inflation.
And it is true that getting trucks -- and right now rail -- actually getting access to rail is more difficult than truck.
With all the shale oil stuff that's going on a lot of the capacity in rail is not coming to paperboard.
As you may expect we're at the lower end of the desirability of the rail lines so we have to fight for every car that we get.
So we've seen some issues there.
We have some inventory in the system to do that but not appreciably more than we would normally normally have.
And in fact for us a lot more of our paperboard now is going overseas to support our European growth activity so a lot of the inventory is actually on the water getting from Savannah to the ports in Europe.
That's part of the inventory build at Graphic Packaging and that will continue because it takes what? Five weeks 4 to 5 weeks to get over there now? Four.
Four weeks to get over there and that inventory is going to reside in our bases.
Your next question comes from the line of Philip Ng.
Research Division</strong> Quick question.
I mean I guess longer term that news with your competitor shutting down their capacity in the CRB is certainly constructive but in the short term I think you alluded to that as well backlogs have come in a bit for CRB and CUK.
PPI publication was reporting that.
You could see some downside pressure.
It didn't sound like you were too worried about it but I just wanted some color on your thoughts in the back half in terms of pricing.
Well I mean we have -- our backlogs in our paperboard mills are good.
So yes and I think that's what RISI reported that they were pretty stabilized year-on-year and pricing was reflecting that.
We hadn't really seen a lot of downside pressure on pricing in our paperboard business.
So that's -- I feel okay about that.
I mean I think a lot of it really depends upon what we think demand is going to be in the second half of the year right? I mean if we could hit -- we're going to have -- if we hit back-to-school in the third quarter that generally pulls demand and capacity really does -- it's not like there's new capacity that comes online so that tends to tighten them up in the third quarter and that's what we would expect.
And then fourth quarter is generally a much softer quarter for us in terms of sales and earnings but that's all sort of factored into our expectations and guidance and you guys have modeled that out for a long time.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then I guess one of the companies we cover mentioned some of their customers saw some de-stocking on the food side.
Did you see any of that impact during the third quarter? That's another one of those "How would I know?" I mean de-stocking through a system the size of the food and beverage business in the United States of America pretty difficult.
Remember Wal-Mart doesn't even report into those statistics so you have a little visibility over their supply chain but not great.
Honestly I don't know that I would buy into the de-stocking thing.
What I would tell you is that it's just been a difficult economic recovery for the average blue-collar American and those are our customers.
More than anything those are the trends that we're fighting versus some ongoing de-stocking of the pantry.
I'm not buying that.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then I guess medium to long term I believe your board's meeting in September would cash flow deployment priorities be an area of focus in the meeting? And should we get an update later this year? When we talk -- when we put our LRP together we'll look at everything: sales EBITDA cash flow and what we're going to do relative to our capital investment synergy improvement and what we'll do with cash flow that's not needed for debt reduction.
As Dan said we should be pretty close.
We'll be in that 2.5x to 3x range by the end of the year which provides us more flexibility in 2015 on a go-forward basis and we'll sit down with the Board and figure out what that looks like.
But for me and I've talked about this before I like to generate the cash first before I go spend it.
Unlike my daughters who believe it's the other way around I know it's better to have it and then figure out what you're going to do with it and that's what we're going to be working on.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Usha Guntupalli.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned a potential upside to synergies from the recent European acquisitions.
Could you put a range on what that upside could be? And also some color on the dry wood [ph] for that upside? So really the upside for us wasn't an improvement in the actual number it was more the networking and the ability to kind of work on a more global basis to service our multinational customers.
That's really the synergy benefit we're seeing both in terms of our operator exchanges and in terms of our product development folks.
And so really the way that helps us as we think about the medium term is over here we have to generate the cost reduction that we talked about here and the ranges that we did and those are the types of projects that we are able to share from one business unit to another to really help us make sure that we get that each and every year.
That's really more the context of the upside we were talking about.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then for the Flexible Packaging business in the second half what kind of a ramp in margins can we expect post the sale of multi-wall bag business? Yes so that will be a question for Mondi.
We no longer have any business in flexible or multi-wall bag.
Graphic Packaging is a pure play paperboard business so we have no projections in the second half for anything that is not paperboard-based.
Research Division</strong> I just meant like margins for your business given that that business is no longer there so just trying back-allocate -- like how much benefit could that mean for your margins? Yes I mean you saw our margins increase in the quarter.
Obviously we were 17% which included multi-wall bag.
We talked about -- Dan's talked about trending north of that closer to 18% and that's probably where we're headed assuming everything else.
But on a normalized basis paperboard margins were higher and you would expect us to be heading towards that 18% EBITDA margin basis -- EBITDA margin.
Just to remind you we did give you -- we did recast the financials to give you an LTM based on the new business profile and you can use that as your starting baseline to build forward and to go through the second half of the year.
And David also gave you guidance on cost reduction and pricing on top of that so that you can use that information to get to where you need to be.
I think the key on margins for us will -- we're pretty sure we get the cost reduction the pricing is sort of locked in.
It really depends upon how does the volume hold in the second half of the year right? That's where the margin expansion is.
So assuming that the volume sort of holds where we expect right now -- we'd expect margin expansion.
Right now I think it's very difficult for us to give a really good view of the U.S.
economic performance because it seems to be -- it's a variable recovery to say the absolute least.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And just one last one on inflation.
Commodity inflation seem to have picked up in the second quarter.
Could you provide more color on the key drivers and your expectation for each one in the second half? Just trying to figure out what you have factored in for each of the key buckets? Yes let me help a little bit with that.
Let's just use the $13 million worth of commodity inflation in the second quarter.
About $4 million of that or so was energy inflation.
The $2.7 million was -- about $3 million of it was external board.
We buy SBS -- well we buy some other boards but we buy predominantly SBS.
And as you well know there was a price increase registered in SBS.
And so year-on-year that was about $3 million.
And then we had about $2 million worth of wood -- and I mean round wood inflation.
As I look forward in the second half of the year I think energy inflation is pretty stabilized.
We're hedging at this point in time actually below $4 as we go forward.
So I think energy year-on-year will be pretty flat.
The board -- external board will continue to be around the same kind of a number because it's a year-on-year comp.
I can't remember exactly when those prices went up...
It times out really at the end of Q1 of next year.
So it will be a direct -- and then wood prices this time of year tend to trend down a little bit because we don't fight the weather so much.
We can get in and get the pine out pretty easily so I think the $2 million worth of wood inflation is probably at the upper end of what we would expect to see in the second quarter.
And I mentioned earlier freight was about $1 million year-on-year.
That feels about right.
You've seen the surcharges come down a little bit because the energy complex is variable unless somebody launches another rocket or something that creates a dislocation we haven't planned on you would expect freight to be around that.
So I mean those are sort of the -- that's why I think it will moderate a little bit in the third quarter because I don't think energy is going to be up nearly that much for us.
Your last question comes from the line of Ketan Mamtora.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick one.
Can you remind us what is sort of the base capital spending for this business now and some of the key projects you have for 2014? Well our cap -- I think if you look on Page 17 we are going to spend somewhere between $185 million and $200 million roughly on an annualized basis.
75% or 80% of that or more is in the mills and those projects are really around cost reduction fiber -- eliminating fiber eliminating water -- use of water and chemical reductions.
For example this year I think we mentioned that we spent $14 million in Kalamazoo putting a curtain coater on that thing.
So that takes out $10 million a year of use of TiO2 titanium dioxide in our coatings because we're putting a different kind of thing.
Those are the kinds of projects that will be in our mill.
And as I said earlier in the call each one of the capital projects like our performance are tied to individual projects.
So when we talk about the range it's because in a given year it may range up if we have a great project.
If we don't then we won't spend the capital.
Fortunately for Graphic because we were so highly levered for a number of years our best capital project's really just paying down debt and that's what Dan forced us to do.
As we go forward a lot of the projects in the mills are still great projects.
They were great before but now they rise to the level of we should fund these projects because paying down debt does not have nearly as much return to the shareholders.
And so that's why a lot of the capital is really on cost reduction which is why when I talk about I think we're going to be good in our cost reduction program it's because I'm focusing more and more of my CapEx towards those kinds of things on a go-forward basis.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then one last one with your recent expansion in Europe obviously the 2 acquisitions that you did earlier and then Benson would you at some point look at sort of recycled mill capacity in Europe? That's -- I would never say never to anything because you just don't know how the structure and the industry will change.
Right now I think in Europe we've got our hands full just integrating these 3 businesses plus fixing our old one.
We had some plant shutdowns some things that we're doing relative to integrating new tons.
So that's going to be our focus in 2014 and '15.
Long term we'll take a look at any of those things that we might think will improve the business in Europe.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to the presenters.
Yes.
Well thank you very much all and we'll talk to you in the next quarter.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Steve and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Graphic Packaging Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) Vice President and Treasurer Brad Ankerholz you may begin your conference.
Thanks Steve and welcome everybody to Graphic Packaging Holding Company's third quarter 2014 earnings call.
Commenting on results this morning are David Scheible the company's Chairman President and CEO; Mike Doss our Chief Operating Officer; and Dan Blount our Senior Vice President and CFO.
Also joining us today is Steve Scherger our new Senior Vice President of Finance.
To help people along with today's call we've provided a slide presentation which can be accessed by clicking on the Webcasts and Presentations link on the Investors section of our website at graphicpkg.com I would like to remind everyone that statements of our expectations plans estimates and beliefs regarding future performance and events constitute future-looking statements.
Such statements are based on currently available information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's present expectations.
Information regarding these risks and uncertainties is contained in the company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements as such statements speak only as of the date on which they are made and the company undertakes no obligation to update such statements.
David I'll turn it over to you now.
Good morning everyone.
We had a solid third quarter.
I'm pleased with our results.
Third quarter adjusted EBITDA increased 9% to $191 million and our adjusted EBITDA margin increased over 300 basis points to a record 18.2%.
During last quarter's earnings call I said we expected the third quarter EBITDA to look a lot like second quarter and it's exactly what happened.
Demand across some of our core used markets remains challenging no question about that but we are executing our global strategy we're maintaining the bottomline and tracking to a full year EBITDA and cash flow targets.
We reduced net debt in the quarter by $140 million and dropped our leverage ratio below 3.0.
We think this is a testament to the unique model we built which combines low-cost paper mill assets with highly efficient converting facilities and industry-leading design development.
We spent years honing our strategy in improving our execution and we're beginning to see the results consistently of those efforts as a pure play vertically-integrated paperboard packaging company.
Our recent divestitures and acquisitions make it somewhat difficult to understand the underlying fundaments and business trends.
For example sales declined 9.7% in the quarter and that's what you'll see in the financial table on the back of the press release.
However adjusting for the recently divested businesses our ongoing paperboard packaging sales actually increased 4.9% principally related to the acquisitions in Europe.
Volumes across the paperboard business were down slightly about 0.5% in the quarter and the decline was predominantly attributable to continued weakness in the domestic cereal and dry food markets.
Consumers continue to closely manage their discretionary spending while we're beginning to see some major food companies responding with increased promotional and advertising activities to drive volume.
Lower grain prices versus last year is allowing these companies to improve their margins while working on volumes through promotional activity.
Historically this strategy has resonated with the end consumer and has improved sales time will tell.
Our performance across our core addressable markets is solid.
We're gaining global market share and end market demand for our major product categories such as carbonated soft drink beer frozen pizza and cereal remained a mixed bag in the third quarter.
Some of our end use markets were very good.
Some went sideways and some weakened.
Understanding the underlying drivers of each of our core market segments requires a drill-down of these trends at the sub-sector level.
In doing this you'll see that we are pretty well positioned.
Carbonated soft drinks is a great example.
Volume across the total CSD market continued to be down and this market is reported to be in a secular decline.
However when digging down a bit you'll see there is a real difference in the in-market performance of cans versus plastic bottles or multi-pack versus single-serve take home versus on-premise and national brands versus private label.
ACNielsen data indicated that overall soft drink market declined 2.5% in the quarter when compared to last year.
Our sweet spot however is cans multi-packs take home and predominantly for national brands.
They are outperforming their counterparts and some by a pretty wide margin.
The overwhelming majority of our CSD business is multi-pack cans specifically (inaudible) 12 packs sold to the big national brands due to grocery and mass market channels.
That's where the volume is being driven the CSD end market today and that's where we play.
Our Perry Georgia converting facility is running a significant amount of 12-can multi-packs which minimizes downtime and maximizes productivity since there are minimal changeovers to the machines.
This is a highly efficient process that allows the big national brands to drive volumes to price without impacting margin.
Despite the marketplace challenges we're encouraged about our CSD business as the overall declines in the market are not having an impact on our business.
The end market trends in beer are even more complicated.
Craft beer is still the fastest growing segment of the market.
It's off a relatively small base and we're now seeing a movement in the craft segment towards cans.
Our craft beer business is smaller than our big beer business of course but it's growing at a much faster double-digit rate.
Additionally our customers in both craft and big beer are utilizing our new tight pack for glass.
So new product efforts are paying off in all of the beer sectors for Graphic.
We've doubled the number of machine placements in the craft segment year-to-date and expect to add a similar number of machines in 2015 as well.
We're also now supplying nine of the top 10 craft brewers in the United States as reported by IRI total US food channel.
Looking at our key big beer customers we have seen relatively stable demand over the last few quarters.
Our recent acquisitions in Europe have improved our position in beer packaging in those markets as well.
And we continue to see positive trends in the European beer packaging demand.
These macro trends towards premunization are beginning to take hold in the emerging markets as well where we are selling an increasing number of packaging machines as we shift from plastic to paper in those markets.
Overall the global beer market is doing very well and we are doing so as well.
Consumer packaging is our largest market.
And within this sector our large businesses are frozen pizza cereal dry foods and other frozen foods.
The frozen pizza market has been volatile over the past year and influenced by the pricing trends from the big home delivery chains.
Frozen pizza however was much better in the third quarter.
After a real challenging second quarter the decline in the third quarter was about 1% according to ACNielsen.
Total dry foods were down about 1.3% as reported by ACNielsen while cereals showed the biggest decline across these sectors and was down about 3.3% in volume for the quarter.
Mike will talk about it next but our promise in this space is really driven more by new product and new channel sales where we have some real positives.
Pricing across the business was up about $19 million in the third quarter and that equates to roughly $55 million in paperboard for the nine-month period as we've recovered prior period's input inflation cost.
We told you that pricing will peak in the second quarter and would begin to fall off some in the fourth quarter.
We're tracking in line with this plan and do not expect to see much year-over-year pricing benefit in Q4.
Input cost inflation was roughly $16 million in the quarter and was driven by increased cost for wood external board and to a modest extent energy.
Looking forward we like the way we've positioned the business and the directional trends heading into 2015.
We'll share more details on our fourth quarter call relative to 2015.
As most of you know the fourth quarter is typically a seasonably slower period of us because of the shift in discretionary spending around the holidays but there are levers to pull and the productivity gains in the mills are more than offsetting weakness in some of the core end use markets.
There's always work to be done around optimizing our supply chain and there's still some opportunity to further right-size our resources and asset base.
We recently closed the facility in Canada and adjusted our overhead structure within Graphic needed to support our streamlined business.
Dan will discuss the cost and the benefits of these activities in his comments.
One final note I'd like to express my heartfelt congratulations to Dan Blount on his planned retirement well earned.
Dan and I have worked together for the past 11 years and he's been a trusted confidante and a critical member of the leadership team.
I know I speak for everyone here at Graphic and many of you on this call in wishing him all the best in his retirement.
As far as our transition plans Steve Scherger was named Senior Vice President Finance effective October 1st and will be appointed Chief Financial Officer as we start 2015.
Steve was previously Senior Vice President in Consumer Packaging Division and has over 20 years of global packaging experience when he was the General Manager Finance and Strategy.
His deep experience along with his financial and operating background uniquely positions him as the ideal CFO successor for Graphic going forward.
We look forward to introducing Steve to the investor community over the next few months.
I'm now going to turn the call over to Mike Doss our Chief Operating Officer who will talk to you more about how we're executing our global strategy and driving the business forward.
Mike? Thank you David and good morning everyone.
Graphic Packaging is committed to be a leader in the global paperboard packaging business in the food and beverage sectors.
We spent the last six years both building and optimizing our core business around this focus.
We've divested non-core assets and businesses to free up capital.
We invested heavily in our core business and substantially reduced debt levels.
We've streamlined and significantly increased our productivity in our low-cost mills.
We've optimized our network of global converting facilities around both our mills and marquee customers.
We've implemented LEAN and Six Sigma resources to shorten our supply chain and improve efficiencies across the organization.
In short we've built a very unique business model that vertically integrates low-cost mills with a network of highly efficient converting facilities.
The net result from all of this work is a pure play global paperboard packaging company with a clear top and bottomline growth strategy.
As we've discussed previously we have an incremental 150 000 to 200 000 tons of low-cost unutilized pulp capacity in our mills that provides us with tremendous operating leverage as we grow.
With the amount of build we are focused on driving our converting volumes and leveraging the additional pulping capacity.
We do this in a number of way through new product development channel expansion product substitution geographic expansion and acquisitions.
Over the past few years we've significantly expanded our penetration into faster growing segments of the markets focused our new product development on supply chain sustainability and broad-based consumer trends and made three major strategic acquisitions in Europe to further expand our geographic presence in the food and beverage markets.
Our European integration is progressing to plan and is already beginning to pay dividends as we were awarded our first major SUS conversion contract with a big UK food group.
It's in the frozen pizza category and is expected to generate close to 800 000 tons of incremental SUS demand.
As you know just about everything we do in the US frozen pizza market utilizes our SUS.
We use low caliper board that offers superior characteristics in the areas of strength printability and freeze/thaw.
We believe it's a far better alternative to existing recycle substrates in these tremendous conversion opportunities across Europe.
The operating side of our business had a terrific quarter and we like our forward trends.
Our mill division set daily and monthly production records at both Macon and West Monroe this quarter.
Tons per day increased by more than 4% and our yield improved by almost 100 basis points to over 90% in the quarter.
Although SUS production was down in the first quarter due to weather total production was strong in both the second and third quarters.
Q3 alone increased by nearly 25 000 tons over last year.
We've done our normal plan downtime at our Macon mill for annual maintenance and the mill came back up flawlessly.
In addition to productivity improvements we saw the reduction in energy cost from our biomass boiler in Macon as the capital we've reinvested back in our mills over the past few years has really begun to pay off.
In total we recognized $22 million of performance-based improvements in the quarter with a majority coming from mills in our European synergies.
We continue to emphasis on procurement energy operating efficiencies and fixed cost were the primary drivers of our performance improvement gains and we are tracking to full year adjusted target of $60 million in net performance benefits.
Graphic's new product development strategy remains consistent in both the US and Europe.
Our focus is on innovative packaging solutions that offer convenient solutions for on-the-go consumers better shelf impact for product recognition and improved sustainability for our product partners.
We launched several new products in the third quarter but two big call-outs are first a major commercial launch of our proprietary Tite-Pak product with Miller Coors and second several big club store roll-outs with Kellogg's Special K Rice Krispies Treats and Kashi brands.
Both of these conversion wins from corrugate to solid fiber demonstrate our ability to expand our business through new volume growth in solid fiber.
The business is well positioned in both the US and Europe but we operate in a very challenging environment.
As a result we're always evaluating our infrastructure and looking to optimize our asset base.
And we'll be making some adjustments over the next few quarters around that footprint.
In closing I too would like to add my congratulations to Dan Blount on his planned retirement and thank him for the leadership over the past 16 years.
With that I'm going to turn it over to Dan who'll take you through our financials in greater detail.
Thanks Mike and good morning to everyone.
As in the past I will use our posted presentation to aid in our discussion.
Let's start on Slide 13.
As you see we reported adjusted third quarter EBITDA of nearly $191 million.
This result is in line with the guidance we provided during last quarter's earnings call.
Q3 adjusted net income rose to $57.5 million from $42.9 million a 34% increase.
Adjusted EPS at $0.17 up $0.05 over the last year.
Improved operating results coupled with lower interest expense drove the earnings increase.
In the quarter EBITDA margins climbed above 18% and interest expense driven primarily by lower debt levels declined by $3 million.
In looking at net income income tax expense stands out as needing special mention.
At 43% our effective tax rate was 3 percentage points over our normal rate cost us about $0.01 per share.
I'll go into further details around taxes shortly but it is important to note that the spike we saw in tax expense is a Q3 event and should not continue into the fourth quarter.
Primarily due to our previously announced administrative cost reduction initiative and to a lesser extent expenses related to European integration we incurred $8.3 million $4.5 million after-tax of non-recurring charges this quarter.
As a reminder last quarter we announced that we were going to create more value out of the Multi-wall Bag divestiture by rightsizing our support and overhead structure.
During Q3 we executed the actions needed to deliver the cost reduction.
Starting in 2015 annual savings from these efforts are expected to yield at the higher end of our $10 million to $15 million targeted range.
As previously communicated these reductions will be in addition to our normal $60 million to $70 million annual cost reduction target.
Now for the remainder of my time today I will build on David and Mike's comments and quickly take you through the year-over-year change in sales and EBITDA.
I will wrap up my commentary on cash flow debt tax and an update on guidance.
Please turn to Slide 14 for the sales bridge where you see the categories driving the change in sales.
Excluding these divestitures the ongoing business grew nearly 5% compared to last year.
As David commented price at $19 million was a significant contributor to revenue improvement albeit at a lower rate than experienced last quarter.
Overall volumes finished better as the acquisition of Benson offset the modest declines David described.
Looking forward to further price improvement please recall that price began increasing in fourth quarter 2013.
Therefore we expect next quarter's pricing to be only modestly better than the prior year.
Moving to our Q3 EBITDA bridge on Slide 15 again excluding divestitures adjusted EBITDA improved $17.6 million or 10% with $41 million of price and performance more than offsetting inflation.
Looking forward to Q4 we expect adjusted EBITDA to be around $170 million which is $10 million to $12 million better than Q4 last year.
Continued operating result improvement driven by mill productivity and acquisition integration is expected to drive earnings growth.
We expect Q4 demand adjusted for our normal business seasonality to be consistent with the flat to slightly down markets we have experienced throughout this year.
So in summary looking at Q3 results we continue to be pleased with our operating performance price capture margin expansion through cost reduction and manageable inflation.
We are able to drive earnings improvement in an environment where demand in our core markets is flat to slightly lower.
Moving to Slide 16 you'll find our cash flow debt tax and liquidity summary.
You'll note that year-to-date cash flow from operations has generated $202 million of debt reduction.
As most of you know we generate the majority of our cash flow in the second half of the year.
In Q3 we delivered nearly $140 million of debt reduction.
We clearly remain on track to achieve $350 million of net debt reduction from operating cash flows in 2014.
Now a highlight for the quarter is that our debt leverage dipped into the high end of our 2.5 to 3 times target range.
Net debt leverage currently stands at 2.9 times.
Given our full year cash flow outlook we expect to be in the bottom half of our target leverage range as we leave 2014.
Overall looking at our debt portfolio we have an average effective borrowing rate of 3.4% and strong liquidity of over $850 million.
This interest rate and liquidity position should improve going forward as on October 2nd we completed a transaction to amend and extend our senior secured credit facility.
The highlights of this transaction include: first added another year to the facility maturity out to October 2019; second reduced the pricing grid by 25 basis points lowering our current LIBOR spread to 1.5% saved us more than $3 million in cash interest per year; third upgraded the term loan and revolver debt mix increased the revolver to $1.25 billion decreased the term loan to $1 billion.
I'm pleased with the revolver upgrade.
Now that we have met our debt targets it provides us with a much better tool to manage cash.
Additionally the larger revolver will provide a stronger liquidity profile going forward.
In terms of the transaction cost the payback is less than a year as we continue to take advantage of opportunities to improve our capital structure.
The other debt structure opportunity we have is to refinance our 7 7/8 % bonds.
Many of you know that they became callable earlier this month.
We fully expect to take advantage of this refinancing opportunity in the near term and would expect to be able to further reduce annual interest expense by $6 million to $8 million.
Now before turning to guidance I want to circle back and comment about taxes.
Our effective tax rate in Q3 was approximately 43% versus our guidance of 38% to 40%.
Now before talking about the effective tax rate I do want to remind you that while we record tax expense to the P&amp;L we do not pay US federal income taxes as we take advantage of our NOL assets.
At the end of Q3 our NOL balance stood at $811 million.
And for full year 2014 we expect cash taxes to total less than $15 million.
Now turning back to the effective tax rate the 43% rate experienced in the quarter was primarily driven by the geographic mix of earnings specifically lower earnings in our lowest tax rate international jurisdictions.
We do not expect this higher rate to continue.
Q4 should return to the 40% range.
And for the full year 2014 we expect the tax rate to be in the 40% to 41% range.
And if you look forward to 2015 our projected tax rate remains at approximately 36% to 38% based on projected international earnings growth as we realize the benefits of the integration and our newly acquired European businesses.
I will however reiterate that we will not be meaningful taxpayer next year as the bulk of the tax expense will simply reduce the NOL tax asset.
Now turning to last slide you see our outlook for 2014.
Given that we only have a quarter left in the year we have tightened up on our ranges particularly with CapEx interest and we also adjusted the tax rate outlook.
If you have any questions about guidance we'll address those during Q&amp;A.
And then as a final note I would like to thank David and Mike for their comments about my retirement.
From my perspective however it has really truly been an honor and I consider myself very fortunate to have served on this management team led by David Scheible.
David is a highly motivating leader and the business value created over my nearly 17 years really far exceed than the expectation I may have had.
While my time at Graphic is coming to an end I will continue to be an investor.
With David's continuing leadership and a management team that includes really deeply experienced talents such as Mike Doss and Steve Scherger I'm going to enjoy watching the business continue to move forward.
And with those final comments thanks to everyone and I will now turn the call back to the operator for Q&amp;A.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird &amp; Co.
It's actually Mehul Dalia sitting in for Ghansham.
Can you give us some more color on the inter-quarter trajectory for (inaudible) during 3Q? Was there any major deletions month-to-month? I'm wondering if there's any volatility month-to-month? It was a pretty consistent quarter.
I think when we talked on our last earnings call we were mid-way through the quarter and I gave the indication we thought it'd be quarter a lot like second quarter from a volume and earnings standpoint.
And that's kind of what we saw.
We did see of course the traditional pick-up in back-to-school and some beverage pick up because the Labor Day holidays are in there.
But it was pretty consistent.
The Multi-wall Bag business you remember had a lot of construction elements relative to those products and that added some volatility historically to us that really just didn't show up in this quarter.
And that's sort of our expectations going forward as well.
Fourth quarter should be pretty consistent.
The trends that we're seeing in beer soft drink are pretty consistent from what we've seen in the third quarter.
There's some evidence that promotional activity is helping in dry foods and cereals and so on and so forth.
But I think the volume trends are pretty prescriptive for what we've seen in 2014 year-to-date.
Given that you're now within your target net debt to leverage ratio how do you think capital allocation evolves over the next year? Just wondering of the timing of a move toward dividends or buybacks? I think we've consistently said that that's something we're clearly going to deal with in early part of 2015.
And I have no reason to believe that that timing has changed.
I'm pretty confident in our cash flows.
We had a good quarter in the third.
I expect to have a good quarter as well in the fourth on cash flow.
And that would put us in a great place in the first part of 2015 to talk about more externally-focused cash flow return.
Our priority is still going to be investment back in the mills because there's great returns in those projects.
We're still looking at acquisitions bolt-on.
That'll be a priority because they strategically add to the business long term.
And then third on that will be the ability to return some cash to shareholders.
Dan mentioned on his discussion that until we refinance the revolver our baskets in past were limited.
The restructuring that he just did and completed gives us a lot more flexibility to do some things with return to shareholders that previously until we got this finalized here in the third quarter was not possible for us.
So we're in a good shape from a business standpoint.
And I think we've got the capital structure flexibility worked out from a timing standpoint as well.
So we're focused on that in 2015.
Can you give us an update on integration efforts related to the European acquisitions assuming it's on track synergies and everything else? We're right on track with the guidance we provided with the Benson integration.
We'll deliver the $15 million to $17 million for Contego and A&amp;R here in '14.
And then in '15 we'll deliver the $6 million to $8 million that we outlined in our previous guidance.
We are starting to see some sales advantages in that as well.
There's some transitions that occurred.
He mentioned some SUS in the pizza and some other applications there.
So we're getting some traction with our SUS board which was as you remember strategically important part of the European business.
You'll see it in the P&amp;L.
It takes a little bit more working capital because shipping to Perry is a lot shorter than shipping to Liverpool.
But at the end of the day nonetheless the return on the additional board sales are certainly worth our working capital investment.
And that's what you're going to see on a go-forward basis.
Our next question comes from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies.
On the last call I think you guys mentioned you expected inflation to moderate a bit.
We've seen OCC prices and energy pull back a bit.
So I'm surprised to see inflation take up sequentially.
Can you give us some color? And if I'm remember on the last call you guys guided toward $30 million to $40 million inflation number.
Is that just input cost inflation and how much do we tack on for labor? Our input inflation this quarter was a little less than $16 million which I think was pretty consistent than what we saw before.
I will tell you our primary driver this quarter on inflation was actually external board sales.
We buy SBS and some COB outside and there were some pricing there that's lapping the quarter.
Energy costs were pretty moderate.
They were less than $3 million.
Our second biggest was wood.
Woods costs were up about $2.4 million.
So if you look on a forward basis I think we expect our input inflation going forward to be around $30 million $35 million.
And that's probably a good conservative estimate.
I don't see a lot of drivers in OCC.
Wood prices are clearly moderated quarter-on-quarter.
I don't think you'll see much in the fourth quarter all relative to wood increase.
And Dan has hedged out a good part of our energy for next year right around $4 per MMbtu which will be year-on-year flat on energy costs I think for the most part.
So I think a $30 million increase in '15 looks about right.
Labor and benefits we've always said is generally around $30 million to $35 million.
We had a spike up in this quarter.
It had to do with some timing on medical costs year-on-year.
But as you go forward we won't see that kind of increase next year on a sequential or on an annual basis.
And I think there were some other things in there like we've been encouraging more participating in the 401(k) and we had sort of a spike up in the quarter for increased employee participation in the 401(k).
So I would tell you if you look forward if you look at total inflation going forward we're probably in that $60 million to $65 million.
Performance next year $60 million to $70 million plus whatever the integration activity in Europe and pricing will be a lot more moderate but it'll be $10 million to $15 million or something like that on a carryover basis.
I mean we've been averaging guys around 5% EBITDA year-on-year growth is kind of what we've shown historically and it's kind of where we're at.
From what we know right now that's kind of where we look.
Phil I know it's a trend to try to predict every type of inflation category and all the pricing categories and build it into your models.
You're going to have to have an IQ of about 200 to be able to do that accurately.
But in any event I think if you pay attention to how we're improving the margins in the business we're managing inflation we're managing pricing we're managing the improvements in the cost reduction.
You'll see that we've taken the right actions given all those inputs going forward.
And additionally just to add on to David's comments in terms of natural gas we see an opportunity to lock in natural gas at what we consider to be a very very favorable price.
And not only have we gone into 2015 we've gone into 2016.
So you're looking at taking natural gas inflation really off the table for close to two years as we implement this strategy.
I think we're on top of our game here.
If you look at margin increase and the way we're managing the business I just wanted to add those comments on to David's.
I think the key question is really sort of what does the volume do and some of the markets did very well.
Some of them not so well but some of the acquisition growth which has been a part of our plan on a go-forward basis will continue to add to the topline.
We have a lot of fixed cost to blow through.
It's why the margins were up 300 points because there's fixed cost blowing through increased volume through the integrated acquisitions.
And that's sort of the story.
We sort of told you guys what we thought the quarter was going to look like.
We bought $190 million in much like the second quarter.
And that's kind of where it was and the breakdowns are pretty much what we said it would be.
Inflation was moderate.
Pricing was good.
Performance was excellent and margins were up 300 basis points.
We're overall pretty pleased with that performance.
Can you give us an early look on how you think about free cash flow for 2015 weight at least some of the moving pieces? Just want to get a little color on how you think about CapEx next year as well.
I think it's a little early to do that.
We're still in our planning cycle.
I can give you some overall comments and my expectations here.
I expect cash flows in terms of the percentage of EBITDA that you're going to deliver us cash flows to be consistent with what we've done in 2014.
And to David's point we're going to look at capital allocation very closely.
We've got cash and investing back into the business pursuing really smart acquisitions and then giving back to shareholders is a priority.
So we've always been very transparent with how we're running the business and how we're allocating cash.
And I expect that to continue in 2015.
I think one of the things Dan and I talked about with you all before too was we have cash to invest back in the mills things we've not really had money to do in previous years.
And we're going to invest back in the mills to address the same issues you talked about which was inflation.
So we're going to look at way to take energy fiber digesting capacity those kinds of things reduced because mainly due to those input inflations.
The stuff that ends up in the mills and cost reductions those we keep in our profit.
And that's what we're going to continue to invest in.
I don't think our CapEx is going to spike up.
We've talked what $200 million to 220 million sort of a range.
And everything we need to do in the next couple of years to be able to make investments to be able to better the business.
On an ongoing basis or long-term basis we should be able to run this business at about $200 million worth of CapEx and do absolutely everything we need to do.
And that's consistent with our guidance in the past.
Why don't you give some color on how trends are shaking out in Europe certainly certain concerns on the macro front? I appreciate that you guys are getting some market share.
And then in North America you sound a bit more upbeat.
But one of your largest Euro customer did announce a plant closure.
Just want to get a sense if that will have any impact going forward on your business.
I don't know that I would use the word upbeat relative to US demand.
What I said is we've got programs to help fill in where our customers are struggling.
What I would say is that it's really by sector.
Actually for us beer and soft drinks still are pretty good business for us.
Tissue business pretty good business.
Some of those dry foods segments really good.
Cereal is still struggling.
Obviously we know that they shut down the facility.
But on the other hand if you go into the stores right now you're going to see those same customers promoting cereal and they're doing bogo buy one get one free type things.
So you're seeing those kinds of activities which are traditionally driving volumes as I said in my comments.
Let's see how that works out.
Right now those trends look okay.
But I don't believe anybody is suggesting US economy is particularly hitting on all cylinders.
Mike will talk more about Europe but overall yeah Europe is struggling overall but we're in a pretty small slice of the European market.
We're doing food and beverage and those trends are not necessarily materially different than what we're seeing in United States.
If anything the beverage market is stronger in Europe and here.
That's right David.
I mean our overall beverage volumes year-over-year in Europe were actually up.
Our consumer products both in the UK and Continental Europe has held up pretty well.
And we've had a couple of wins as we outlined here.
So we like the momentum as we head into 2015 in that business.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
You talked about mill system with 150 000 to 200 000 tons of spare pulp.
And I was just wondering if you could remind us when you would expect that to get utilized? Maybe by the end of 2015 how many tons would you expect to have utilized in your system? I think what we've said is that if you look at our comments that we expected over the next three years to be able to build out those tons and use them.
I didn't give guidance.
But what I will tell you is certainly with the growth in Europe in some of the transitions for example Mike mentioned on the call that Miller Coors is transitioning to a Tite-Pak.
They're transitioning from a corrugated structure to Tite-Pak.
We're going to have to figure out 15 000 tons 16 000 tons of incremental business because that's the transition.
And so over the next three years we'll build out those tons.
And it will be a pretty consistent increase right now in our planning each of those years.
But it will take that long.
First of all we will not build those tons ahead of sales.
And then there is some lead time in building the tons as well simply because we'll want to do all that during maintenance downtimes.
We can't really take our mills offline to be able to do larger construction projects because we need the paper.
So we'll do it consistently over a two to three-year period to generate those tons as demand increases.
So right now if you look at SUS year-on-year 40 000 tons of SUS demand year-on-year.
And so I sort of like those trends on a go-forward basis.
And for instance the pizza contract have you already shipped tons for that already or is that Q4 or next year? Yeah we're completely qualified and that product is commercial in the marketplace.
Maybe just a follow-up on big beer.
You described trends as stable.
You've produced carriers for I guess bottles as well as cans.
And I wondering if you're seeing a meaningful shift between those two containers and from your perspective from a volume and margin perspective is there a big difference between the two or are you seeing any kind of substitution out of bottles into cans? We're not a primary packaging supplier.
We're secondary.
So the whole issue of cans and bottles to some extent we're agnostic to that transition.
What we're a lot more interested in Anthony is the transition from plastic to paper and that is what we're seeing in Europe and in markets like Brazil.
We're also seeing more baskets sold to craft beer even in beer.
In Germany for example we just placed a couple of machines making baskets and that's a new paperboard application.
Certainly we've talked about it before and others have as well that in areas like China and in Brazil we're seeing a move towards premunization which is really a transition from plastic to paper.
And that is more exciting to us because that's net new tons whether we make our machines really or don't really know whether we're making a can pack or a bottle pack.
We've seen some improvement in the craft beer business or transitions from bottles to cans but that's all new growth because they're not substituting.
They're still making their bottle.
They're also making cans which allow them to expand their business.
Obviously some of that comes at the share of big beer but ultimately as long as our share in both of those sectors is good then we're sort of gaining as they gain.
And so we feel good about that.
Maybe just one follow-up to Phil's question on early view on 2015.
I guess you got $22 million in operational improvements in the quarter without flexibles as you've been planning for '15.
Do you have any initial view on what the performance improvement could be? I think we said that we expect to do that $60 million to $70 million plus something from Europe stuff.
So that's pretty much the same.
If you look at where our mills are if you look at the productivity I don't see a jump-up but I also don't see a drop.
I have said before it's shifting a little bit.
More of it's coming from the mills because those are bigger projects.
And now that we have as you all continually point out to me additional free cash flow we're putting some of that back into the paperboard mills because we have the money to do so and the returns on those projects are great.
A number of projects are mills they're one to two-year return projects and they're big projects.
And the Macon biomass we haven't talked about but that turned out to be just a really really good project in the process.
And we have those kinds of things in the mills.
So I'm comfortable on a go-forward we've got good productivity improvements.
Again more capital-driven and predominantly in the mills but we're not changing our guidance on CapEx materially to do it.
I think it's just a shift in our focus and direction.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with Bank of Montreal.
I wanted to just turn back to capital allocation.
Just first of all kind of thoughts on sort of dividend versus buyback activity Dave? Well of course that's a Board of Directors discussion as you well know.
And I don't know right now whether I have an opinion on one or the other.
We are one of the few companies in this space that of course does not have a dividend.
I'm not sure as to meaningful driver of share value but it might attract different level of investors or at least open us up to a newer group of investors.
We just got back from Europe.
Dan and I and Mike did a road show over there because there's lot of European interest and a number of those investors sort of have checked the box.
So we'll assess that.
Clearly in the space buying back shares has been more leveraging for shareholders than dividends.
And we see the same map Mark.
So we're going to have to assess that.
I think it just depends upon whether or not there's the dividend expectation for different group of investors but I think we would lend or lean more towards shareholder return in terms of buyback because it just seems to be more leveraging Mark.
I also wanted to talk a little bit about acquisitions.
I wondered if you could talk about converting assets versus maybe picking up mill assets.
And on the converting side I wondered if you could talk specifically about Mexico.
I mean we've seen a couple of deals in the last couple of months where brewers have sold other packaging assets.
And I know that some of those brewers actually have paperboard packaging assets.
Yeah that's still a priority for us.
I will tell you we've done well in Europe.
I mentioned on one of the other calls.
I mean our focus right now for acquisitions is probably of Europe at least for a good part of 2015 because my team over there has got a plenty to grace.
First of all they're integrating the acquisitions.
Second of all they're doing good on the sales side of the equation but that takes some time as new product transitions.
They've got some work to do and we just don't want to overload them.
As you have pointed out to me on a number of times the list of people that have done well by converting assets in Europe is very small and we don't want to join that list.
I think what we want to make sure that we do is that we've done a good job with our acquisitions in Europe and so we're very much focused on it which means our acquisition focus will be in North America.
So Canada the United States Mexico is sort of the areas we're looking at predominantly on the converting side with the same philosophy of pulling board through those converting assets.
Mexico is something we're interested in.
I told you before we're a long way down the path in Mexico.
But we sort of lost that acquisition at the last.
We couldn't confirm that the numbers were the actual numbers.
And so we sort of walked away but we expect to find something in Mexico to build on our base.
We'd like to be a much higher percentage of that market.
And we'll look to find the right assets.
But you know this that buying in Mexico you need to be patient and you need to make sure that what you're getting is what you're buying and it takes a little while to do so.
But we're not walking away from investment in Mexico.
With the dollar rallying Dave have you seen any impact from that on either sort of export volumes around the world or any impact on export pricing to this point? We don't export a lot of board other than to ourselves and I think that's where that manifests itself.
So we haven't really seen it.
We also haven't seen a lot more imported board.
I mean that's always a possibility but since we're in the carton business you still got to quality got to get the customers to get okay with it.
These are the same issues that make it sticky for us to transition business makes it difficult for anybody else as well.
So we haven't really seen an impact.
Paperboard for folding cartons is really not sort of a scale-up scale-down.
Customers really don't like changing their printed paper stock that touches their products on a regular basis.
So you have to begin it but on the long haul it's kind of tough to arbitrage a paperboard transition based on currency because you and I both know it's great that the currency is strong right now but we're putting money like there's no tomorrow.
So long term you got to wonder about whether the strengthened dollar is something you can count on over a three or four-year period of time.
And our customers are really not that interested in the short-term gain on a currency evaluation if that board might not be there.
We've had a wet autumn down at some parts of the Southeast.
And I wondered if that was having any impact on kind of wood cost particularly around Macon.
And then I wondered also with this highway bill any change in cash pension contribution next year? We've seen no material impact in our wood basket in Macon or West Monroe.
We're well aware of the highway bill and the possibility that your minimum contribution level could be lower.
Currently our strategy is to continue to fund our pension at our current funding rate.
It's like $40 million to $60 million per year.
And that's what our expectation is for 2014 and we expect to continue to do that in 2015.
Clearly our target at this point is to have our plan fully funded by somewhere in 2017 and we're well on track to do that.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America.
Of all the innovations that you're bringing to the market right now David what are you most uplifted about what do you think has the best ability to drive traffic to the center of the store? You said that the investments in the mills will be done around normal maintenance downtime.
But should we be planning for more maintenance downtime in the next couple of years as we model out? And then thirdly what are your thoughts on MLPs and their sutaibility for Graphic Packaging? New product side of the equation a couple of things I would tell you a level what's going on in Microwave that's clearly center of the store stuff and we're definitely winning in that space.
Our teams there are doing a really good job.
Mike talked about the corrugated or the strength transition.
The stuff that we're doing in the last four to five years or last three years or so things like Capri Sun and Tite-Pak transition these are all building long-term markets for our SUS.
And I like those a lot.
The other thing I like right now in Europe is that we've never had a platform over there to sell our SUS board.
And so in pizza even somewhat in cereal in cakes and crackers over there we've had an opportunity to do stuff that we're just getting started in we've already got a number of great wins in Europe because we've got a really strong manufacturing platform over there.
So those substitutions all make great sense to me.
Extra downtime in the mills no we're not going to see extended outings in our mills from a maintenance standpoint unless it would be something unplanned in the process because the problem with that is that we need the tons.
So it's not just the cost of taking the mill down but it's the fact that we run in pretty tight in extended downtime means we don't make the paper.
And that's not good if you're actually selling folding cartons.
So I would not expect it.
What we will do is we will probably realign some of the activities that we do at that point in time but that's going to be pretty transparent to the external community.
That's really more of a nit and nat for our mill guys.
And if Alan Nichols was on the call instead of working in Macon and West Monroe today he would tell you that all stuff was well within our bandwidth.
And then the third thing was what MLPs.
I have been pretty outspoken about the fact that Graphics is not a leader in the MLP stuff.
It's really difficult when you're as integrated as we are to manage the process with MLPs and split our virgin and restock.
But because we don't really look at the business that well that way.
I mean if there's any juice in that it's probably the bigger guys larger cap guys that have got more flexibility than we do and manage it.
So we're not actively evaluating MLP structures for Graphic Packaging.
In terms of incremental acquisition benefit I realize you have synergies from Benson but can you remind us what would be the amount of EBITDA that you'll bring into next year that you didn't incur this year because you've made the acquisitions forward through the year? $10 million to $12 million.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Do you know where working capital will come in this year what are you targeting for maybe? The key on this is where we're going to end up cash-wise.
And we're going to manage working capital to such an extent that we're going to deliver the $350 million in cash flow.
I think what you're going to see is that our ratios are going to be pretty much consistent with what we adjusted for seasonality for where we are in the third quarter.
But remember you need to adjust it for seasonality.
Generally our inventories are going to grow as we head out into 2015 because we're planning for really the beverage volume that's going to come later in the year.
So if you're planning for it you're going to see inventories grow you're going to see accounts receivable shrink because business volume is going down.
And you're going to see us achieve the $350 million in cash flow from operations as we manage both of those.
Dan is right.
We have to build board inventory in the fourth quarter to be able to meet the demand in beverage ramp-up in the first quarter as well as the increase in Europe.
So we will need to build it or otherwise we would not have sufficient board stocks as we got into the first quarter to do with that seasonality.
So you see that every year and we would be expect to be building board inventory.
I mean I'm talking 10 000 tons to 15 000 tons or something like that and we make 2.3 million tons.
So I mean it's not repressive but it needs to be done to manage the business or otherwise you get into a herky-jerky first quarter where you're up and down up and down trying to meet customer demand.
And we did that a couple of years and it was not particularly fulfilling.
David you talked about the new terms of the debt giving you a lot more flexibility around what you can do with the big cash flow profile.
Are there any restrictions that you have in place right now or are you going to essentially do whatever you want with the cash flow in the business now? The senior secured facility we just put in place which is the bulk of our debt profile find that once you dip below 3 times leverage you pretty much have all the flexibility you need to do whatever you want in terms of capital investment acquisitions or giving back value to shareholders as well.
We're going to close it off.
It's after our appointed hour and I'm sure there's other analysts callers you want to get to.
So we're going to let you go and then we'll talk to you all in February.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Stephanie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Graphic Packaging Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Brad Ankerholz Treasurer you may begin your conference.
Thanks Stephanie and welcome everybody to the Graphic Packaging Holding Company's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Call.
Commenting on results this morning will be David Scheible the company's Chairman President and CEO; Mike Doss the Chief Operating Officer; and Steve Scherger the Senior Vice President and CFO.
To help you follow along with today's call we have provided a slide presentation which you can access by clicking on the Webcasts and Presentations link on the Investors section of our website which is graphicpkg.com.
I would like to remind everyone that statements of our expectations plans estimates and beliefs regarding future performance and events constitute forward-looking statements.
Such statements are based on currently available information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's present expectations.
Information regarding these risks and uncertainties is contained in the company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements as such statements speak only as of the date on which they're made and the company undertakes no obligation to update such statements.
David I'll turn it over to you.
Thanks Brad.
Good morning everyone.
We had the best fourth quarter in the company's history.
Sales in our ongoing core business increased roughly 5.5% driven by acquisitions and modest share gains in our markets around the world.
Adjusted EBITDA and margin were record fourth quarter numbers for Graphic Packaging.
Adjusted EBITDA year-over-year increased 8.5% to $172 million and adjusted EBITDA margins increased 250 basis points to 17.2%.
Adjusted earnings per share increased 24% to $0.21 versus the prior year quarter.
Our full year results were also solid as we improved all of our key operating metrics.
Despite the severe weather that disrupted operations in the first quarter of last year sales on our ongoing business increased by almost 4%.
Adjusted EBITDA increased 6% and margins increased 180 basis points to 16.8% in 2014.
Full year adjusted EBITDA margins were also full year records for Graphic Packaging.
We generated over $350 million of free cash flow in 2014 which allowed us to execute our growth strategy by making strategic investments within the business and acquisitions to drive sales and earnings as well as continue to reduce our debt.
We ended the year at a net debt leverage ratio of just about 2.66x achieving our targeted range.
The balance sheet and financial flexibility has never been stronger so we have the wherewithal to invest in the business long-term and to return money to shareholders.
It's this financial strength and confidence in growth and cash generation of the business that led our Board of Directors to initiate a capital allocation plan which includes both a $0.05-per-share quarterly dividend and a $250 million share repurchase program.
Steve will go into more detail about this capital allocation plan but we're very pleased to have announced this in conjunction with our strong quarterly and full year results this morning.
We're committed to maximizing shareholder value through our balanced approach that combines profitable growth and returning capital to shareholders and the capital allocation plan is further evidence of that commitment.
We spent several years transforming this business into a pure-play global paperboard packaging company with both a clear top and bottom line growth strategy.
We've divested non-core assets and businesses to free up capital to be reinvested heavily in our core business particularly our mills and strengthen our balance sheet.
We've optimized our network and global converting facilities to better support our mills and customers.
We've implemented Lean and Six Sigma projects to shorten our supply chain and improve efficiencies across the organization.
We've built a business model that vertically integrates our low-cost mills with a network of highly efficient converting facilities.
Many important components of this transformation were achieved and 2014 was a very busy year.
Following the divestiture late in 2013 of our flexible business we sold our label businesses in February and our multi-wall bag business to Mondi in June.
In May we acquired the Benson Group which is a leading folding carton producer in the U.K.
and announced the acquisition of the folding carton and paperboard mill assets of Cascades' Norampac Division in December.
Earlier this week we completed the purchase of these Canadian assets.
In January we also acquired Rose City Printing and Packaging a 2-plant folding carton operation in the Pacific Northwest.
The divestitures effectively allowed us to focus all of our resources on paperboard packaging to serve our food beverage and consumer products customers globally.
The refocused footprint also has allowed us to rightsize our domestic support and overhead structure in Q4 of last year.
This will deliver margin-enhancing benefits as we head into 2015.
During 2014 the proceeds from the sale of our non-core units were utilized to further strengthen our global folding carton footprint.
The acquisition of the Benson Group greatly expanded our folding carton business in Europe by broadening our customer base and our product deck options while also providing access to important store-brand market.
Benson integration is progressing on plan and we remain comfortable with the target performance improvements of $68 million for this year.
Cascades box acquisition provides a vertically integrated platform of both mills and folding carton converting in Canada.
This is a little more complex acquisition than something like Benson so it will take some time to optimize and build the business in Canada.
But the acquisition puts the initial assets in place to capitalize on a geographic region where our participation today is low.
Rose City Printing and Packaging is a strategic bolt-on converting acquisition that will enhance our footprint on the West Coast and allows for further integration of our SUS and CRB production out of our Santa Clara California mill.
The acquisition includes 2 state-of-the-art folding carton converting facilities located just outside of Portland Oregon and a management team with a great reputation that has consistently delivered results.
Mike will provide further color around these 2 new acquisitions in a moment but we're excited about the opportunity of integration in 2015.
During the fourth quarter we successfully accessed the debt markets to improve liquidity reduced our interest costs and extended our maturities.
Steve will cover the new bond issue and the amend and extend transition shortly.
Finally in the first half of the year we completed the last 2 of 8 secondary stock offerings which allowed our long-time private holders to sell their remaining stock and this increased our public float by nearly 100% of the outstanding shares.
This has dramatically improved the liquidity and broadened the ownership base of our stock.
Looking forward I think we've done a good job positioning Graphic Packaging by investing for future growth and optimizing our assets around customer needs.
We're particularly excited about the Canadian Rose City acquisitions which will further strengthen our North American presence.
We continue to be pleased with the European expanded footprint and see further opportunities for growth there.
End-market demand across some of our core markets will remain challenging there's no question but it's our job to manage through this and grow the business in any environment.
We think we have created a good model with a unique strategy to do exactly that.
Both pricing and inflation should moderate in 2015 and we see plenty of opportunities to reinvest in this business to drive share gains and margin improvement.
We estimate currency headwinds could be close to $20 million or so in 2015 in light of our larger international footprint.
But lower oil prices natural gas costs acquisition synergies and performance improvements should again drive improved year-on-year results on EBITDA.
Later Steve will give you detailed 2015 guidance but I'll jump ahead and tell you on the important free cash flow metric we expect to generate between $350 million and $375 million of free cash flow.
I'm now going to turn the call over to Mike Doss our Chief Operating Officer to discuss the operating results in greater detail.
Thanks David.
Volumes in our global paperboard packaging business were up slightly in the fourth quarter.
The increase was driven by our European expansion which was partially offset by modest declines in our U.S.
business.
As David indicated the integration of Europe is progressing well and we've had a number of key wins in this market.
Last quarter we told you about the first major SUS conversion contract with a big U.K.-based food group in the frozen pizza category.
We also told you there were tremendous conversion opportunities across Europe particularly in SUS which offers superior characteristics in the areas of strength printability and free stock compared to competing substrates available in Europe.
In the fourth quarter we finalized the supply agreement to provide SUS packaging to a U.K.-based breakfast cereal manufacturer in the quantity north of 10 000 tons annually.
It's clear that our European strategy is gaining traction and these wins further support the internalization of our paperboard mill tons.
We have also seen positive trends in the beer business in Europe and emerging markets where the movement towards premiumization is leading to strong demand for our packaging machines and cartons.
Demand across our -- the U.S.
consumer products and beverage folding carton markets remain mixed in the fourth quarter but consistent with trends throughout the year.
ACNielsen reported low to mid-single-digit declines in the U.S.
cereal dry foods and frozen pizza categories in the fourth quarter.
Frozen pizza continues to be the most volatile of all 3 declining over 5% in the fourth quarter after being down just 1% in the third quarter.
Our volumes across the food and consumer products markets only declined modestly.
We outperformed in both frozen pizza and dry food markets while our share remained flat in cereal.
New product and channel sales are supporting this business and we are encouraged with the trends in new product development.
Looking at our U.S.
beverage markets end-market demand trends were mixed but consistent with expectations.
ACNielsen reported a 2.1% decline in U.S.
soft drink market in the quarter a slight improvement from the third quarter.
As we discussed in our last earnings call much of the decline is coming from on premise and single-serve plastic bottles and the majority of our volume is multipack take-home cans.
It's our Fridge Vendor 12-packs of the national brands that drive take-home volume in the CSD category and we are very well positioned in that segment of the business.
End-market trends in the U.S.
beer market improved and turned positive in the fourth quarter up 2.2% according to ACNielsen.
Craft beer continues to be the fastest-growing submarket but it's still relatively small compared to the big beer market.
Our new Tite-Pak solution for glass bottle packaging continues to make inroads in both the craft and big beer markets and new products and innovation are driving our overall U.S.
beer business.
The operating side of our business had another very strong quarter.
Our mills ran very well across the system and we set daily production records at the Kalamazoo Macon and Battle Creek mills in the quarter.
We took our planned biannual cold outage at our West Monroe mill in the quarter and this naturally impacted our production on a year-over-year basis.
Despite this fact our overall production level was up in the fourth quarter and our yield improved 1% year-over-year.
Pricing across the business was up $16 million in the fourth quarter and over $78 million for the full year.
Input cost inflation was less than $1 million in the fourth quarter.
Increases in external board principally SBS and energy were largely offset by decreases in secondary fiber and chemicals.
In addition to the productivity improvements we saw reduction in energy costs from the biomass boiler in Macon and the capital we reinvested back into the mills over the past 2 years continues to generate a nice return.
We generated $12 million of performance-based improvements in the quarter and nearly $58 million for the full year.
We're proud of this overall performance given the weather-related issues we experienced in Q1.
The majority of this came from the mills and European synergies with the primary drivers being procurement energy operating efficiencies and fixed costs.
As David said we positioned ourselves well for future growth but let me give you a few more details with respect to 2015.
Heading into the year our mill backlogs are modestly better than last year and we expect both commodity inflation and pricing to moderate significantly from the increases we saw in 2014.
Continued synergies in Europe performance gains from our continuous improvement and strategic purchasing initiatives and SG&amp;A reduction should drive EBITDA and margin growth.
Look.
We're really excited about our 2 recent acquisitions: Rose City Packaging a West Coast-based converting business and Cascades' Norampac paperboard assets a Canadian-based mill and converting business which on a combined basis has net sales of approximately $225 million and LTM EBITDA of $15 million.
Over the next 24 months we expect to integrate approximately 20 000 to 25 000 tons of graphic paperboard and generate $10 million to $15 million in synergies from the 2 acquisitions.
However to achieve this synergy goal we will take actions predominantly in Canada in 2015 that will likely result in an initial reduction of approximately $3 million to $5 million in EBITDA versus the LTM results.
So working off 2014 numbers the net incremental EBITDA looks to be approximately $10 million in 2015 another $15 million in 2016 and another $5 million in 2017 for a total run rate of approximately $30 million by 2017.
As we've told you previously we can operate this business on roughly $200 million of capital spending with about $100 million to $110 million for ongoing maintenance.
That's about what we spent in 2014.
In 2015 we expect CapEx to be higher due to another exciting energy project with terrific projected returns.
This is roughly a $30 million cogen energy project for our West Monroe Louisiana mill which will be constructed in 2015 and is expected to come online in early 2016.
We estimate the annual savings upon project completion to be over $10 million per year and expect it will take the mill almost entirely off the electrical grid.
We think this is a very worthy project.
Much like some of our other larger capital projects in the past we'll keep you informed on the expected size payback and timing of this project.
So with that I'll turn it over to us Steve Scherger our Chief Financial Officer who will take you through our financials and outlook for 2015 in greater detail.
Steve? Thanks Mike and good morning.
It is a pleasure to be speaking with you this morning and I look forward to building relationships with the investment community.
Let me begin by thanking Dan Blount for his many years of leadership as our CFO and for his personal guidance and counsel over the past 4 months focused on ensuring a smooth transition.
As Mike and David have shared both Q4 and full year results showed strong improvement versus prior year.
2014 results established new records for the business along several key metrics and we're well positioned to improve performance again in 2015.
Consistent with past practices when I refer to EBITDA net income and EPS today I'll be referring to adjusted numbers.
Results have been adjusted for nonrecurring items including divestitures post-acquisition integration activities and capital structure expenses.
During the fourth quarter we incurred $26.3 million of nonrecurring charges impacting EBITDA $14.4 million of which relates to costs associated with the refinancing retirement of our 2018 bonds and the amend and extend of our bank agreement; $11.9 million relates to the sale of our labels and flexible packaging businesses the acquisition of Cascades and Rose City along with our Europe integration activities.
Focusing on Q4 results our reported net sales were down $74 million compared to Q4 2013.
Excluding net sales from divested assets net sales from our ongoing business were up 5.6%.
EBITDA increased 8.5% to $171.8 million as margin improved to 17.2% from 14.7% a year ago.
Excluding earnings from divested assets EBITDA from our ongoing business was up 13%.
The increase was driven by higher pricing and performance gains which was partially offset by moderate labor inflation and FX headwinds.
Net income increased $11.5 million to over $70 million.
EPS for the quarter was $0.21 up $0.04 from a year ago.
Focusing briefly on the Q4 sales bridge versus prior year price contributed $16.4 million in the quarter.
The price benefit is lower than the prior 3 quarters as price began overlapping with increases from Q4 of 2013.
Mike mentioned the volume improvement in the ongoing business which was driven by our growth in Europe.
Before turning to the overall full year results let me take a moment to discuss Q4 and full year tax rates.
The effective rate of 26% in Q4 and 34% for the full year was driven by the recognition of a multiyear look-back of federal and state R&amp;D tax credits along with favorable R&amp;D tax legislation that was extended in Q4.
Since some of the tax benefits were multiyear in nature we expect our 2015 tax rate to be in the 36% to 38% range based on known tax legislation and our projected international earnings growth.
At the end of 2014 the NOL balance stood at $712 million.
We do not expect once again to be a meaningful cash taxpayer in 2015.
Commenting of the full year results.
Reported net sales were down $238 million.
Excluding divestitures sales from our ongoing business increased 3.7%.
EBITDA increased $41 million or 6% to $710.8 million.
Excluding divestitures EBITDA of the ongoing business grew $59 million or 9%.
Earnings per share were up $0.20 to $0.72 for the year.
The key drivers for the year were price and performance.
Price was $78 million.
We recovered prior year input cost inflation and market paperboard prices flowed through carton pricing.
Performance was $58 million and was very solid given the poor weather issues in Q1.
Commodity inflation of $40 million was driven primarily by higher energy costs and external board purchases.
Other inflation primarily labor and benefits was $35 million in line with expectations.
Cash flow for 2014 was strong.
The net cash from operations totaled a record $527 million or 15% more than 2013.
Excluding M&amp;A and capital market activities we generated over $350 million of free cash flow for the year.
Please note that this amount included a onetime $27 million federal grant for the Macon biomass boiler project that was completed in 2013.
We ended the year with $1.9 billion of net debt leaving our net leverage ratio at 2.66x at the bottom end of our targeted 2.5x to 3x range.
During Q4 we improved our debt profile through an amend and extend of our bank facility and refinancing of our 7 7/8% 2018 bonds with new 4 7/8% bonds maturing in 2022.
The benefits of these transactions include a $10 million reduction in annual interest expense extended maturities of 1 year for the bank agreement and 4 years on the bonds enhanced covenants and enhanced liquidity through an upsized revolver to $1.25 billion.
At year-end our average cost of debt was 3.1% and our domestic liquidity was over $1 billion.
Given the company's strong financial performance and outlook the Board of Directors has approved the initiation of a $0.05-per-share quarterly dividend along with the $250 million share repurchase program.
The first quarterly dividend will be paid on April 5 2015 to holders of record as of March 15 2015.
The dividend will be approximately $16 million per quarter based on current shares outstanding.
Regarding the share repurchase program management supported by outside experts will take an opportunistic and very disciplined approach to determine the timing and quantity of repurchases.
We look forward to sharing the results of the repurchase program with you on a quarterly basis.
Turning to 2015 guidance.
We expect continued improvement in overall financial performance.
As of now we expect both pricing and commodity input inflation to be modest in the 0 to $10 million range.
We expect labor and benefits inflation to be in the $30 million to $35 million range and performance improvements to be in the $70 million to $80 million range.
Capital spending is expected to be between $220 million and $230 million as we pursue the energy cogen project in Louisiana that Mike mentioned.
We will continue to fund our pension plans in the $40 million to $60 million range and we expect interest expense to be in the $70 million to $80 million range.
As such we expect our free cash flow to be between $350 million and $375 million for the year.
Considering that the 2014 cash flow figure included $27 million from the biomass tax grant we expect to generate 5% to 10% increase in cash flow year-over-year.
This level of cash generation along with our ample liquidity and leverage allow us to continue to invest in the business pursue acquisitions and execute a disciplined capital allocation plan.
The remainder of our guidance is contained in the presentation on our website.
If you have any questions we'll be glad to address them during Q&amp;A.
Thank you for your time this morning.
I will now turn the call back to the operator.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question for Steve or Mike or Dave could you go through your synergy targets and earnings targets again for Cascades and Rose City? And I'm looking specifically at Slide 8 where you say net incremental EBITDA to Graphic Packaging will be $10 million in '15 $20 million to $25 million in '16 and $25 million up to $30 million in '17.
By '17 is that $25 million to $30 million the accumulation of incremental benefits? Or each of these is incremental so I'm tacking on $25 million on top of $20 million on top of $10 million? George this is Mike.
I wanted to just clarify that.
Your read is correct.
It's $10 million in '15 $25 million run rate in '16 and $30 million run rate in '17.
So you don't add them all on top of one another.
We're trying to just show you that it takes approximately 24 months for us to get the full run rate of the synergies for those 2 acquisitions.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And then recognizing that you're not in Canada and you maybe don't want to talk too much about this in a broad forum what are some of the complications I think is how you framed it in terms of the integration of Cascades within Graphic Packaging that we should be aware of? Any key operational mile markers that we should be aware of that would dictate whether you're going to be successful or not with your synergy and earnings goal there? Yes I think the way to think about that George is there's paperboard mills involved.
And when we're driving synergies through paperboard mills as we saw when we did the Altivity transaction it just takes us longer to get those synergies to the bottom line.
And we like the converting assets we just purchased and we think there's some opportunity to scale and drive efficiency through those.
But there'll be a little dislocation for the first 12 months as we look to optimize the mills into our system and really figure things out.
You have to remember we just closed on that transaction yesterday.
So there's been a limit to how much true diligence and planning we could do with the other side just given the fact that we just closed.
Hey George you got to ensure -- whenever we do an acquisition that includes the mills you can well imagine we have a lot more outside scrutiny by government agencies.
And therefore there's only so much you can you can do.
In a bolt-on with the converting businesses we can get pretty deep pretty quickly; mills not so much.
So we have a very good understanding of what we're getting up there but in some ways we're going to need to do some work.
Additionally a lot of it is -- some of it is board integration.
We're going to have to build -- we're going to -- we'll have some capacity buildout in some of our CRB mills to help integrate some of those activities even in Rose City where there's some outside tons being purchased that we will integrate into our mills.
Those just take a little bit longer.
So if you think about the difference between sort of what we did in Europe which we're all converting versus when we did the Altivity thing it took a little longer.
But the rate of synergy is pretty good.
You took -- $30 million of synergy -- or $30 million worth of EBITDA for a total purchase of $110 million that's a real decent return for Graphic Packaging.
Research Division</strong> No I mean that makes perfect sense David again on the mill side.
I get what you're saying.
Last one and I'll turn it over.
And 2 of your peers obviously recently announced plans to merge.
And one of the things that they've talked about -- and we've discussed in our own researches that will now allow them to offer the full suite of boxboard grades to the folding carton market.
Is that important? Do you feel like you need to fill in on the SBS or SUS side? Or does Cascades actually give you sufficient amount where you don't see that as a strategic issue to contend with? So I'm assuming you're talking about the Rock...
Research Division</strong> The Rock-Vaco [ph].
Yes.
The -- what I've always said about offering all 3 grades is that we thought it was predominantly a cost option for us because we could optimize back through the board mills if you had all 3 grades right? Never really said it was a customer deficiency.
Those customers -- those end-use markets are pretty well-defined.
And of course we've got great great supply partners with our current SBS guys and I would think they would have an incentive also not to want to lose share to a new competitor.
So I'm unconcerned about that part of the equation.
The -- I like our current position.
CUK is a great grade and I know they believe that as well which is I'm sure what drove a good part of that acquisition.
But I don't -- I think when you have strong competitors overall you end up in a good market position.
And so we kind of looked at that as a net positive for Graphic as we go down the road.
We know both of those guys are great competitors they're well-run companies.
Putting them together will take some complications.
They'll get that done but that makes us stronger as well.
So I don't -- I didn't -- we did not see that as a negative for Graphic.
Your next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W Baird.
Research Division</strong> Steve welcome to the call.
Thank you.
Research Division</strong> First off on the dividend based on the current stock price it's a little over 1% yield.
Maybe can you outline the thought process behind how you got to that dividend payout? And also your philosophy on the dividend in terms of perhaps growing it over time.
Yes.
I mean I'll take part of it and let Steve do a part of it.
We did a fair amount of analysis.
We used outside advisers in the process.
And then fortunately we have a fair amount of analysts like yourself that called us that were not short of opinions and insight into what would be appropriate.
And we certainly put that into the cauldron as well.
We wanted to make sure that the amount was enough to be meaningful.
It seemed not reasonable to put -- to just do a nominal without it being significant.
And if you look at where the industry is and when people initiate we're certainly in the upper end of that percentage.
It gives us some opportunity over time to expand our dividend but it also gives us enough dry powder to be able to have cash flow for share buyback in the appropriate times in dips or to make sure that we can -- that our management incentive plans are not dilutive to shareholders.
We wanted to be able to have that kind of flexibility.
And then as Mike said we've got some good capital projects and ongoing acquisitions.
So it's a balance of the cash flow that we're going to have to invest back in the business and return to shareholders.
So we debated in great detail with our board I mean it is a very very informed and experienced board.
And we came out with a number that made sense for us at least at initiation stage.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as it relates to the weather disruption for the first quarter of 2014 is there any reason that you would not be able to capture what you lost from weather during the first quarter in particular? And can you kind of remind us as to what that number was on EBITDA? And also Steve if you can just given the company's growth in Europe if you have a sensitivity in terms of foreign exchange euro versus dollar? And the impact on EBITDA that would be helpful also.
Sure.
I'd be glad to and thank you.
Relative to the FX as David mentioned there will be some headwinds and it'll be a function of translation and transaction-based.
And of course we don't predict exchange rates.
But at current rates it's a $15 million to $20 million headwind that we will manage through.
And as David said we've got some deflation activities and other things that we certainly will apply against that as we continue to improve the earnings year-over-year.
I think as you look back on last year barring any additional weather activities that was a $10 million to $15 million type impact in the quarter.
And it should be something that would be a net positive for the coming quarter assuming nothing occurs of substance here over the remainder of the quarter.
And I think we -- if you remember I think we've said that we expect performance -- I'm sorry this year's performance improves about $60 million.
That included the $15 million of first quarter numbers -- first quarter headwinds that we had.
So our target for this year is reasonably in that $75 million range.
That includes the integration activities and costs that we're going to get out of Benson.
It includes the add-back of the $15 million.
I announced in the fourth quarter that we had taken an SG&amp;A reduction at corporate level across because of the smaller footprint and that was probably $10 million.
So if you look at it I think the $75 million in performance sort of target it makes perfectly good sense.
And some of that is going to be eaten up in this $20 million worth of FX.
But that's still -- having said that guys we've always said that we sort of -- our high level we grow the business 2% to 3% on the top line and 5% to 6% on the bottom line.
We're not walking off of any of those kinds of numbers.
We're going to have to -- we will find a way to improve and grow the business such that we could generate those kinds of financial improvements.
And that's kind of what we're expecting to do and you saw that in our cash flow guidance.
Your next question comes from the line of Debbie Jones with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering could you talk a bit about the exposure to Mexico? I mean Mexico is obviously growing pretty fast.
Imports or exports into the U.S.
are expected to continue to grow.
Do you think that there's an opportunity for you guys that could capitalize on that going forward? And how much is that a priority for you? Debbie it's Mike.
I would characterize it as we've talked in the past that is a priority for us.
And we continue to look for ways to do that both organically and inorganically.
As we had mentioned on a prior call we actually were in the final stages of a potential acquisition.
And the multiples just got too rich and we walked away from that deal.
But that remains a key priority for us and we're looking at a number of different options.
And we certainly would like to increase our position in Mexico.
We have one plant there now.
Our customers are moving there.
They're building out factories and we think it's a good place for us to be.
And Debbie we had a good year in Mexico.
Overall our sales were good there.
We made good money there.
Mike's right.
It is difficult in Mexico to make sure you know what you're buying.
So there's a little bit of a pig-and-poke mentality.
Graphic is big enough to be able to make that acquisition and know that there's going to be some mistakes along that line but we're not stupid enough to give away shareholder value.
So we're going to continue to look hard in Mexico.
But you have to lean over your skis to be able to buy down there.
It's just really difficult to figure out exactly what you're buying from an EBITDA standpoint.
So I think we'll get something done in Mexico for sure in the next 18 months because it just makes sense for us.
But we're going to be smart about that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just on the new products side of the equation and you addressed this on the last call.
Just wondering if you could talk about what you're most excited about this year what you think will have the biggest impact for GPK.
We have a couple of things that we're pretty excited about.
Of course we profiled at length our Tite-Pak innovation for beverage containers which is really getting some positive traction both with the craft brewers as well as the big beer customers.
We also have some press tray options that are used in our SUS paperboard that can replace CPET trays.
We're working on some of those things and applications and seeing some success.
And then I'd also say that our microwave business continues to perform well.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with BMO Capital Markets.
Dave Mike Steve.
First question I had just a little bit of a follow-up on FX.
Are there any -- is there another kind of layer of potential FX issues just as we think about say European carton board suppliers particularly the Scandinavians maybe having a little more of a currency advantage now? Well I mean certainly they will have the ability to sell here with the tailwind of currency.
But you and I both know you plan a business around hedging and currency that's a short-term plan right? Because ultimately just like it's going one way it's going to go the other.
Your projections or mine relative to oil and the impact of that with foreign exchange says it's really difficult to build a long-term supply chain.
On top of which you're not really selling board.
None of our customers actually buy board.
When this stuff shows up it needs to be printed cut glued and ready to be installed.
So at the end of the day unless you're buying board that goes through a large converting operation like Graphic or Rock-Vaco [ph] then you're selling through a whole bunch of small independent guys.
Not that you can't do it but these are not sheets of 8.5 by 11 things.
The -- each one of the -- as you look at the -- if you look at the number of the complexity that goes into rolls that we sell in our own operations let alone outside it's a really difficult process to do Mark.
And then you still got U.S.
logistics.
You can get it to the coast but check out the East Coast.
There's no folding carton business there.
So you've got to get it from one place to the other.
So yes it's certainly an impact -- transitory impact potentially but as far as being in the folding carton business and planning for or being concerned about a big onslaught of board from Europe showing in the United States that is not what keeps me up at night.
Yes okay.
And Dave I'll just kind of follow on that.
I just was curious as to whether you're seeing anymore Scandinavian pressure over in the U.K.
market.
The euro has declined a lot against the British pound.
Hey we're a net buyer over there so that's -- that's not a negative for us right Mark? Okay.
Second question.
Can you give us some sense of where you're picking up volume domestically? Which markets? Yes and we don't talk a lot about those kinds of things just because it's really not in our best interest.
What I would say is we had a great quarter and year in frozen pizza and dry foods.
The beer craft was good for us as well.
So I'd kind of leave it at that.
Okay.
And Dave the corrugated box volumes have picked up pretty nicely in the last 4 5 months.
Over half of what goes in the box is -- are beer and food which you provide the packaging for.
So what do you think is going on here? We got a pickup in corrugated but we don't really seem to have much pickup in the stuff that would go into corrugated yet.
Yes I mean -- I think Mark you're -- you know that as well as I do that the predominant part of the U.S.
economy that's picked up has been more the industrial side of the equation right? Those corrugated boxes that are moving products to and from a Ford plant or the -- or Amazon online shopping and so on and so forth and there's not a lot of food.
I mean it's -- you and I both know there's not a lot of food being delivered by drones.
So at the end of the day we're not seeing that kind of pickup on an aligned basis with corrugated.
Having said that as Mike said our backlogs are good in our core business.
So it's incrementally stronger than we saw first quarter of last year so we're seeing some improvement on that.
But corrugated tends to be the tip of the spear.
They're going to see -- when the economy -- from the general economy construction manufacturing when it goes up they're going to see a much bigger improvement than the food and beverage part of the equation.
And of course when the economy struggles we don't see that -- the level of declines that occurs in that business as well.
So to some extent it's really different macro trends in those 2 -- in those businesses.
Okay.
And then the last question I have Dave is just on accretion once you integrate more tonnage from the mills.
From Slide 8 it looks like you assumed something in the $500 to $600 a ton range for the accretion from each incremental ton that you can move forward through a carton plant.
Is that a good number? Mark this is Steve.
We tend to think that about more in the $300 range.
And then there's other synergies that we drive through the system.
And so what you're seeing there is kind of a cumulative impact that we would secure over the next several years.
But we tend to -- the $500 you referenced we would use a number closer to $300 on a board-only basis.
And then we would pursue of course other synergies SG&amp;A other supply chain activities optimization of assets in terms of where we run things and the like.
Freight will be a bigger part of the Canadian thing because as you well know a number of our plants are actually as close to the market as the CRB mill that we're purchasing.
So we'll optimize around those mills that mill network and we'll pick up some freight.
And which freight of course is -- end up traditionally being mostly we keep it some of it is of course customer freight that the customers will have advantage on and sourcing as well with 2 additional paperboard mills.
Okay.
I have actually one other question.
You mentioned Tite-Pak.
I think when we were down there in December you mentioned that you were in the -- one of the Yuengling breweries but not other.
Have you picked up any kind of incremental wins since then? Well as you know Mark we don't talk about specific customers.
But what I would say is the traction we spoke with you about when you visited continues to be very positive.
Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On the raw material side for '15 what are you going to be paying more for in terms of like the inputs that are actually going up for you? Can you talk about those? Well for one outside-purchased board and -- paper because there were some price increases throughout 2014.
So we'll see some incremental on that.
And then probably the biggest impact will be wood.
Wood continues to see some inflation.
It's really agnostic to what the macro is doing.
In many ways there's some outside pressure in the United States because Europe subsidizes the burning of our wood to meet their ridiculous sustainability goals in Europe.
And therefore that puts some pressure on the wood baskets that incrementally drive wood prices up in the Southeast.
So as long as Europe has plenty of cash to support those subsidies I would expect that to continue.
Beyond that it's going to be pretty flat.
And I think I said in my -- in our notes we expect actual input inflation in the year to be kind of modest.
Yes modest.
It'd be $5 million or something like that net-on-net basis.
Alex this is Steve.
The only thing I might add to that is to David's point is freight from -- excluding the fuel surcharge component supply-demand from a freight perspective we've seen increases there.
We would expect to see it relative to rules of the road supply-demand there.
So...
Line-haul rates.
Line-haul rates themselves actually have inflation.
Obviously some of that's offset by fuel surcharges.
But for example fuel surcharges are 20% of the overall cost of freight.
So it's just -- that's another area underneath a number where we would see an increase for example.
I'll tell you too Alex and we don't want to get too far for you but Mike is on a tear here to look at our entire warehouse and freight distribution system.
Graphic still spends way too much money on storing and moving things around and warehousing.
So over the next couple of years we'll be spending not some insignificant funds but to take out a fair amount of costs that are irresidence in our business by virtue of our warehouse footprint.
So that freight and those kinds of things inure to our benefit we'll have to spend some money to do it but there's lots of cost opportunities in this business.
And he and his team is -- specifically supply chain have got some significant programs to take those kinds of costs out of our business.
But until we do that we're going to see incremental increases and just moving our stuff around.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I appreciate that color.
And just one more for me.
On the buyback of $250 million I know it's opportunistic but is the goal to get it done in '15? No.
I think that $250 million is going to be over a period of time.
First of all I mean I want to keep some dry powder available to do these bolt-on acquisitions and -- in -- on our business.
So I don't -- wouldn't do -- it'll take a couple of years.
I will say we'll certainly have a floor.
For sure we're going to go out and buy back the shares that would be dilutive from management comp and -- so that our shareholders are aren't losing ground on that.
So for sure that -- that's probably 30 million to 35 million or something like that we expect.
Beyond that we'll watch the dips and be -- we've got an outside adviser that's going to help us on the process and try to be smart about what we do from a buyback standpoint.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I just had a follow-up on George's question.
The large competitors of yours that are merging or have announced their intention to merge they've touted the benefits not only of being in the 3 boxboard grades but also being integrated in the containerboard and maybe being -- having an integrated containerboard-boxboard offering might allow them to gain share with CPG customers.
And I'm wondering if you think that's something that you -- is that something that you see in the marketplace? Or is that something that you would consider? Is having a containerboard offering something that you think would give you an advantage in the marketplace? Yes.
So what that looks like is you have a bigger basket to lower your price on I guess.
I mean the guy that buys paperboard and buys containerboard are 2 completely different parts of the organization.
So a bigger basket allows you I guess to reduce the price in one sector to sell something else.
And if that math works I guess that -- then that's what you would do.
Hard-pressed for me to see how price reductions in that really work but that's really the advantage.
Otherwise no customer really comes to you anymore and says "We want one shop for one-stop shopping." I mean that is just yesterday yester-tech stuff.
That's really not the way things are doing.
You'll see the focus seems to work.
So I think the bigger opportunity there as I said is the opportunity across multiple grades to optimize back your paperboard mills and there's great synergy in that process.
And I would expect them -- and in fact I think they announced that they were going to do that.
But I don't think the customer offering -- broader basket of customer is really a big competitive advantage in the process.
If you want to cut the price just cut the price.
So I mean you don't really need more tools to do that with.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then regarding North American volumes I'm just wondering how they trended in the 3 months of the quarter and then into January and February.
I mean from your comments it seems like there's been a bit of an acceleration but you had easier comps in terms of weather last year.
I just -- I wonder if you could just give any more color around kind of the volume recovery if any that you're seeing in North America.
Q4-on-Q4 was relatively flat.
We were up a little bit because our acquisitions as we kind of outlined on the waterfalls.
As we headed into January here our backlogs as we said were modestly stronger.
I wouldn't characterize them as being any more strengthening than that.
I mean they were steady but I wouldn't say that they were up materially from where -- what we saw last year.
Net of the weather.
Net of the weather.
Your next question comes from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> The Cascades business was previously offering with somewhat depressed margins.
How much of that is tied to the cost structure or a lack of pull-through on the demand front? Both.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Would you be able to kind of parse it out? Well I'm not going to parse -- I don't think it makes a lot of a lot of sense to parse it out.
Because at the end of the day we've got to solve both of those problems right? The advantage of the integration activity is that we're going to change -- we'll improve the mix and we'll improve the flow of board through that entire business and that will manifest itself in better margins.
Some of it will be yield some of it will be efficiency and some of it will be in the carton plants as well.
So what I would simply say is as we look at that integration synergy we absolutely believe there -- that in that business there's no reason we can't be at the same kind of margins that we are in our CRB business.
Nothing we've seen which suggests we can't do that but it will be a combination of improving the kinds of things that we do every single day.
And that's why Phil it takes a little longer to do it.
That's why we're projecting over a 24-month period of time.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Very helpful.
And does your synergy target account for any ability to untap some of that low-cost pulp capacity you guys highlighted at your Analyst Day? And will this acquisition limit your open-market purchases on the SBAS [ph] front? I know it's not quite SBS but it's SBS-like.
Yes it won't really change our -- we'll do some optimizations out of that mill.
We'll have a chance to really look at Jonquiere.
Look we know Jonquiere is not a top quartile mill.
I mean we're not idiots so we saw -- we know that it's an expensive mill to operate and we'll optimize that mix and look at our grades but we're still going to be a big purchaser of SBS on the outside.
Relative to SUS there's integration opportunities within the Cascades but also within Rose City.
They're -- they bought a fair amount of tons out there and I don't know why but not from Graphic Packaging.
So we'll change that approach for sure.
And so yes we're going to take some of the pulp -- excess pulp capacity at our West Monroe and use it.
Additionally the Santa Clara board mill makes a grade out there on the West Coast that is -- that we use for a lot of our craft beer.
It's a hybrid between CRB and SUS and that will allow us to build that board mill up out there.
And that's a real positive for Graphic.
It's a nice ecosystem on the West Coast if you sort of think about the converting network between Oroville which is -- we purchased about 3 or 4 years ago now.
And in this one we've got a pretty good ecosystem around the Santa Clara board mill out there on the West Coast which is incredibly important.
Because as Mark Wilde said earlier you want to protect yourself from a carton standpoint from imported -- somebody taking a scud on imported board from whatever wherever based on currency flux and this allows us to do that.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then how are you guys thinking about M&amp;A at least for this year? Are your hands full at this point? You -- is it going to be more of a '16 event? Or are you going to be opportunistic this year? Every time I say we aren't going to do something we announce another deal right? Is that kind of the way we've been? So Graphic -- we are a serial buyer and seller and I -- we just have to sort of get over that.
And the fact of the matter is if there's something out there that looks like it's going to be accretive certainly as accretive as these 2 acquisitions are going to be then we will do it again.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last one for me.
The inflation number Steve you highlighted the 0 to $10 million number is that just input cost inflation? I know the last call you guys kind of fleshed out input cost inflation as well as labor and wages all other inflations.
Can you help me parse that out for '15? Yes I'd be glad to.
Yes that is just input commodity cost inflation that equates to the $40 million that we saw this year for those items.
That's the 0 to $10 million.
And then the other inflation which is primarily labor and benefits where we saw roughly $35 million we would see $30 million to $35 million again there.
So you've got 2 separate inflation numbers that accumulate into the total for us.
Your last question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> One one-off question and to some degree was something that Mark was asking on.
When we look at SUS as it's produced here in the States what are its relative merits versus something like fresh fiberboard over in Europe? And why does it -- or why do you think it will continue to gain share versus that other grade? George it really has to do with the strength characteristics strength and tear characteristics of the SUS paperboard relative to anything else that's really available on the market.
It holds up really well in wet environments it also holds up very well in frozen environments.
And the basis weights of that paperboard when compared to other competitive offerings are very very solid.
Meaning that you can use a lighter-weight caliper to get the same effect.
So that's really what makes it cost competitive on a global basis.
I mean I know you don't want to get too technical on the process but you got to remember the Fiberlink is totally different on pine than on recycled or on bleach.
So the tear characteristics are materially different and so are the ability to hold heavier products.
If you took a CRB and you wrapped it around a 24-pack of beer you wouldn't get it from their store to your car.
So the fact of the matter is there are end-use applications that work great for that and that's what we tend to.
We don't use CUK in areas where it makes sense to run CRB.
But CUK has a very broad range of applications that it can be great across the 2 other substrates.
Research Division</strong> Yes I mean I'll take it offline but I thought the fiberboard would be more analogous to SUS in terms of being virgin-based and the like and having therefore the fiber link but...
Folding box -- you mean folding box board? That's got a big recycle -- yes.
Research Division</strong> Yes no -- I mean the Scandinavians make this fresh fiberboard which I thought was more virgin-based and I didn't think it was a recycled grade but...
It is.
It is George.
But you've got hardwood and softwood fibers there and so you're back into this whole strength and tear question.
Okay.
They're telling me we're done.
So we'll get back to work and talked to you again in the next quarter.
Thanks for helping.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Rob and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Graphic Packaging First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Brad Ankerholz VP and Treasurer you may begin your conference.
Thanks Rob and welcome everybody to the Graphic Packaging Holding Company's first quarter 2015 earnings call.
Commenting on results this morning are David Scheible the Company's Chairman President and CEO; Mike Doss our Chief Operating Officer; and Steve Scherger the Senior Vice President and CFO.
To help you follow along with today's call we have provided a slide presentation which can be accessed by clicking on the Webcasts and Presentations link on our Investors section of our Web site which is graphicpkg.com.
I would like to remind everyone the statements of our expectations plans estimates and beliefs regarding future performance and events constitute forward-looking statements.
Such statements are based on currently available information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's present expectations.
Information regarding these risks and uncertainties is contained in the Company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements as such statements speak only as of the date on which they're made and the company undertakes no obligation to update such statements.
David I'll turn it to you.
Thanks Brad.
Good morning everyone.
We had solid first quarter and results were in line with our expectations.
We continue to execute well in a difficult and changing operating environment.
We produced over 20 000 more tons in our U.S.
paperboard mills and sold nearly 57 000 more tons through our global system compared to the first quarter of last year.
Sales on our ongoing businesses increased by about 5% in the quarter and were driven predominantly by acquisitions new product launches and some sub-straight substitution.
Comparing against Q1 of last year our adjusted EBITDA increased by 24 million benefiting from our global performance initiatives and of course lapping up $15 million weather related impact in last year's first quarter.
We've invested in the past several years transforming the business into pure play global paperboard packaging company with what we believe is a clear growth strategy.
We think the first quarter of '15 was a good example of our ability to deliver top and bottom-line growth in the pace of foreign currency headwinds and what was a pretty challenging period for many of our customers in end use markets particularly here in the U.S.
Many of you know the conditions across the U.S.
improved in beverage markets have been difficult for some time so this quarter was nothing new.
Consumers are managing spending very closely and buying only what they need and some of their preferences are changing.
Fresh and healthier choices along with smaller specialty brands are trends in the market and large U.S.
driven beverage companies are having to adjust their businesses.
These trends have been in place for some time and we're managing our business accordingly going forward.
Q1 there is no exception but some end use market like craft beer and frozen pizza doing very well.
But others like in cereal and soft drink continue to be challenged.
We built this business historically around the U.S.
food and beverage categories but we're now a global operator with a more diversified portfolio of customers and products weakness in some of our end markets is being offset by strengthening others and we believe that our market shares up slightly on the global basis.
That's really the way we plan to manage these business these days and it's all part of our global paperboard packaging strategy.
Margins in EBITDA were again very strong in the quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA was $181 million and we grew margin by 330 basis points to 18%.
Mike and Steve will give you plenty of details about those trends but the macro trends this quarter were in line with what we have seen for a few periods now low inflation solid operating performance and good contribution from our acquisition to overall results.
The only real outlier this quarter was foreign exchange which was higher by $8 million.
We expect to continue to shorten our supply chain we're going to lower our input cost and we'll improve our operating efficiencies across the organization to drive margin and cash flow growth.
Last quarter we also told you about a capital allocation plan our board of directors had approved.
This plan included a $0.05 per share quarterly dividend and a $250 million share repurchase program.
Steve will discuss this a little bit more in his section but we paid our first dividend in April and made our first share repurchase in March.
This is something I'm incredibly proud of and hard to believe only five to six years ago that we'd be in this position.
Looking forward we have not made any changes to our full year guidance or operating outlook.
Steve will provide you with more details in a few minutes.
But we're targeting EBITDA growth of 5% to 6% and free cash flow of between 350 million and 375 million in 2015.
Currency will likely be a much bigger headwind than we initially expected but we will aggressively purse cost and proven opportunities and initiatives to achieve our targets.
I'm going to turn the call over to Mike Doss our Chief Operating Officer to discuss the business in more detail and then he'll turn it over to Steve.
Thanks David and good morning.
Volumes in our global paperboard packaging business increased by 9.1% in the first quarter the increase was driven primarily by our European expansion and the Rose City Packaging in Cascades' Norampac paperboard acquisitions.
This is partially offset by declines in our U.S.
business.
Our core business was essentially flat as we successfully offset weakness in some of our U.S.
end use with targeted gains in other areas.
The integration of Europe is progressing well and we're seeing strong growth in that market.
As we've outlined in the past our SUS paperboard offers better performance characteristics than competing substrates and is gaining acceptance and market share.
In the first quarter we integrated an incremental 20 000 tons of our SUS board in Europe and expect to ship nearly 150 000 tons to Europe in 2015.
Our European strategy is clearly gaining traction and growth in that business further supports the internationalization of our paperboard mill tons.
Outside of Europe our international businesses were positive in the quarter.
Premiumization particularly in the beer category is an important trend in emerging markets such as China and Brazil and is driving increased demand for our packaging machines and cartons in these regions.
As David discussed demand across our U.S.
consumer products and beverage folding carton markets was challenging in the first quarter but there were some bright spots such as frozen pizza craft beer and strength packaging.
Fresh and healthier choices convenience packaging sustainability and specialty brands are some of the prevalent trends that continue to reshape the U.S.
food and beverage markets.
Many of our largest U.S.
customers are adjusting their businesses around some of these trends in particular cereal and certain frozen food applications were challenged in quarter as several customers worked their mix to address these consumer trends.
New product development remains a key driver to the business.
In the first quarter we launched several new strength-based products with our heavyweight SUS and proprietary Z-Flute and Litho-Flute carton designs.
Our plastic replacement strategy also continues to gain momentum as we saw solid growth in the specialty beverage category in the first quarter.
The operating side of our business had another very strong quarter.
Our U.S.
mills ran well across the system and we've produced 20 000 more tons in the first -- than in the first quarter of last year.
If you recall severe weather unexpectedly shutdown and impacted production of our virgin mills by around 16 000 tons in the first quarter of last year.
While this skews the first quarter comparison we still increased our yield and production levels after adjusting for those lost tons last year.
Fortunately we didn't see repeat of last year's severe winter weather but the Southeastern U.S.
had a particularly wet Q1 which pushed wood prices modestly higher in the quarter and we expect these higher costs to continue into Q2.
The higher production levels in our U.S.
mills helped drive the 28.4 million of performance-based improvements we achieved in the quarter.
The improvements were the result of strong performance across our entire integrated platform as well as the negative impact of weather in the first quarter of last year.
We continue to utilize Lean and Six Sigma resources to lower input costs shorten our supply chain and improve operating efficiencies throughout our business.
Last quarter we told you about Rose City packaging and Cascades Norampac paperboard acquisitions.
Our work to integrate these assets is progressing to plan and we continue to believe there is potential to integrate 20 000 to 25 000 tons of graphic paperboard and generate 10 million to 15 million in synergies from these two acquisitions over the next 24 months.
Some of the work in 2015 is required to achieve this goal and our net incremental EBITDA projections are around 10 million in 2015 and in the 20 million to 25 million range in 2016.
Integration of the Benson Group acquisition is also on plan and our synergy targets of 6 million to 8 million this year remain unchanged.
Last quarter we told you about a $30 million co-gen energy project that is expected to generate 10 million in annual energy savings at our West Monroe mill.
Early work on this project is in line with plans and the new energy source is targeted to come online in early 2016.
Looking at the sequencing of the business this year I want to remind everyone about the impacts of weather in the first and second quarters last year.
We estimate that the severe weather negatively impacted first quarter EBITDA last year by nearly 15 million.
This came in the form of lost production higher operating costs and lost performance.
Conversely we estimated about half the weather-related EBITDA was recaptured in the second quarter last year.
In addition to the weather we also have some shifts in our plant maintenance downtime schedule this year specifically 3 million to 4 million of additional downtime cost will shift into Q2 from what we experienced in the second half of last year.
Steve Scherger our Chief Financial Officer will take you through Q2 and full year guidance in more detail and now I'll turn it over to Steve.
Thanks Mike and good morning.
As Mike and David have shared our Q1 results show strong improvement versus prior year.
Consistent with past practices when I refer to EBITDA net income and EPS today I'll be referring to adjusted numbers.
Adjustments this quarter were modest at $2.2 million pretax and related to M&amp;A activity integration costs for Europe and North America and other special charges.
For those of you on our Web site please refer to Page 9 to follow along.
Focusing on Q1 results our reported net sales were down $64 million compared to Q1 2014.
Excluding net sales from divested businesses net sales from our ongoing business were up 5.2% to $1 billion.
EBITDA increased 15% to 181.3 million as margin improved to 18% from 14.7% a year ago.
Net income increased 12.2 million to 56.7 million while diluted earnings per share for the quarter was $0.17 up $0.04 from a year ago.
Turning to the Q1 sales bridge the key contributor to the 5.2% increase was improved volume and mix which was primarily driven by our acquired businesses.
Price was modestly positive at 2.2 million as we cycled to all on the 2013 paperboard price increases and commodity inflation recovery.
We expect pricing and commodity inflation/deflation to remain in balance throughout 2015 consistent with our guidance.
The strength of the U.S.
dollar versus the global currencies in which we conduct the business resulted lower sales of over 29 million as foreign currency denominate sales have translated back into fewer U.S.
dollars in prior year.
Focusing on the strong improvement in EBITDA in Q1 the ongoing business increased almost 19% to 181.3 million.
As Mike mentioned 15 million of the improvement was weather related.
Modifying for this our year-over-year EBITDA was up over 8% drivers of the increase include strong performance of 28.4 million driven by global improvement initiatives acquisition synergies SG&amp;A reductions and producing and selling significantly more tones in the quarter.
Given the Q1 '14 $9 million favorable weather comparison for performance our full year view on performance benefits remains in the $70 million to $80 million range.
Volume contributed nearly 11 million to EBITDA as the incremental benefits from the Benson Cascades and Rose City acquisitions flowed to our results.
Slightly higher pricing and moderating commodity cost contributed just under 5 million energy and secondary fiber were the key drivers of the commodity deflation while wood prices were slightly higher than a year ago.
Please keep in mind that 5 million of the nearly 15 million weather impact in Q1 '14 was commodity inflation related.
Hence price and inflation were in balance for Q1 '15.
Other costs primarily in labor benefits were up almost $8 million in line with our expectations.
Finally given that exports are paperboard to our international affiliate and translate their local earnings back to U.S.
dollar.
FX negatively impacted EBITDA by nearly 8 million this quarter.
Given the continued strengthen of the U.S.
dollar.
We expect the full year FX impact will be in the $30 to $35 million at today's FX rates.
Our balance sheet in liquidity profile remains strong net debt was up approximately $170 million during the quarter.
In addition to our traditional seasonal Q1 working capital build we invested approximately $118 million in the Rose City and Cascades' acquisitions.
We contributed to $12 million to our pensions and repurchased $4 million of our shares.
Considering the Q1 2015 pension contribution which was not made in Q1 2014 Q1 operating cash generation with modestly better than last year and we continue to target full year free cash flow available for debt M&amp;A and return to shareholders to be in the $350 million to $375 million range.
We ended the quarter with 2.06 billion of net debt leaving our net leverage ratio at 2.81 times first the 3.27 times this time last year and strong domestic liquidity and excess of $900 million.
As an update on our new capital allocation plan we repurchased $4 million of GPK shares during the first quarter and our first quarterly dividend of $0.05 per share was paid on April 06.
Before we turn to full year guidance let me discuss our expectations for Q2.
Mike spoke about the no maintenance down time we expect to take this quarter which will drive at $3 million to $4 million negative EBITDA comparison versus prior year.
And the Q2 2014 weather recovery that will not repeat in the quarter.
Currency rates and seasonally higher Q2 volumes will drive the FX impact somewhat higher than what we experienced in Q1.
As such we expect Q2 2015 to be roughly in line with last year's Q2 EBITDA or a more normalized $10 million sequential increase over Q1 2015.
Our overall guidance for 2015 is essentially unchanged from last quarter.
We see full year EBITDA growth in the 5% to 6% range and free cash flow available for M&amp;A and our returns to shareholders to be in the $350 million to $375 million range.
Thank you for your time this morning.
I'll now turn the call back to the operator.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of George Staphos from Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Thanks and good morning everyone I appreciate all the details.
I guess first question I had for you is -- given the persistent weakness in some of your markets and obviously that's not your fault it's what's happening ultimately with the end consumer.
How to the extent that you can comment are you thinking about changes in your strategy in domestic markets if any at all changes in your operating stance and how you go to market and then I had a couple of follow-ons.
George I don't really think we're changing our strategy for the end used markets we've got ups and downs in new sectors beer is continuing to be strong and of course we made the acquisition with Sierra Pacific a couple of years ago and so that's paid benefits.
Our global expansion in Europe is been a great win for us.
The volume growth over there has been in beer and actually in SUS substitution so we continue to see that going forward.
Pasta has been strong.
Cereal was a little tough quarter for us it was down -- we were even down greater than what yields showed but some of that is obviously our customers adjusting to their inventory flow as well so I mean I think our domestic volume we expect to be flat to up still maybe a percent in total volume and then we end up with the acquisitions driving another percent percent and a half we sort into that 2.5% growth sort of number and that sort of fits our strategy because we're producing incrementally more tonnes supporting that business globally.
Okay so then at this juncture you don’t see any need to adjust your manufacturing footprint specific to markets like cereal or frozen foods and trying not to be too short-term in our thinking these trends tend to be longer term? Yes there you go George you got it it’s exactly right not that I would accuse you guys of quarter-over-quarter short-term evaluations by any means but no we're not going to adjust our manufacturing strategy based on quarters worth of change.
So what we will do and what we have been over years is if we end up with converting capacity that we do not -- that it gets estranged we'll make those adjustment.
I think since I've been here and Mike will know better I think we have shutdown like what 17 or 19 converting facilities right.
So relative to that but I think you have to look through in and you know this biographic that the profit engine for us is integrating and pulling through back through those board mills and as I have said with the acquisitions and with the global growth in the end-used sectors we sold 57 000 more tonnes a board year-on-year.
So I think if you think about the profit engine of the corporation I think it's pretty well in place as we go forward so I am not getting overly concerned about individual quarterly ups and downs right.
In fact right now if you look at the pull for what we are starting in the second quarter you clearly even in some of those end-used markets you start to see some strength returning.
So I think we need a little bit more data before we make significant strategic shifts in the business.
Understood understood and that's why I was giving the context before the question.
I appreciate the call over the comment.
One other question and I am going to turn over over those first few quarterly reports that we've had thus far one observation we've had is there is certainly ongoing fixed cost inflation if you have to think about that way that we need to as investors and analysts think about for the business that we evaluate and it sounds like one of the ways that you've been dealing with it pretty well is through Lean can you comment at all in terms of how that might help you specific to that normal performance improvement targets that you have and are there any potential other things that you can do to manage against that again not in just the next quarter but over the next two to three years? And I'll turn it over after that.
Yes so if you think of fixed cost I guess the part of that questioned you and I answered initially which is part of the fixed cost will be in the converting side of the business in which case if there is not volume then you take out the roofs right.
That's part of it.
The second part and Mike talked about it is that our capital plan this year is very much aimed back at some fixed cost reductions or investments that drive variable costs.
That you mentioned the investment in West Monroe Louisiana for example where we're going to put a co-gen down there that $30 million investment is $10 million a year at least based on current energy cost.
So there are clearly ways within our paperboard mills and our converting business to facilitate better fixed cost utilization across the process and I don't know Mike if you have got to.
No I'd just add George you know and we talked about this that even in Q4 last year after we had sold a number of these businesses.
We took a hard look at our SG&amp;A across the business and took out a pretty sizable portion of our -- what we've deemed to be standard SG&amp;A.
And initially that reflected in our Q1 numbers pretty well from an SG&amp;A percentage in terms of total sales.
So it's something we're always looking at.
What is our manufacturing footprint how are we running the business what cost do we need to service business we have it's really in our structural DNA as we outlined relative to some of the Lean and Sis Sigma work that we do.
And Mike you would affirm to continued $60 million plus performance improvements for the foreseeable future the next several years would that be fair? Yes and I think if you strip out and we did a little dash line there 9.2 I think we called weather and just subtract that out and multiply that pretty close to 4.
We’re comfortably in that range here for 2016 or for '15 I am sorry.
George this is Steve just to see just consistent with Mike's comments our 70 million to 80 million of performance commitment remains intact as we kind of look through the full year in terms of that guidance.
Your next question comes from line of Alex Ovshey from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Couple of questions on the Cascades acquisition now you have had in the business for a little bit can you talk about what's going on with the mills how are those running how are you utilizing the paper there? Both mills Alex have run fine.
We're using the paperboard in various parts of our business we're starting to take a look at how do we optimize trends in calipers David talked about that on the last earnings call that we had that is part of how we optimize a multi-mill system.
So I'd characterized it as on plan from what we characterized and heading towards those synergy numbers that we have outlined for you.
On the SBS side I know one of the mills have ability to do something similar to that type of product are you buying a little bit less SBS as a result? Not yet.
I mean that's really more of a TMP thermo mechanical pulp it can be used for some of those applications but.
We haven't really started displacing any SBS in our business right now.
And then you talked about share gain from other substrates would you be able to elaborate that a little bit what substrates and maybe examples of specific product where you guys are winning in the market? I'll give you two examples I mean the strength packaging really has been a big driver for us and we've talked about that in the past well that really displaces litho lam some of the corrugated applications these are heavy caliper SUS products that we make for club stores and other channels and that's kind of an ongoing basic type thing that we do and then the other part of it is and I commented on this in my prepared remarks that substrate the SUS substrate has really found a nice home in certain applications in Europe and that is the characteristics are different there is the strength and the lighter grammage that allows it to perform well in those applications and being able to make it available through our converting plans and the customers we have over there.
We've seen some nice some wins at the expense of other substrates and that's evidenced by the trend that we have got now with that we believe will ship 150 000 tonnes to Europe this year that product.
And Alex that's kind what the your question is in extension of George’s which is sort of where how's the business continued to grow and as Mike said we're going to be upward 50 000 tonnes or so of this SUS is the -- since the first acquisition we made in Europe maybe a little more.
More than that.
So we clearly see a path to 200 000 tonnes of paperboard being sold in Europe and that's paper that we were not producing two years ago.
And that drives incremental EBITDA and we can argue it's not growth but it’s growth relative to our model because our model is an integrated model.
So if we're in Europe and we're selling cereal and pizza and we're buying board on the outside but we now integrate that into SUS because it makes a better application that's growth.
I mean that's Graphic Packaging’s growth because of the integrated model.
So I think you have to think of Graphic’s growth on a couple of different plains not just are we selling an extra carton the question is on the carton you're selling is it greater value and greater EBITDA growth because you have your integrated approach and you're mixing and quite frankly that's exactly what we're seeing.
And just a last one for Steve on FX the headwind seems more meaningful the 30 to 35 then what would be implied by the revenue number? Maybe can you provide a little bit more detail what currencies are having the most impact? And whether there is any transaction FX exposure in the business which is making that number higher than what we would think it -- well what sort of a base case assumption would seem to be? Yes Alex and it's a good question.
The reason that it moves a little bit beyond just the top-line is that we do have a little transactional and translational impact and so the translational component comes of course as we translate primarily European and Japanese earnings as well as our global footprint but those are the primaries.
And then of course we do have transactional as Mike and David has both articulated on 150 000 tonnes of paperboard for example into Europe gets transacted back at due to the currency impact so that's why we want to try to provide pretty good clarity on both transactional and translational and the primary currencies for us as you know are euro the pound and the yen and we've got it at today's rates that's 30 million to 35 million of both transactional and translational impact that we will see on a full year basis slightly higher than what we shared with you in our last quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi from Baird.
Your line is open.
Back to the reference on the consumers changing preferences and your customers changing the product mix David is that just an affirmation of what you have been seeing overtime or do you sense a new sense of urgency from your customers? And I guess the related question is how philosophically how does the paperboard market get impacted overtime as the packaging needs change as well with these new products? Well I mean if you're asking me whether the first quarter was a huge structural change no.
And as I said in my prepared remarks we've been seeing that change for a while which is we didn’t sort of wake up on third and thought we hit a triple I mean the acquisitions that we made were specifically focused on end-used sectors and geographies to offset some of those declines and some of those processes so the acquisitions in Europe with Contego and with A&amp;R were specifically the largest players in their end-used spaces the same thing in Cascades we felt strongly there was an opportunity to grow in Canada but we did not have the converting base through which to pull our paperboard.
The acquisition of Sierra Pacific and Rose City were a geographic expansion but a pull-through in our mill system as well because in the case they are in some regional businesses Rose City is a great example.
They are in the food business but they're selling to some of the regional guys regional people that we don’t necessarily see.
They aren't necessarily the large consumer goods companies but those guys are growing regionally so what I am saying is that yes although the people that seem to be struggling on the food side happen to be the large consumer goods companies.
We absolutely get that but we're working to not only through new products and acquisitions but to offset that and you're kind of seeing that.
But while those guys struggle materially with their volumes we overall were pretty flat so what I would say is that as those large consumer goods companies sort of figure out their mojo and change their approach then we're going to be bullied by that change.
In the meantime we're doing global expansion and regional expansion in smaller regional player food guys to be able to help that keep that volume going and that has been our strategy for a while and that's why these acquisitions have been I believe on point we're trying to deal with kind of where the puck was going and not where the puck was.
Okay that makes sense thanks so much.
And then a question for Steve just on the FX I mean it looks like another 15 million to 20 million headwind versus maybe initial guidance for the year just curious are there any other offsets on the plus side or minus side that we should we think about as we kind of model at the back half of the year? That's really the most significant movement that we've seen in terms of overall guidance.
The rest of the key attributes remain as we suggested price and commodity inflation we believe will be in balance as we've suggested the numbers will move around a little bit but in balance.
And overall those commitments that we shared with you from a guidance perspective remain intact.
Yes I think what we would say is that despite those headwinds we're going to deliver the same EBITDA and cash flow growth that we talked to you about the start of the year.
We haven't changed our numbers a bit this quarter was a perfect example.
We had $8 million worth of FX but nonetheless we were able to overcome and then we would expect the same thing the rest of the year we're counter-measuring out that if the currency changes positively that would be great but in the meantime we are expecting to overcome that and still deliver the forecast that we gave you.
Your next question comes from the line of Philip Ng from Jefferies.
Your line is open.
It sounds like demand has firmed up recently but can you comment on the inter-quarter trends in 2Q and how your backlogs are shaking out do you think 1Q was negative in anyway by Easter and just the weather in general? Yes the shorter answer is no we're not provide inter-quarter forecast because it's irrelevant until the end of the quarter.
If I could tell you what our orders are doing right now it would have nothing to do essentially with what will happen at the inter-quarter what I will tell you is that the quarter and second quarter which is seasonally higher for us traditionally is following historical trends.
It's stronger than it was in the first quarter from those end-used markets if you would expect to be better soft drink beer even cereal is better so you're seeing that and it's what you would expect to see in this quarter.
I guess the value proposition of your European business impart is just due to the low cost structuring of board and just your broad product offerings does it sound like its impacting it much but how did the strengthening dollar kind of impact your business going forward? $8 million in the quarter alone in 30 to 35 for the year but what it does affect is the strategy what I will tell you in our European operations despite the fact most of that headwind in foreign exchange was predominately in Europe through the growth that they had or operating improvements they overcame that that headwind just in pure good operations.
And so you talk about low cost mills but I will tell you what if you went to see our converting facilities in Europe they are as good as anything on the continent.
The acquisitions that we've purchased in Contego and in A&amp;R and Benson are greater operating process and we're actually using that to expand what were legacy Graphic operations in the UK.
We're busy in Europe.
We've been incredibly successful in growing that business and in substitution of the board over there predominately because we have good teams on the ground and we have great assets on the ground.
So I am optimistic about our European business because despite the headwinds they've been able to operate through it.
Those are our expectations for them so that's not a surprise it's just I am pleased that they're able to do that.
Okay and just one last final one for me I know the trade publication has lowered pricing as such for CUK and SBS can you help frame the near-term impacts and I guess on assets you're buying bleach board in open market but from a headwind perspective on your converting side it’s not going to impact on the margin going forward but just kind of help frame it for us would be helpful? This is Steve.
The impact this year will be very modest than was in inside of really the guidance that we had provided there is most of what we saw with those small numbers we have really kind of had factored into our thinking that it was a very minor net movement on the SBS front those cost we of course would transact with our -- when we purchase and those things tend to flow through to our customers so no real impact there as well.
Mike anything you’d add to that.
No I think that's right.
You got to remember two guys in our contracts for the end-used customers we don't really move around on $10 a tonne up or down.
Because it is just you would be changing invoice pricing forever on folding card.
And so there is a range at which it just has no impact on the carton side of the business and that's we're kind of comfortably in that range.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde from BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Dave I wondered if we could just talk about sort of the acquisition market financially you are in great shape right now.
You have been growing through acquisitions.
I guess the first question is just whether you would be willing to tackle more in the short-term given that you just closed on Norampac and Rose City? Yes I mean Mark you know us long enough to know we're serial acquirers and investors.
So if you give the teams sometime off they get rusty.
So that is not our plan and we have a number of things that we're looking at right now.
As you would expect we're keeping some powder dry because I still think there is some potential dislocations in the North American and European market and we want to have be prepared.
I will tell you that you and I have had this conversation before but the only regret I really had since I have been in this job is that a couple of assets came available at one point in time that I would have loved to have but we just did not had the balance sheet to be able to do them.
And I don't want to be -- I don't want to be caught watching the paint dry so we're trying to keep ourselves in a place where good acquisitions are available then we can do it quickly people know we're serious and they know we're capable and that's kind of what we're doing at this point in time.
And Dave just any general thought on what you're seeing right now in terms of both flow and value expectations on assets that might be for sale? That's a good question.
Mark a lot of times it depends upon who owns those assets right? Certainly in the private equity all the European assets that really Mike and Steve purchase those things were all done from private equity and they were exit plans and the multiples on those things were on average what 6.5 or something like that they were accretive the day we brought them and then with the synergies they are probably on average 3.5 or 4 times.
So that's different.
If it's a strategic purchase typically Mark the multiple tend to be up a little bit.
But our multiple is at a good place right now as well.
So we can do something and still be creative to our business if we're buying good assets Mark.
And just Dave in terms of geographic I mean we've talked about Mexico in the past we've talked about North America and we've talked about Europe.
Can you just give us some sense of where you would be kind of most interested at this point? Because it sounded like maybe you were going to back off at Europe for a little while and you have raised the issue of Mexico several times in the past? Yes I mean and Mark I think you have got it right I mean it depends upon the asset right.
I mean if we were going to buy and if the world is your oyster and you were going to buy board assets then predominantly that's going to be a North American purchase for us and that will be different.
If we are going to buy converting assets and I think all those geographies are open and that includes Mexico Mike and I have said publically we would love to find asset in Mexico and build on our base we've a great little plant down there and we even have a really nice business down there but we don't have all the critical mass that we want.
But in Mexico you have to know what you are buying and that takes a little bit more time and a little bit more diligence just because that market is a little less transparent relative to the financials.
So I think long-term we're going to end up with more assets in Mexico but I want to make sure we don't make mistakes.
In Europe yes and Mike said it last time that we are probably looking at the second half of '15 or early part of '16 before we made another European asset but you’d also know timing is what it is? It's a great asset comes up that is in end-used space that we need to be in and we think that asset will fit then we will lean over our skis a little bit and we will ask Mr.
Youst to bucket up and buy it and go do it and every Graphic Packaging manager sort of know it and that's really our DNA that's really what we do and that's kind of the expectation if you're going to be there.
So I'm not calling off anything because of really management capacity at this point in time it is the right asset in the right place at the right price.
Okay.
Just two other quickies one is there any chance Steve that the deflation could actually be of a bigger benefit this year? No I think as we kind of look forward at least obviously assuming rates and inflation/deflation activities are about where are at we don't really see it.
We've got some inflation as Mike mentioned that we're managing on the wood side.
Transportation cost we don't tend to get the enormous benefit out of the reduced gas prices because of inflation on drivers and lanes and so I think we've got it about right and of course we do have hedging activities that are in place as well that keep us pretty consistent and so our hedging strategies also tend to flatten it out so we have less variability then the natural what would appear to be the inclinations of the market.
So now I think we've got it narrowed in reasonably well we wouldn't expect too much in the form of variability off of the guidance.
Okay the last question Dave when we were down in December we saw that new tight pack beer pack that you were doing for kind of one of the smaller brewers in North America and you were talking about potentially introducing that one of their other breweries and also more broadly have you gotten anymore pick up on that? Hi Mark it's Mike.
Yes we actually do have introduced which is the second breweries we had indicated that we believe we would and we're in the process of actually getting some additional sales from another customer during this quarter and quarter two.
And anyway to size on that Mike just what the impact is for you guys? I think when you were down here we indicated that on annualized basis that could be to 15 000 to 20 000 tonnes all in of course we're in the infancy stages of that.
So it takes a while for it to materialize and go through the qualifications.
Okay I assume that's something also you could look at introducing in Europe as well? Yes we could and we're.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari from Citi.
Your line is open.
I had a question on stir pulping capacity given you have had more demand from Rose City and Cascades and you've been operating well is there any upside to the incremental pulping capacity that you can bring to market I think you've guided to 150 000 to 200 000 tonnes last year is there any potential upside that that would maybe with the Cascades mills or just better operating performance? Well what we were speaking about Anthony when we actually made that comment was we had in the neighborhood 150 well between 100 000 and 150 000 tonnes of SUS pulping capacity.
And the way to think about that as we convert that pulp obviously into paperboard and as David said these acquisitions actually drive our SUS demand up internally therefore we're able to get the benefit of that pulp.
So it really tends to be specific relative to the mills system as opposed to the two mills we got up in Canada that would be a little different deal.
And I guess what we would say is that Anthony we still have plenty of runway on the pulping capacity.
We do a fiber balance every month and then every quarter we look backward through the mills.
We haven't done a pulp capacity necessarily look but at this point in time if you look at the way our digesting capacity is running and the efficiency in the backend of those mills I am absolutely 100% positive.
We have generated incremental pulping capacity through the efficiency and the investments.
And I think I mentioned earlier most of our capital investments right now is not necessarily on the converting side we're continuing to buy new pressers and cutters so all the customers are listening on we're going to continue to upgrade those.
But the fact of the matter is most of our real improvement capacity in capital is back in those paperboard mills and ultimately that does incrementally add to our pulping capacity.
So we've got plenty of runway over the next two to three years for sure in making pulp and turning that into paperboard assuming we can continue to grow the business successfully as we've been doing.
Okay that’s very helpful and then just a question on folding carton markets.
I guess you said that you might be flat to up organically if I heard that correctly do you see yourselves gaining share this year? I wondered if you could just talk a little bit about the competitive nature of folding carton markets in North America and are you seeing any share shift or market moves ahead of the merger of two of your largest competitors and potentially a merger of two of the largest buyers of boxboard? Yes I guess the way I'd answer that is globally Anthony if you look at our numbers in Q1 as we outlined where our core markets are flat we saw some sectors that are actually down a bit as David outlined.
And we actually had wins in sectors that were up a little bit things like frozen pizza craft beers and examples those were up year-on-year and that helps make up for some of the shortfalls we saw in things like carbonated soft drink or cereal.
So that's kind of the way to think about it.
In terms of major share shifts we have not seen that.
We are just paid in ongoing bids like pretty much everybody else in the space does and we win some we lose some in terms of the overall share but it's been pretty steady and we don't anticipate that being a big issue going forward.
I think the thing you have to remember is we competed against both the two MWV and Rock-Tenn whatever they're going to end up calling themselves prior to the merger as well so we know those businesses pretty well and we expect we will continue to compete against them.
Your next question comes from the line of Al Kabili from Macquarie.
Your line is open.
And just the first question is the if the euro for whatever reason were to fall the parity to the U.S.
dollar would that materially change your outlook on the opportunities for SUS conversion in Europe and converse as well do you think the value proposition is high enough for SUS that you might be able to charge more for it in local terms to offset some of the FX headwinds overtime? Thanks.
Okay.
So now we're into the total hypothetical look at the end of the day the SUS value proposition is one that is going to survive the euro moving to parity as you can well imagine we've modeled on a go forward basis.
And the fact of the matter is a lot of it may depend upon what actually drives that somebody asked earlier question which Steve would you see some positives out there? We're sort of looking the same if the euro and is sort of where it's it is because the input material and the global economies are sort of where they're right now.
If there is a major change in those things probably something else is going on underneath and those things like TiO2 and caustic soda and input are probably going to drop as well.
So you end up since some of this is translational and some of this is transactional you end up sort of offsetting that because we buy raw materials to make SUS on a global basis right.
We bring barges of caustic soda on a global basis up in West Monroe to do so.
So I'm not as much concerned about those dislocations of the dollar moving to parity.
I'd be a lot more concerned on that if it was some global melt down and had nothing to do with the actual cost but it had something to do with global demand changes or something that was really structurally changing in the end-used markets that would be more difficult to overcome as opposed to a transitory change in input costs or currency flows.
I guess the second question is on it sounds like you're targeting about 150 000 plus tonnes of expansion this year any thoughts and then North America in terms of growth for tight pack and your other growth initiatives in terms of tonnage in terms of target growth in tonnage there that you could help us with? Well a clarification or a correction I guess first we're not targeting 150 000 tonnes of SUS expansion in 2015 what we have talked about is we've got 100 000 to 150 000 tonnes of available pulp and we can turn into paperboard as we need it.
We started doing that this year we'll continue to do that in years to come as we add additional acquisitions or have customer demand for that that's really the model.
We're not going to produce pulp or board that we cannot sell.
So as we've said that those targets are sort of over and we said that it is over a two to three year period of time we expect to be at because based on our growth tonnes we will need that capacity in terms of board.
But our growth this year is I mean it has been pretty consistent in tonnes.
Okay.
That helps and then the growth on tight pack can you give us just a sense in terms of tonnes or volume rate how that's looking the first part of the year here? It's a great product and we've seen the growth that we sort of talked about before as Mike said it's probably a 15 000 to 20 000 tonne all in market.
In some cases it's -- we're using that to feel volume in something in serial or some other process we only use that example not to suggest that it's into all issues to show that there are ways that when parts of the market are struggling if you have some innovation and you have the tools then you can offset some of those declines in other businesses and still gain market by making products and substitutes.
So what I'd tell you is that those kinds of things right now are going and that's why Michael said on a global basis we were sort of flat because all the new products stuff sort of went in and kept our global markets on those core businesses flat in the quarter.
And that's against a pretty difficult core first quarter relative to some of the end-used market like soft drink and cereal which you would not expect to see the kind of declines that we saw year-on-year on an ongoing basis.
So I was optimistic that there is some growth in those core markets as we go out.
But I have sort of out of the forecasting business for cereal soft drink frozen pizza macaroni and cheese because this is a little difficult to figure out within a quarter the clarity on those kinds of demand.
Okay.
Thanks I appreciate it.
The last question just housekeeping on the maintenance and the sequencing the 3 million to 4 million timing on the maintenance in 2Q year-over-year is that a favorable than in the third quarter or do we have a little bit more higher maintenance spending overall for the year? Thanks.
Yes this is Steve.
Yes just as Mike mentioned the 3 million to 4 million is maintenance that we will incur in Q2 that's in our normal course on an annual basis but it was last year would have been in the back half of the year and so think of it as a shift which is why we wanted to provide a little more clarity on Q2 given all of the weather activities as well as some maintenance movements so it is not an increase in total it's more of a shift into Q2 and out of the second half of the year in terms of when we did it last year? Your next question comes from the line of Debbie Jones from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Dave on the last call you mentioned the Graphic you feel that Graphic spent too much money storing and moving things around in warehousing and that could be an opportunity for you overtime over the next couple of years I was just wondering if you could elaborate this and maybe kind of size up what that opportunity might be? Well since I ask Mike about it every month I will let Mike size up that and talk to you about it.
Yes and it remains an opportunity as you know Debbie line haul rates continue to go up even though diesel prices are down.
So we want to make sure that we are as efficient and effective as we possibly can be we're shipping a lot of tonnes to Europe more tonnes now than we ever had before so we've invested in the a lot of people and processes to help us really drive that out.
But I think the way to think about that is that's really embedded in this ongoing performance that we talk about the $70 million to $80 million a year that we've got to get out.
I want to think about it as on top of that.
We get a lot of questions well how do you view ’16 ’17 ’18 these are the types of things that really help us build a multiyear platform and really drive that level of performance year in and year out.
Okay that's helpful and just to ask a quarterly question here is there any specific reason for the shift in downtime from Q3 to Q2? It really just comes down to the fact as you know when you have one of these outages you have got a lot of specialized venders maintenance venders that come in contractors if you will that do the work.
And from a scheduling standpoint it was most favorable for them and for us to do that in Q2 this year.
And Debbie to that you got to remember that those specialists tend to be the same people that shift around to every other companies mills and in the Midwest where a lot of this work is going to be done there are quite a few recycle board mills of some size up there so you kind of get in the queue and you kind of do it in intent because you want the right people in those spots and that's really where -- and you know and I've said before we don't really manage it to a quarterly basis.
What we want to make sure is we got it done within the year which is why we tend to give you annual guidance but not quarterly guidance because we just really manage the Company to a quarter-to-quarter basis it makes no sense to do so for a paperboard company.
Yes now I agree I just wanted to understand if there is something out there.
Thank you very much that is helpful.
Your next question is a follow-up from George Staphos from Bank of America.
Your line is again open.
I guess first of all if we think about the frozen food category longer term Dave if we are to see more growth in the future do you think it's going to come from Susceptor Technology getting better or do you think that the if you will offering and delivery is really good as it is right now and it is just a function of consumer spending patterns and tightness in the wall so to speak that's keeping frozen food languishing right now as an end-market? Well a lot of it depends upon a shift in the millennial thing if you look at it right now for the first time ever the baby-boomer is not the predominate age limit 22-year olds are so they consume slightly differently.
And you can see that in some of the frozen stuff so the microwave stuff is doing really well.
But also so are smaller servings and so that's not bad for us it's just a shift because if you still make more boxes if we are doing more frozen and you're seeing smaller units but I feel so pretty good about the frozen food market because you still see the millennials using that kind of product as an augment to all the fresh and -- around the store -- you know around the peripheral of the store.
So I think ultimately we feel pretty good about frozen food but it's going to have to be functional and the fact that it's making stuff food better and that's one of the reasons that microwave tends to end up in that space.
Okay second question how would you gauge your ability versus your mainline competitors to commercialize new product and come back to customer with prototypes in a very limited time span when we visited your facility we've actually been very impressed with your ability to turnaround things very quickly would you say GPK is more or less in line with all the other mainline competitors or do you think you’re a notch above or perhaps trending below the other larger carton guys? What I would say is this as you got to sort of measure the results and if you look at our new product growth opportunities it's been solid.
Our customers gravitate towards coming here but I am sure our competitors which are well-capitalized and they know the market as well I am sure they've got very-very capable new product development activities and new product development process.
All I know is that our resources are paying us dividends and you can see it in our new product development activity and substitution work so I am comfortable that we're invested appropriately.
Just two last ones I'll turn it back so at the end of the day if FX is more negative than you would have expected and you're not changing guidance on the other line items nor you're changing guidance on EBITDA I might have missed it but what was the offset then that allows you to maintain your guidance? And then the other thing is… It was input cost from the most… Okay and then thank you for that and then the last thing I kind of remember on the maintenance spending standpoint that last year you had a called outage in the fourth quarter and that shouldn't replicate this year? Does that help your comparisons or is that just a timing factor as well? Thanks guys and good luck in the quarter.
I think it was only the one mill.
I think we will have a called outage this year in a different pulping mill.
It just a shorter one.
Yes.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
So total days are not changing dramatically.
We have got one minute Alex I understand you're in line for another question? And Alex Ovshey your line is again open.
Just on hedging if you can just update us on what you guys are hedging on the energy side and the timing around when those roll off or when you think about renewing those? That's really it.
Thank you.
Yes we have ongoing hedging strategies as you know and we're about 75% hedged on natural gas for '15 and we're pretty materially hedged into '16 as well and so those are the two majors and on the board side where we hedge as we discussed on the paperboard side we roll those through on more of an annualized basis.
Yes and I would imagine the hedging on '16 guys below where you're in '15 is that fair? That's fair and correct.
Yes right.
Thanks very much guys.
I appreciate it.
Look we're going to have to go thanks for all your questions.
And we will talk you in the next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Suzanne and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Graphic Packaging Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Brad Ankerholz you may begin your conference.
Thank you Suzanne and welcome everyone to the Graphic Packaging Holding Company's second quarter 2015 earnings call.
Commenting on results this morning are David Scheible the Company's Chairman and CEO; Mike Doss our President Chief Operating Officer; and Steve Scherger Senior Vice President CFO.
To help you follow along with today's call we have provided a slide presentation which can be accessed by clicking on the Webcasts and Presentations link on our Investors section at the Web site graphicpkg.com.
I would like to remind everyone this morning the statements of our expectations plans estimates and beliefs regarding future performance and events constitute forward-looking statements.
Such statements are based on currently available information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's present expectations.
Information regarding these risks and uncertainties is contained in the Company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements as such statements speak only as of the date on which they're made and the company undertakes no obligation to update such statements.
David I'll turn it to you now.
Thanks Brad.
Good morning everyone.
We had a solid quarter and our results were in line with our expectations.
We continue to execute well and deliver against our full year plan in what remains challenging operating environment.
And we produced 14 000 more tons in our U.S.
paperboard mills and sold and integrated those tons throughout our global system versus the second quarter of last year.
Sales on our ongoing businesses increased about 5% in the quarter and were driven by acquisitions new product launches and sub-straight substitution.
EBITDA and margins were also strong in the quarter and we continue to be driven by ongoing asset optimization strategies acquisition integration and strong operating performance.
Adjusted-EBITDA was 190 million and adjusted-EBITDA margin increased over 100 basis points to 18.2% in the quarter.
We're pleased with those results given that the second quarter was a particularly difficult comparison for Graphic Packaging.
We are facing headwind from the strengthening U.S.
dollar in Europe and Japan and we took more maintenance downtime at our mills for process upgrades in this year second quarter as compared to a year ago.
Also you'll probably remember last year's second quarter benefited from a bounce back following the Q1 2014 severe weather impact.
So some of the quarter we delivered our expectations despite a difficult prior year comparison and some softness across key end use markets in U.S..
Overcoming and use market demand weakness is not new for us.
We view our strong cash flow and balance sheet to augment growth and deliver what we say we were do we’ve divestiture our non-core assets and businesses to free of capital we’ve reinvested in our core business to optimize our assets and our manufacturing footprint in both the mills and the converting units to drive performance improvements.
We required new assets to diversify our core portfolio of products our channels and different customers and we have transform the corporation to a pure play global paperboard packaging company with the clear strategy to grow revenue and EBITDA.
We continue to see opportunities to feel a lot of our global footprint and our pipeline for acquisitions remains as robust as we have ever seen.
Mike and Steve will give you some details but the macro trends this quarter were pretty similar to what we have seen for the past several quarters and really were a lot of surprises.
We had a little bit of growth we had strong operating performance that help us overcome currency negative and overall pricing and inflation for mostly in balance.
Most of you saw that we recently announced at $50 a ton price increased in our coated-recycled board products for August.
As we have discussed before our goal is to have price offset commodity input inflation overtime this is done through open market lower price increases and price adjustment mechanisms in our current contracts.
Over the long-term these are not necessarily margin enhancing initiatives and it’s been almost two years since the industry is seen any price increase for coated-recycled board.
As you may recall earlier this year we told you about a capital allocation plan approved by our Board of Directors.
Consistent with this plan we repurchased 4 million shares of Graphic Packaging stock significantly below our current trading price in Q2 and we also paid a $0.05 per share of dividend in July first time ever.
Looking forward we have not at any significant changes to our full year guidance for operating outlook.
Steve will provide you with plenty of detail in a few minutes but we are still target in EBITDA growth of between 5% and 6% and free cash flow between 350 million and 375 million for 2015.
Currency is going to continue to be headwind we are aggressively pursuing costs and performance improvement initiatives to maintain our full year EBITDA and cash flow targets.
I’ll now turn the call over to Mike Doss our President and Chief Operating Officer to discuss the business in more detail.
Michael? Volumes in our ongoing global paperboard packaging business increased by almost 12% in the second quarter the increase was driven primarily by our continued European expansion and the Rose City Packaging in Cascades’ Norampac paperboard acquisitions.
Excluding this acquisitions volumes were up slightly as we successfully offset demand weakness in some of our U.S.
and markets with targeted gains and other areas.
The integration of Europe is progressing in-line with expectations and we are seen substrate gains in this market.
In the second quarter we continue to integrate our SUS board in Europe and are on track to ship nearly a 150 000 tons into the region in 2015 and ultimately our targeting to shift 200 000 tons annually.
Please recall that prior to making the three acquisitions in Europe we were shipping less than 95 000 tons annually into legacy operations.
Internalization of our U.S.
paperboard mills you may incentive to our strategy in Europe and the growth in this business provides additional leverage for our vertically integrated model.
Our synergy target the integration of the Benson Group remains in the $6 million to $8 million range for the year.
In North America the integration of Rose City Packaging and Cascades Norampac paperboard acquisitions is also progressing according to plan.
And we see the potential to integrate 20 000 to 25 000 tons into these operations over a two year timeframe.
If we recall the Cascades acquisition included three Canadian holds and carton converting facility of thermal mechanical pulp mill and CRB mill after a fair assessment we recently announced to shutdown of thermal mechanical pulp mill and [indiscernible].
This was the difficult position no question but one we thought was necessary given the high cost structure lower operating rates and limited demand for specialty board.
Our synergy and board integration targets remain unchanged by this action.
Please recall that we expect to combine our impact in Rose City assets to generate $10 million of EBITDA in 2015 20 million to 25 million of EBITDA in 2016 and 25 million to 30 million in 2017 and we are tracking to those figures.
As David mentioned demand across many of our U.S.
food and beverage end markets has been weak for some time.
Some of these are structural nature while some of it is a result of consumers managing spending.
However there were some great spots in the quarter.
Our frozen pizza packaging volumes were up significantly with the major customer win and our overall global beverage volumes were up slightly compared to prior year with craft beer and specialty drinks leading the way.
New product development remains critical to offset demand weakness in certain markets.
Numerous wins in the quarter included a major new UK cereal producer utilizing our SUF board.
We also brought to market a new paperboard strength solution for a global brewer in Europe.
In the fresh produce and away-from-home markets we commercialized a new paperboard produce tray for the club store channel and a new clam shell for a fresh morning breakfast item.
Capturing 1% to 2% sales growth per year for new product development remains our target.
As David mentioned subsequent to the quarter end we announced the $50 per ton increase for our CRB grades effective August 7th.
However we will not begin to see the increase materially impact our results until 2016.
While price announcements benefit our open market board sales immediately these sales make-up the small amount of our top-line.
As you know over 80% of our board production is consumed internally and turned into cartons which are predominantly sold under long-term contracts.
And as we have said in the past many of these contracts have price resetting mechanisms that are tight to publish price board.
Once published these reassess have an average nine-month lag so we will not begin to see the benefit of reassess until next year.
As David mentioned more price increases are not necessarily margin enhancing over the long-term.
They are mechanisms for us to recover commodity input inflation in carton contract renewal settlements overtime.
Turning to operations we had another very strong quarter.
Our U.S.
mills run well across the system and produce almost 14 000 more tons in the second quarter of last year just taking more mill downtime this quarter for maintenance and production line upgrades.
The improvements in mill efficiency this year have been the result of our continued commitment to both Lean and Six Sigma principals along with targeted high return investments.
For example our $30 million cogent energy project is expected to generate 10 million of annual energy savings at West Monroe mill beginning early next year.
As David alluded severe weather last year pushed some business out of the first quarter and into the second quarter.
We estimate the incremental pick-up to EBITDA was around $8 million for the second quarter last year making for a rather difficult comparison this year.
Looking to the third quarter we have five additional planned downtime dates due to a number of production line upgrades at our Kalamazoo Michigan CRB mill.
However our backlogs moving to third quarter remain strong at four weeks for CRB and four to five weeks for CUK.
And now Steve Scherger our Chief Financial Officer will take you through the Q2 financial results.
Steve? Thanks Mike and good morning.
As Mike and David shared we had another solid quarter.
Results met our expectations more of it continues to be a difficult operating environment.
Consistent with fed practices when I refer to EBITDA net income and EPS we're referring to adjusted numbers.
Adjustments in this quarter were modest at $5 million pre-tax which related to M&amp;A activity integration costs and other special charges.
For those of you who are on the web site please refer to page 6 follow along.
Focusing on Q2 results our reported net sales were down $60 million compared to prior year.
Excluding net sales from the best businesses however net sales were up $48.1 million or 4.8% to 1.06 billion.
Also excluding divested businesses EBITDA increased $5.6 million or 3% to $192 million.
Margins improved over a 100 basis points 18.2% to 17.1% a year ago.
Diluted earnings per share for the quarter was $0.19; compared to $0.20 last year.
Turning to Q2 sales 4.8% increased was driven by improved volume and mix primarily from our acquired businesses.
Price turned slightly negative this quarter due primarily to contractual recess related to declining commodity costs and a couple of contract renewal settlements.
As I mentioned last quarter we expect pricing and commodity inflation deflation to remain relatively in balance in 2015 and overtime.
The strength U.S.
dollar versus global currencies resulted in lower sales of $28 million as foreign currency denominated sales that translated back in the U.S.
dollars.
Turning to the Q2 improvement and EBITDA the ongoing business increased $5.6 million or 3% to $192 million.
Drivers of the increase include improved performance at $12.7 million driven by our asset optimization strategies acquisition synergies and strong operating performance.
Including the $28 million of performance improvements of Q1 we remain on track to achieve our full year's performance improvement target of $70 million to $80 million.
Positive volumes nearly $9 million the EBITDA has the benefits from the Bensons [indiscernible] 0:13:33.8 and Rose City acquisitions brought to our results partially offsetting the positive drivers were $2.3 million of lower price net off commodity deflation labor and benefits inflation of $8.6 million which was in line with our expectation.
And the FX was $5 million.
The 4 year FX impact which we have discussed previously will be in the $25 million to $30 million dollar range at today's rates.
Our balance sheet liquidity profile remains strong.
Net debt increased $65 million during the quarter.
We ended the quarter with just under $2 billion of net debt.
Our net leverage ratio declined 2.7 times from 3.17 last year.
During the quarter we contributed $11 million to our pension plan and we turned over $20 million to our shareholders with the quarterly dividend share repurchases.
Domestic equity remains quite strong at $960 million.
Our guidance is essentially unchanged from last quarter was two minor exceptions.
We've increased expected capital expenses to $10 million as a few high return projects later for 2016 will be started later this year.
We're also lowered our interest of expenses forecast into the $65 million to $75 million dollar range as short-term interest rates have continued to remain low.
We expect full year EBITDA growth in the 5% or 6% range and free cash flow available for M&amp;A and our return to shareholders to be in a $350 million to $375 million range.
Thank you for your time this morning.
I'll now turn the call back to the operator.
[Operator instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Philip Ng of Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Historically its really been the virgin grades that have driven boxboard prices higher in the market could you share that dynamic has changed in light of some of the recent consolidation in the market.
I don't know that I would say that's true.
Over my career of the last 19 years it's been a little bit above.
I remember CRB pricing leading before maybe 3 or 4 years ago it was CRB first and then the other grades followed.
So I don't know about that but what I will tell you is that there has been no CRB increase for over 2 years.
So probably this grade is the longest without a price increase.
So it's really appropriate in light of input inflation and forward views that say it's an appropriate increase.
Could you share some of your views on the CNK side if I heard you correctly the backlog stands a even a little more extended on the CNK side.
You know we will look at each one of these grades as they go along and what we feel right now is that if you look at the inflation and the things that we've seen its more imperative to get the CRB increase out there.
We'll look at CNK next for sure.
That's helpful.
And in terms of inflation can you give us some color on how we should be thinking about it this year both on the raw material and labor side certainly some puts and takes you know with OCC prices noted tick up but not gas prices you know still pretty low here.
I will let Steve get into detail but I would say overall it's going to be pretty flat for the remainder of the year as far as input inflation you got some tradeoffs but cost itself is kind of flat and other major chemical increases with oil at 50 bucks they seem pretty flat as well.
Labor inflation is averaging about 25 nearly to 30 a year.
That has to be covered with our throughput improvement.
We don't really get that back in pricing.
So overall I'd say it's a flat to slightly positive environment if in the pricing versus inflation category at this point.
This is Steve.
Just to emphasize that we haven't seen any changes in our assumptions around labor and benefit costs and that $30 million to $35 million range and as David said it's really the trends we've seen some modest deflation yet other items that have inflation like wood and freight those things are tending to balance out into flat or maybe slightly negative.
Ok and I guess it's a longer term question.
We're seeing a lot of the big brews making a big push into Mexico and shifting to cans and exporting a lot of their production in Mexico and the U.S.
How does that impact your business and those M&amp;A into Mexico become a higher priority down the road? As I told you before I don’t think it can be a higher priority than it's been.
I think I have been pretty clear that Mexico is an area now that we sort of did an acquisition north of the border.
South of the border has been a priority for us.
We have certainly seen that and we do a pretty good job of exporting actual cartons into Mexico.
We have converged down there.
We work to provide those products locally and you're right.
It's not just in Mexico you are seeing more cans but even in the craft beer segment we've seen more cans.
And that's great that means more take home.
That means more machinery more full packs.
So we are finding it good with that change.
As long as get wrap it in paper I am kind of agnostic to whether it's in bottle or can.
Your next question comes from line of George Staphos Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Thanks for the details and congratulations on the quarter.
Just some housekeeping the productivity in the quarter versus first quarter a little slow down there I am assuming that's just because of the year-on-year comparison that was created by first quarter '14's weather.
Can you confirm that or was there anything else ongoing in terms of deceleration of productivity obviously you did not change your goal for the year.
Yeah George.
This is Steve.
You said it right as Mike mentioned there was about $8 million of kind of quarter-to-quarter comp.
So really actual productivity was quite steady through both quarters.
We have the weather Q1 versus Q2.
So the $40 million year-to-date keeps us on track to 70 days for the year.
The other thing that is we did more maintenance downtime in this quarter than we did last year and that offset performance and when we're in maintenance we take that as a negative to performance.
That's how we do it internally to keep ourselves on just that we have actually improved the business not just moved it from debit to credit.
Understood.
And just on the maintenance side I would imagine that Dave most of that is just to keep the business ongoing.
But any of the maintenance downtime that was taken was there anything else that would be incremental to returns looking out couple or three years obviously at the Cogent project coming as well? Yes.
I think the maintenance downtime we saw in the mills really to keep the place operational.
Every time we do that like every capable company in the world we optimize some portion of that machine or some portion of that mill and you will see that in our productivity improve.
But as you can well imagine those things are well planned from the downtime as well as the improvement.
So when we tell you there is 70 million to 80 million of improvement some of it is because we need to do the maintenance and upgrades to be able to drive cost out for the rest of the year.
So I wouldn’t say it's incremental upside.
If there is a project big enough it really moves the needles then Mike will do exactly what he said.
It was say we're going to invest this above and beyond and you -- the things you should model in but that's not what was this in this quarter.
Having said that I will tell the operations went very-very well from the tonnage standpoint.
We ran our mills very well.
We produced great board and we sold and integrated that board.
So that part of the productivity improvements you saw in the quarter.
Appreciate the thoughts.
And then Dave could you all give us a bit of an update in terms of your ability to continue integrate with your CUK board and market's appetite for that board in light what seems to be fairly large capacity increase coming from the European producers both in folding box both work and recycle.
Yes.
I think the things that we talked about this in the past that really helps us is to strength the characteristics of our -- our sheets are just different than anything that's commercially available in Europe right now.
And so we are really positioning it into niches be it beverage some of the frozen application similar to what we have done in the U.S.
where there is a place for it that has a right for us to win.
And that's really been the traction we have seen as we have been able to get some of these conversions done in some of the new business wins we have talked about.
George we practice and you don’t.
But all that board capacity that's coming on is not the same.
A lot of it is very light caliper stuff it's 10.0 board which is great for top-sheets and other sort of food service applications not so great for making a cereal box or a frozen pizza box or anything like that because what happens there is you have to have lot more caliper in that grade to be able to get the strength and then you have to compete with SUS which is inherently with that pine sheet a much stronger product.
So I am concerned about competing with the stuff coming out of Scandinavia with SUS that's not really what keeps us up.
I appreciate the additional thoughts and I take one housekeeping and I will turn it over.
Did I hear you say that ex-acquisitions your volume was actually up slightly in the quarter versus a year ago? Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari of Citi.
Your line is open.
Just a follow up on the CRB market.
We have heard of course the market is fairly busy and you referenced four week backlogs but on the other hand the large package food guys haven’t really been saying that many good things about their underlying demand.
Are you seeing substitution out of other grades in the CRB or can you give a little bit more color on where you are seeing in CRB right now in terms of demand? Well two things; one is I did see some of the comments on consumer product companies and they're right.
Demand is not -- although if you look at in the quarter actually cereal demand itself was actually pretty good across board and we are seeing improving including cereal demand as well as a harbinger.
The other thing is that you got to remember that even in the last 18 to 19 months there has been a fair amount of capacity that's come out of business as well right.
So it's a balance relative to backlogs.
Because your question is why do we see backlogs and they say well their business isn’t growing but there've been a couple of paper board mills that shutdown and in fairness the Jonquiere closure while it is not a CRB sheet.
There is no question that some of the tons out of that -- like a 100 000 tons? Yes about a 105.
100 000 tons some of that is going to end up being a substitute through CRB and our package goods customers may not see it but others are going to so just the overall industry backlog are up the four to five weeks right now.
We're pretty busy on the CRB side of our operation.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just following up on Jonquiere with that closure will you be buying more SBS  externally or sourcing more SUS internally or how does that impact your board mix? There is small amount of additional SBS we will purchase Anthony but I wont characterize it as material.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just one last one.
A follow up on the full year EBITDA growth target you reiterated the 5% to 6% growth.
Apologies if I missed this but do you have an initial view on how you'd expect earnings to be weighted between 3Q and 4Q maybe relative to last year? We do not.
We don’t give that kind of guidance on the individual quarter I mean at this point in time as we said in the business we don’t see material changes in the way the -- I mean the third quarter starts back to school but we have got more European demand which is not the exact same demand that we would have had a year ago because our mix would have been different.
And less exposure North America than we had in the past.
Yes.
Anthony this is Steve.
To David's point as Mike mentioned we've a little more downtime in Q3 than we did last year so there is a little bit of that that will flow through storage but overall it won't be will materially different than traditional flows.
Your next question comes from line of Ghansham Panjabi of Robert W.
Baird.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
It's actually Mac Gregor sitting in for Ghansham.
How are you doing? My first question revolves around productivity.
So productivity results have been pretty strong once again during the first half of the year.
How much of the productivity improvement is a contribution for an acquisition versus organic improvement? And then the second part of the question is can you give us an early look at expectations for productivity in 2016? 2016 I have no clue.
What I would tell you is this that we sit down do our annual operating plan we will bottoms up that forecast and then we will lay them that against what our capital planning will be as well.
Our targets -- we have been traditionally in that -- total we are doing $60 million to $80 million every single year.
As I said in earlier call it's been more weighted recently towards investments as opposed to incremental.
However with the acquisitions what you end up seeing there is some of the acquisitions are quite as efficient or as effective as we are in our current plans or they are actually doing something that we haven’t done before and we apply that across to our business and that has incremental improvement on the operating side of the equation.
We don't really breakout improvement within the acquisitions versus the core because in a very short period of time they become a part of the course you can well imagine the [indiscernible] acquisition we started moving paper we started moving business cartons to and from those facilities.
Because two separate companies were sub-optimized in the Canadian market.
So it would be virtually impossible for us to trace back through making the carton now in Canada we are making in United States and figuring out which was related to acquisition versus which was related to on board.
So we try to give you a high level say look we expect to do $60 million - $80 million worth improvements.
We added the synergies in that mix so you have a pretty good guidance on that but breaking them down further seems to me a little low value.
Okay that make sense.
And then you mentioned that 2Q volumes were slightly positive so what are your expectations for organic volume growth moving forward in 2015 and can you just put that up by European volume and then North American volumes? No we will not.
I don't breakout European and US volumes.
We haven't done that.
We’re not going to start breaking out Europe at this point.
What I will tell you is that it's completely dependent upon the new sectors.
What we are seeing is as Michael said beer is then positive on our global basis soft drink is a challenged market take-home is a little bit better than on-premise but then the last that it has been a more challenging segment.
Frozen pizza was doing well and some of the dry fruits stuff is starting to improve a little bit.
But when I talk about improvement I’m talking about of a pretty anemic base.
So what I would say is we don't see any macro trends that are materially positive or negative in our space so we would expect our volumes to trend slightly up because that's what we are seeing but not materially different than what we’ve experienced in the first half of this year.
And European volumes are our European business is doing well we’ve gain some share over there some of the acquisitions have bought us new product opportunities that we did not have before.
And that's actually growing specifically in the case Benson.
It's been a great acquisition from new product stuff and growth in Europe.
And as Mike said that's the best thing the best way to think about Europe is the fact that three years ago we were selling 95 000 tons a day we’re over a 150 we’re heading towards 200.
So like you see some sort of feel for the kind of growth trajectory that we are seeing in Europe in terms of EBITDA.
The next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde BMO.
Your line is open.
I have got a few questions first just on capital allocation I mean your leverage is down at 2.7 times your stock was below $14 for a much of June and you only bought back $4 million where stack can you talk about that? Well of course high side being 20-20 if we might have we could have bought some more back and we’ve talk a little bit about that I will tell you that Mark Wilde we are really-really good at running operations and making acquisitions.
We’re new to the whole deal of buying back stock so as David talked about it probably just a little bit of a window in the second quarter.
However if my stock have been trading a 12.50 today you have may asking the question differently for sure.
But I will tell you is that I’m going to continue to stay focused on the three things in this priority.
Order one investing back in the business; two is acquisitions and three is dividends and share buyback.
And that will be worth our priority in the quarter.
Having said that if I was grading my performance I would say that we might have missed a little bit of window we did buyback our shares to maintain to keep the delusion down which we promised to do but we might have missed the little bit upside.
We’ll certainly continue to evaluate our process there.
We work closely with our board we have a process and with investment banks that we look at and we’ll continue to upgrade that as we go forward.
Well I just say David editorially it looks to lot of us on the outside that '14 you look pretty attractively valued versus other packagers so can you move into your second issue there which is -- can you just update us on the M&amp;A environment and maybe give us some sense of where you are focused from an M&amp;A perspective sort of domestic versus offshore converting versus mills? That's fair well right now we have certainly been focused on converting and geographic.
Earlier in the call I think it was George might have been Phillip mentioned the Mexico Mark we believe that is a hole in our portfolio.
We’re trying to -- because you see growth down there and you see some of our customers building facilities down there.
Right now we are attacking that market -- shipping from United States or using local converting partners so we just don't have enough capacity in Mexico to do what we want to do.
So we know we need to work on that.
There are a lot of great load of converting businesses right now Mark there are available.
They are probably interesting to graphic packaging because we might have an older facility somewhere that will give us an opportunity to upgrade through the acquisition or maybe a regional business a little bit like this year specific acquisition for craft beer that's kind of what we’re looking at and we’re seeing a lot of it.
And the pipeline is really good and good businesses.
And the other thing I will say while I’m on this is that well I hope we could do is more the things like we did with the Benson and with Rose City.
We’ve got great management team.
We’ve learned a lot from the Benson guy and we’ve learned some things from Rose City guys as well.
So that's the other part of these acquisitions that I like.
And we’ll work for that.
What you know that we do really good job making CRB and SUS and we buy a lot of SBS I mean we buy a lot of SBS but I cannot buy something that is not for sale.
But if and when yes as it b ecome available certainly graphic packaging will try to prove itself in the mix because I think there are some things we can do to improve that side of the business.
If you look at the SBS business overall in the US there is -- I think run differently that side of the paperboard market could be improved from margin standpoint at least that's our humble opinion in graphic.
Okay.
And Dave just to come back on Mexico for one minute would there be any advantage in having any mill capacity in Mexico or would you really rather just focus on doing converting in Mexico and just to shipping board of whatever type into the market? It's a great question I think we would leave with converting as we always have I would never say never to additional acquisitions for mill a capacity.
But I don't think Mexico would be the first place I would look right now Mark.
Let us built out our converting network for and then take a different look but for us it would be a stair step sort of approach right.
Yes okay that's fine.
Turning to this export of more at the SUS board Dave you have talked about I think having something in the order of a 150 000 tons of extra popping capacity in the system and I’m just curious as you are able to forward integrate more that is there a point here whether it's a significant capital bomb to allow you to convert that pulp in the board? Hey Mark its Mike.
I think the way we would think about that as we’ve talked about that we can run the business with around $200 million of CapEx and where we do incremental high value projects we’ll give you transparency into those and example of that was the co-gen that we’re doing in West Monroe here right now that would online in Q1 of next year we’ve got some projects that are in that kind of range from an  expenditure standpoint that can help us drive some additional tons and convert that pulp that we’ve talked about into additional paperboard and the projects that are in that 10 to $20 million range.
So its not some big capital infusion that we have to make and we are ready to make those as soon as we’re confident that those tons are there we like to trends we see in Europe we’ve got pretty good line of site to 200 000 tons we talk about over the next few years.
And so as we kind of head into ‘16 we will continue to give you some views into what we’re seen and what that means from a capital standpoint but it will be inline what the type of CapEx that we’re spending right now.
And we’re just not going to get out there making tons that we don't know were sold they are just no good I think good comes of that so at the end of the day when we sold those tons then we’ll make those tons and that's kind of been I know it's a conservative approach but that's kind of been what’s work for us when you running when you need reserve cash you just have to be smart over the way you spend it.
Dave if you look at the problems have been caused when people get more capacity than there is a market for I think that's a good strategy last question I had a just impact from the rising dollar in terms of competition I mean you’ve got another coded craft board producer down in Brazil their currency is a lot weaker now you have got a lot of recycle board capacity over in China can you just talk about sort of how what currency is doing right now in terms of competition and boxboard markets? <br>Mark this is Steve.
I think if you look at currency over the last year the movement has occurred and been in place for a while now and we have not seen any material impact relative to imported board as you know the travel costs the move of actual hitting the board from A to B is not a simple solution.
We also have to have a place for it to go and so generally speaking with the long term relationships though we have with our customers we haven't seen that as material impact on our business certainly on the CRB side where there's very limited and as Mike said the sub characteristics of the board being very positive we haven't really seen anything there as well.
So obviously there's the current scene in question.
We haven't seen that materially impact our business.
Mike anything you add to that.
No I think you said it well.
And number two Mark we said earlier not all board is the same board.
What's been made in Europe is a lot different from what's being made over here it's a great board very light calibre and you know in the United States that is being predominantly little lamb top sheet and so on to the light -- or maybe some food service business we're not heavily exposed to.
The China board Mark I cannot tell how many times we've talked about how scary it's going to be -- you know the capacity comes on in China and in the next quarter everybody's saying it just hasn't shown up yet.
And I kind of tell you that's kind of another quarter of more capacity coming online but just doesn’t show up in the United States.
Our next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon of Vertical Research Partners.
Your line is open.
First question is on Jonquiere the machine that was shut down.
I think you said about a 105 000 tonnes competes basically in the CRB market.
Could you talk a little bit about where the other tonnes went was it SBS high applications but maybe at the low end like cup and plate.
Yes so chip this is Mike Doss.
I wouldn't characterize 105 000 tonnes to be primarily on the CRB side.
As Dave I think he stated a little bit will come into CRB a little bit will come into SUS but the lion's share it was in SPS substitution product for food service and the like.
Cog sheet.
A little bit of cog sheet too yes.
And as you think about maybe one day getting an opportunity to get into SBS is there any aversion to get into more into food service applications like cups is that part of the attraction for you or would you want to avoid that and stay mainly folding cartons.
No I mean we are you know we talked a lot about folding cartons because it's easy to understand you know but we make a lot of these other things right.
We make trays we make plates we do a lot of food service stuff right.
The little trays the little boards and we do a lot of those things.
So any portion along that is part of our business.
But the issue is that it got it’s own non-integrated business.
So we can improve it in the converting side of the equation.
We can't do much on the board side which is why I said earlier chip to be perfectly honest and optimized mix across that as I think an opportunity for margin expansion across the vertical.
But you know we don't own it.
So we wouldn't have any aversion to any portion of end use sectors.
We like them.
They're growing there are people they are consumer based.
They meet some millennial trends.
You can see kids are being folks on the go all those are great trends that we capture in our core business.
It's just that we don't happen to own enough SPS board mills so I don't care as much about it today.
And in terms of food service Chip just to build on David's comment we already have a $250 million plus business where we're in those markets.
So we know those accounts.
That's very helpful.
And last quick question.
I would imagine with all the moving parts you're probably up around a 180 000 tonnes or so of SPS purchases.
Could you just remind us of all the M&amp;A activity where you stand in terms of your gross outside purchases of CRB and then you sell some of what you make I guess it's still around 15% and you might verify that.
Is that something you could share with us? So our SPS external purchases are in excess of $200 a tons a year and you're in the neighborhood on our CRB open market sales around you know maybe 15% of the production.
Are you buying any CRB on the open market even though you sell some? <br>Yes we do buy a little bit and we tend to buy the grades in calipers as you can imagine that either don't trim us off or we don't want to make.
And In Europe we buy all our PD board and a little bit in Mexico as well.
If you look globally if you answer the question globally we are net buyers of every grade Your next question comes from line of Alex Ovshey of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
You guys see much of the substitution in the U.S.? Well you mean for like between the grades Alex? Well from other substrates plastics corrugated into box board? We’ve certainly grown our pie.
I mean you know as well as by on this call that we got Mike went through a number of examples quickly but there is a whole bunch of substitution there that was from corrugated and a couple of them from plastics.
But we win -- I would say net-on-net we are gaining expanding pie in this space but it’s not look it’s about a 1% change year-on-year and that’s based across that’s kind of our target right new product stuffs about 1% acquisitions about 1% and moves back in board but that’s kind of how we get our 2% annual growth and then 5% EBITDA.
So we have good quarter in that space for sure.
And then you guys giving up on the idea of lower gas prices actually help in consumption for some of your end markets.
You think you see any of that benefit at some point here over the couple of quarters? I don’t know that I can correlate the gas prices.
What I can correlate to you more is the jobs and you saw the jobs report today.
It's okay but still kind of anemic if you think about where we were prior 2009 and where we are today.
And I know let’s talk about a little bit of job growth and things are down but it’s been a pretty anemic recovery and more than anything Alex that’s what we have to watch is oppose to whether the individual consumers have more money to pay we just need more people working and that’s kind of I think in the bigger impact on the business more than the benefit of lower gas.
Just a question on some of the cash item.
So for pension contributions and CapEx maybe looking into ’16.
Is there an opportunity to maybe see those lines item comes down in ’16 versus ’15? This is Steve I mean we’ll start to give a sense for ’16 a little bit later this year.
I mean you know the impact of interest rate bump up a bit though have some impact on pension calculations.
And we’ll play that out for you and as Mike mentioned we’ll be pretty clear on our CapEx expectations going forward above that core baseline.
And just last one on cap allocation.
If both on opportunity either transformative opportunity don’t really come up over the next couple of quarters.
Would you let your leverage fall below 2.5 or with the plug there be buyback? As you know I mean we getting down towards to is just by no means is optimal capital plan for us.
And you know that and even that math we can do here.
So we’ll have to address it when you get there.
Your next question comes from the line of Debbie Jones of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
I have two quick questions.
First on free cash flow you didn’t make any changes to that target each of your CapEx 10 million.
So I’m just wondering what needs to happen to get to the high-end of that range if you hold currency constant? Yes Debbie its Steve.
We lowered our interest expense expectations a bit to as well so the two basically kind of get each other out.
No changes of course in capital side.
So again have you kind of look at the high-end of your range that just is that working cap at the high-end or is it operational improvements.
What you need kind of achieve that? This probably working capital.
Yes there is a little bit in working capital.
But for the most part if you think about the guidance you got a little bit of CapEx up in a little bit of interest cost down and everything else for the most part is pretty steady in terms of the EBITDA expectations in the 5.6% range 5% to 6% range that we’ve been sharing driving the majority of that cash flow so no real material change.
My last question is as we can last quarter you gave a currency headwind for the year are you able to do that again? Yes it is 25 million to 30 million is what the current expectation at today’s rate.
So that your 100 euro 155 pound and 125 yen it’s in that $25 million to $30 million range Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
One last one I guess bigger picture of some degree we’ve seen evidence that the standup pouch market is growing a bit more quickly than it has in the past certainly having a little more impact in the market than 10 or 20 years ago when it first started coming out.
Do you see that as a net positive or net negative? Now intuitively say okay it's a competing substrate versus holding cartons but I could imagine that a lot of secondary packages that are used for pouches would be more likely comment on like CUK versus cans and competing products to pouches would tend to be more secondarily packaged in cargo.
So how would you have us frame that if its frame able at all? Thanks guys and good luck on the quarter.
Yes I think you did a pretty good job of answering your own question.
I think you are absolutely right.
If you think about something like a pre-son any time those pouches are for beverage applications which is the predominant and for usually is the package that's just surrounding it.
We put some functionality in opening feature we protect the product we make it easier for the consumer to store it so look out we’re not into anit-pouches.
We want them to grow.
So in total you see stand up as actually a net positive for this UK market overall? Yes because some of that is actually getting if you think about it we don't get to this some of them is actually giving at the little juice a little one of plastic juice bottles which are not necessarily a package in paperboard but when you get to a plastic pouches almost always in paperboard so arbitrage is not bad for us right and you are not going to put beer in a plastic pouch.
So -- Not yet I guess.
Yes exactly so is that kind of nicely the thing is really more that juice sort of market and some of that is transferring from PE bottles into pouches and then paperboard becomes the right way to protect that product so yes that's not a bad trend for us.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde of BMO.
Your line is open.
Just a follow-up I wanted to ask about that $2.3 million price decline sort of net of commodity deflation that you had identified? Yes this is Steve.
Just to put a little bit of color behind that as you know in some cases particularly in Europe for example we’re net buyer of board and as we’ve seen in earlier commentary around currency we’ve seen some declines for example in the craft of that board that really a direct pass to our customers we counted ourselves as price but its offset by the deflation that we experienced in that particular instance Europe ended up being a largest percentage to this quarter of that total then as some of those things started to roll through.
Our expectations have not altered at all relative to price offsetting commodity inflation first quarter we were up a couple of millions second quarter down.
Those things tend to net themselves out and we don't see that changing.
But it was a little bit of a European phenomenon for us in Q2.
But not but Mark make sure it did not EBITDA impact your board it shows up as a price reduction because the board blows through but then you are paying less for the board.
So EBITDA impacting Europe was negligible its just the way that just the way we account for.
Thanks that's help Steve just kind of since you’ve mentioned the European business can you just give us some sense of where you are at in terms of the improvement in operating margins that you’ve had out there for the European converting business? Yes Mark we are not giving actual margins.
This is what I would tell you is that that business operated solidly we integrated more tons into business and grew that business if you think about the primary drivers of how margins get better graphic a little bit of topline growth higher load integration and good operating results you can assume that margins in Europe are directionally correct for us for sure.
Is there much just from Dave separate from the board integration but just in terms of converting businesses themselves over there is there much of an incremental opportunity to just improve margins in those businesses? They have been absolutely have been they are really executing well over there we are really good team and they are flat running those plans some of our most I mean its embarrassing but some of our most efficient ship that plans right now or not in this continent.
And Mark its Mike if you think about it we’ve shutdown one facility down-sized another and optimized the loss cost assets we have there so our overall operational efficiency in Europe is a very good story.
We are trying to translate some of that back here.
Mike has got his teams working to be able to understand to do what we're doing in Europe in some case is expanding that back into our sheet bed facilities in the United States.
There are no further questions in the queue.
It's time I turn the call back over to David Scheible for closing remarks.
All right my closing remarks are to see you next quarter.
Thanks to Sherin.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of George Staphos from Bank of America.
Your line is now open.
Thanks everyone good morning.
I have couple of questions to start.
So as we think about the downtime at West Monroe and the incremental I think you said Steve or Dave or Mike 15 incremental days the normal.
Should that also not have a negative effect on EBITDA early in the year or how should we try to model for that? Thanks.
And then I had a couple of follow-ons.
Yeah thanks.
George this is Steve.
Just to kind of play that out for you a little bit and to even talk a little bit about this year the incremental inventory build as we mentioned will have a modest impact on the EBITDA this year and about $10 million build relative to the inventory.
We will then work through that in the first and second quarter.
So there will be some implications with the actual downtime that we will take in Q2 and that will be a $10 million to $15 million total impact in the quarter.
However the benefits from the actual increase in capacity will start to show up in quarters Q3 and Q4.
We will provide a little more guidance as we move forward but there will be some impact in Q2 that will recover in Qs 3 and 4 with the increased capacity utilization and availability.
I think the way to think about that is that net-net for the year since we're not really managing quarter-on-quarter we will have not much of an impact at all.
Okay thanks for that Dave.
Now again not to get too sort of micro but for the I guess free cash flow guidance or cash flow from net debt reduction if there is a $10 million effect from building inventory in the fourth quarter and I look at your slide now versus the presentation from second quarter the variance is at the high end more like $25 million are there some other factors that are affecting your cash generation for the whole year relative to your expectation or is the variance purely the inventory build relative to West Monroe? No it's the inventory build and a little bit of the EBITDA.
So we have $10 million of inventory build and about a $5 million EBITDA impact which is why we are now in that 5% to 6% range ratified range George and so it's really just a combination that leads us into that $340 million to $350 million cash flow expectation.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
And then to the extent that you can comment I will turn it over from here again certainly you've been not unique in this.
The trends at retail the trends in the consumer have been very mixed.
Can you comment at all in terms what you are seeing early in the quarter realizing that's pretty dangerous to extrapolate much off of 5 or 10 days? And is there any change at all in the tone your customers are expressing relative to their outlook for demand into the quarter and really more importantly into '16? Thanks guys.
I will take the first part of that which I think you answered your own question which is -- I am good at that Dave.
Well that’s you are married too you are well trained.
What I would say is that two weeks in we feel great two weeks in.
What I think Mike would say is well is that hey look our customers continue to be optimistic about their future.
Now having said that we have not necessarily seen in the previous three quarters that translate into actual selling of additional products.
So while they talk great and they certainly believe that '16 is going to be better than '15 I think we're in that -- you are going to have to show it to us and we are certainly not forecasting a major change in demand trends as we head into '16.
Maybe we will be positively surprised if that's not how we are planning our business.
Is it the same old optimism or is there something more tangible this time recognizing you so want to see it in the numbers before you believe it? Well we see them George obviously spending more time on new product development and in some cases cost cutting.
So they are definitely busy at work but to David's point we just haven't seen anything that would give us any real confidence that there's a tailwind we are certainly going to be able to ride.
So we're not expecting that we're not building that into our forwards.
And if it shows up that's a real positive for us.
I will tell you as Mike said frozen pizza was a good quarter crack beer beer overall was a good quarter around the globe.
So that's really positive.
I think predominantly our issue is really more in the cereal and dry food area specifically as opposed to across the entire product line.
So when you talk about it's really the question is will the guys making cereal for example start to get to some mojo back but pasta was a good quarter.
So a lot of it is just so end use market driven and each one of those has a separate consumer trend a millennial trend or a baby-boomer trend that's driving those dynamics.
And trying to find exactly divine exactly how that's going to translate into selling more cereal or cent of the aisle product very very difficult at this point.
All right thanks.
I will turn it over guys.
Good morning.
Looking at the G-Box acquisition you talked about the attractiveness of the Mexican market for quite some time but we've also talked about how it can be harder to do due diligence in Mexico and concerns about asset quality.
I am just wondering if you could talk a little bit about why G-Box was more attractive than I am guessing a lot of other assets you've looked at.
And then is there any kind of meaningful capital investments in 2016 or 2017 to reach those targets that you have on the slides? Hey Anthony it's Mike.
First off we're really excited about the G-Box acquisition.
As you’ve correctly stated we've been working on that for several years now really looking for high quality asset that we could have confidence in that we could bolt-on to our system and really deliver on both what we are paying for as well as synergies that we need to make it accretive.
And we believe we've found out with G-Box in many ways.
Now we will have a total of three facilities in Mexico we had already one so this gives us two more.
We are in the right spots.
These are well-capitalized plants that we purchased and as David mentioned we acquired an excellent management team.
And that management team is staying on with us.
So they're actually going -- we are going to scale them and they are going to help us run in that market.
So yeah we believe that we purchased very high quality assets and that synergy targets are achievable and that we can grow now with three facilities as opposed to just having one.
So we're quite excited about it.
Mike and I were down there so went down there in a month ago to visit the facilities and the management team specifically and it's a pretty small acquisition for us but what we were trying to assess is is this real do we believe the numbers they have been able to demonstrate growth but it's a well-tested management team.
They've got some excellent background.
They know their market they know their financials and so we came away feeling hey we are confident enough in this acquisition and it makes really good sense to put Graphic Packaging's logo on the front of the building.
So we are really optimistic about where that goes.
The other thing is that we’ve got a couple of customers who are relocating major manufacturing facilities down into Mexico and this – and they're very geographically located close to what we're acquiring.
So I think there's a great opportunity for growth.
And those acquisitions -- their movement down there is not necessarily to export back to United States but it's also to address the growing Mexico market.
So I think we believe there is a top line opportunity there and it's an investment that we felt we needed to be doing.
We needed to have a better position in the entire North American market with Cascades and now G-Box we feel like we've done that.
Okay that's helpful.
Is the mix between food and bev and other consumer and maybe industrials durables is that similar for G-Box to Graphic or can you talk a little bit about the customer mix for G-Box? Sure.
I would characterize it's right on top of what we do Anthony.
I mean they are doing beverage in that plant as well as consumer and a little bit of industrial.
So the mix of customers or customers we understand some of them are our customers currently.
There is new ones and as David said there is – some of our customers are scaling down there so we'll be able to take advantage of that and they have the right equipment to do that both in terms of Carded and some Litho-Flute which helps build out our same platform asset so very excited about it.
Okay.
And just last question.
Do you have an updated view on the contribution from M&amp;A in 2015 given that you will get a little bit of benefit presumably from Carded and G-Box in 4Q? The impact Anthony in Q4 will be very modest.
We've just acquired Carded we have to close on G-Box.
It will be end of November December timeframe so really no material impact in Q4 1 million plus or minus and really the key is standing up the relationships and executing on the 2016 commitments that we shared with you.
Okay I will turn it over.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Couple of questions.
So thinking about productivity over the last couple of quarters you've given us a number of things to be thinking about in terms of '16 versus '15 so the Cogen project the synergies the Rose City and Cascades.
If you were to think about the '16 productivity pipeline versus what you guys have been able to accomplish in '15 how would you sort of compare the set of opportunities? Alex it's Mike.
We'll have our ongoing commitment for productivity improvements that we've always guided towards which is $60 million to $80 million a year.
That remains unchanged.
As you know we treated the Cogen as bit of an allocation project given its size and we outlined the financials for you there.
We've got a big project with the pressing section and new head box on the paper machine in West Monroe that will drive 30 000 additional tons but as David and Steve both commented on we have to take some down time next year to get that and then we’ll get the benefits in Q3 and Q4 and into 2017.
So I think from your standpoint if you kind of look at your model it's very consistent to what we've been doing in the last couple of years.
Got it.
I guess the bottom line is $60 million to $80 million is the way to be thinking about next year? Yes absolutely.
I mean I think what we said all along Alex is that we're getting it somewhat differently now.
I think we've mentioned that we put more capital back in the business because we've got some great capital plans that we just did not have the balance sheet to invest in previously.
Now we're doing it.
It's not that there isn't ongoing improvement in Lean Six Sigma and the converting plants that are non-capital driven but I think it's a higher leverage towards capital based projects right now because we've got the money in some of these projects that have been out there under not funded.
So I think the rate remains about the same how we get there is a little bit different.
But we will stay committed to that range of productivity.
We believe it is the right range to be targeting given the size of the business and given the project approval that we have in place.
Okay appreciate everybody.
And then so on the cap structures even though you are aggressively investing in the business you are buying assets essentially you are going to end the year maybe even below your target leverage of 2.5 to 3 probably around that number.
So as you are at the lower-end I mean does that imply maybe a step up in share buyback or is the M&amp;A pipeline robust enough where it's more likely you will see more M&amp;A than buyback? How would you help us think through that? Well I think what we say is we have a very good view on the number one priority which is investing back into the business and we gave you some sight – a line of sight to the most significant projects.
We continue to see a pretty good pipeline on M&amp;A activity.
That's about all I can really say relative to M&amp;A today.
I don't think the -- I don’t think our -- I think where we are right now is that those will be the priorities in the fourth quarter it isn’t -- doesn’t say that as we get into ’16 we won’t increase or do more in the share buyback.
So if the other two buckets are filled but as we look at the fourth quarter that’s not our number one priority.
Okay make sense.
And if I can just ask one last one so box board markets I think you said that the CUK backlog is longer than the CRB one we saw move up in CRB prices.
So as you think about CUK I mean what do we need to see in that marketplace before maybe we have some price movement there given the backlog seem to be in very good shape.
You know Alex its Mike I mean our backlog as we outlined are strong and solid but it’s our practice for all the right reasons and to trust and not comment on what we would do or when we do in terms of pricing in the future.
I respect that Mike thank you.
I’ll turn it over.
Yes thanks very much and good morning Dave Michael and Steve.
My question has to do with first one you mentioned I think I got these right that you are now shipping about 150 000 tons annualized I think you said to Europe and your goal is to get to 200 000 obviously to push through your box your folding carton system there.
Could you give us an idea of how much of that 150 000 or the eventually 200 000 is in each of the three major substrate or two major substrates you produce CRB and SUS.
All SUS.
Hey Chip its Mike Doss our first time to talk nice to meet you.
I wanted to just clarify on that it is all SUS.
There is no CRB.
We do not ship CRB except for the most part to ourselves and somewhat locally we are a net buyer of CRB and it’s not a product we would consider exporting to Europe.
We will send it to Canada and Mexico but not to Europe not across the water.
Got you.
Okay that makes total sense by the way.
And then the second question is if I heard you right you said I know that downtime at West Monroe will have a one-time impact I guess the increment of about 10 to 15 million on EBITDA and cash flow I think I heard you say that the inventory bill would be about 10 million and I just want to make sure I think about this the right way.
If it’s 20 000 tons you could actually assume that’s about $500 a ton what seems like it’s a lot but there must be some other issues there that would contribute to that 10 million in the fourth quarter? Hi Chip this is Steve.
Just for clarity on the -- and as David mentioned as well the downtime that we’ll incur next year in second quarter will be offset by productivity and increased volumes in Q3 and Q4.
So there won’t be a net negative impact from that investment and we’ll start to see some positive net benefits as we enter into the second half of next year and clearly into 2017.
The overall impact of the cash flows at the end of year we put the whole value up on the balance sheet as you know and some of -- not all of it not all of that value ends up being cash as you said but there is no other major movement that we’re dealing with you’ve got the ton of [ph] cash you’ve got a little bit of EBITDA and a little bit of the actual inventory.
So its combination Chip to get to the 10.
You get some profit inventory hung-up as you know Chip you’ve been following this industry long enough to know that as you produce you got held up in your inventory if you don’t sell that inventory then you end up losing some of the EBITDA not necessarily the cash.
So it’s sort of a balance in that processing.
We’re not perfect enough to estimate it we’re just saying in a range.
So I don’t think what you can do is do the math you just did well 10 000 tons divided by this I don’t really think that’s exactly the right math.
What we’re simply saying is it’s going to be in this range of that and we won’t be a perfect build on the inventory.
To be perfectly honest there will be we will have to manage to figure out which inventory and what mix of inventory we build to make sure that our carton businesses are successfully supported as we head into Q1.
15 days of additional downtime is a lot of downtime in a mill the size of West Monroe that produces what 3 000 tons a day 3 000 to 5 000 a day.
About 2 500.
A day so I mean you can image that’s a lot of tons.
And Chip just again for clarity.
There aren’t any other movement that we’re seeing of subs since relative to our balance sheet.
Our cash conversion cycles remain intact our overall capital spending forecast remain intact.
So there is really nothing else moving we’re just as we look to the impact of this we wanted to make sure that we were appropriate in the guidance as we’ll steer the ship in at the end of the year.
Recognizing that we’ll sell that as we move right into the second quarter and return the cash to ourselves and to the shareholders as we move into next year.
Got you that's very clear thank you.
And then just a last one is it looks like both the acquisitions you announced on the folding carton side will be quite accretive certainly by ’17.
And my question on that 20 to 25 million of EBITDA improvement.
How much of that is if you will getting an extra margin shipping board from you know to your plans down there and in Virginia versus selling on the open market.
So just give us an idea of if any of that 20 to 25 million includes that.
And then secondly on the exchange rates I mean your timing seems great in Mexico given how weak the peso has been and I just want to make sure I guess you're assuming current exchange rates with Mexico when you come up with those numbers? We are we don't forecast any changes in exchange rates.
And for us that integration value that 20 to 25 will come from a combination in this in the case of Carded and G-Box it will be a combination of we have -- we’ll have some broad integration that will come along with that -- Carded for example almost immediately and G-Box will have some there.
There is growth also that we’re confident in that will come from Mexico.
And then as Mike mentioned one of the things that these acquisitions are providing for us in some cases are integration opportunities of our folding carton operations like Rose City allowing for the closure of Renton.
And so with the mid-to-long term in mind it will be a combination of board cost and facility consolidation or cost takeout and in the case of Mexico some growth.
And Chip the other side of the equation is a little bit what you saw in the same quarter is that to some extent we are investing in those verticals those end used verticals that are growing but we’re still having to offset the ones that are not.
So we'll talk specifically about soft drinks.
Some of the acquisition stuff is to fill the hole that’s inevitably being created by a change in consumer demand and soft drinks.
So neither of these acquisitions were aimed at soft drinks for example.
They were in craft beer or they were in other food areas that are growing geographically.
So some of that is not you don't add it's not all truly incremental there is some incremental portion of it we’re going to operate those facilities better but we’re still trying to make sure that we balance the corporation recognizing that some of our end-used market verticals are not particularly positive in North America.
Very clear and quickly last.
And mentioned craft beer which -- as you guys move more in that area are you finding that most of your solutions are tied to their bottles or actually is there -- are you noticing a big increase in their use of cans and you’re following them there as well? Chip it's Mike.
I mean 2015 has been the year of cans.
I mean we've seen a -- we continue to gain some share on bottles for sure but the transition to cans has been almost surprising for us to include placement of machines that support the craft brewers and to be able to get into the can format and you’ve probably seen the marketplace some of the decorations and decorating that they’ve done on the cans is pretty phenomenal.
So we’re excited about that for those customers.
I mean Chip Mike can properly tell you this is maybe one of our biggest machine selling year in the last five years would you think Mike? Yes absolutely.
A lot of machine to go correctly into the brewers so that they can can-pack multi pack cans.
Got you thank you very much.
Good morning Dave good morning Mike Steve.
First question is just this G-Box tap out Mexico for you guys right now or could we see guys do anything else in that market? I think it really starts a platform for us Mark that’s got scale.
So we don't view ourselves as tapped out in Mexico.
But one of the things that's nice about this acquisition Mark is that they've got a brand new plant in Tijuana area that they’re just now bringing up.
So we've got some real growth capacity built in that's why we don't feel like there is a whole lot of excess cash that we’ve got to put into that business.
We've got a pretty good platform down there so it may be a while before we actually need to if we fill of their facilities there is plenty of upside.
Okay.
I guess in Mexico just interesting to kind of watch the growth in the beer business down there and particularly watch the growth in cans which traditionally has been a big market for you guys I just wonder how much of that market growth you're capturing? At this point in time very little of it and that's one of the reason -- I think I talked about that on the call is that we get some of it but our facility in Queretaro is really focused predominantly on food we do some beverage but it’s not well designed for that.
But the facilities that we’ve purchased are already in the can market.
So the advantage we have is that we got a platform to build on that can market.
So hopefully we’ll be I mean hopefully hope is not a strategy we will clearly be able to improve our position on beer can sales in Mexico.
Okay another question just on offshore markets Dave.
I wandered with all of the currency moves that we've had whether you're seeing any more competitive pressure either from Europe or from you know like the box board producers down in Brazil and Chile? Hey Mark it’s Mike.
I mean we characterize that as properly being about the same that we've experienced for the last 12 to 18 months.
As I know you are aware I mean the big machine [indiscernible] doesn’t come online until first quarter of next year.
So I guess it’s we don't know what impact that will have.
They publicly stated they want to target the Americas but that substrate competes with something that we don't manufacture.
So at that point in time we’ll have to address that if and when it becomes a challenge.
But in terms of what we’re expressing right now is pretty consistent with the last 12 to 18 months.
And then Mike if I could just on these carton plants I used to cover another company in Atlanta that bought a lot of carton businesses and didn't really integrate them very well and it really came out pretty badly.
Can you talk about what you guys are doing to integrate all of these businesses to make sure they’re really all tied together? Well as you know our model really operates from the core and so we integrate them pretty quickly in terms of things like supply chain integration broad integration how we're going to balance that supply and procurement into our overall processes.
And in both these acquisitions that we announced and the one that we did up in Canada management came with us and has a role integrated right into our existing leadership team and that’s something we look for as opposed to just buying assets and putting all our people in there.
We feel that there is local knowledge particularly in the markets that we bought in like Mexico and craft beer but we’re getting outstanding managers and we test that during the diligence process and make sure that the chemistry is going to be fit for how we want to run the business.
We're pretty open about the fact that you're going to run our board or the board that we tell you you're going to run.
And the operating platforms and how we run the carton plants to drive productivity.
We are always looking for new and better ideas but we've got a way that we do it and we don't deviate much from that.
And Mark one of the things that we’ve talked about just before you choose that over time these converting plants needs to be recapitalized and when you get to that point you have really two choices.
One is you put new capital into yourself or two you look regionally and find out whether if somebody has already done that and you can purchase their whole business which includes the customer interface newer equipment and then sort of decapitalize your business and put your business in a new facility.
It's exactly what happened with Rose City I mean our facility out in Renton was in significant need of capital reinvestments we hope they hadn't put a dollar in that thing for a decade.
And it made no sense because it wasn't really a great platform for us out there to do it ourselves but when you combined with Rose City which was new better management team great geographic locations with lots of capacity it made heck of a lot more sense to move it in there and that's really part -- that's exactly what we did.
So if you think about the converting business not as an adjunct but as an integral part of how do you drive profitability back and you look at your alternatives versus your investment strategies that's the way we look at it.
And so some of these acquisitions are really built around improving our overall asset base without a direct capital investment adding capacity or adding new capitalization to old facilities.
So it’s a mixed bag and we make that decision on a holistic basis.
And do they go Dave immediately on the same systems the information systems that you guys are on? For the most part we run SAP it's a little less critical in the carton plants but the financials are all end up on SAP the floor-based are not so critical relative to being on SAP a lot of them are.
But if you can imagine our carton plant you’ve been at a bunch of them Mark it’s just not as critical.
Financials we don’t negotiate on that they all have end up blowing out through SAP so we got a direct visibility.
As Mike said we also integrate and we take over the purchasing decisions centrally.
So we immediately see all the builds on the general ledger information because we take that over from the center immediately upon acquisition of a converting asset in this case also in Cascades when we bought a mill system as well.
Okay.
The last two questions I had wondered if you could just comment on kind of price cost as we look into kind of fourth quarter and ’16 and then just update us on kind of debottlenecking opportunities over Macon overtime and what a timeline might look like there? Yeah Mark.
This is Steve.
Just on the price cost really we continue to see what we have been committed to and what we work to execute on which is that our price inflation deflation will offset cost commodity cost inflation deflation this year.
As you know we're rolling through some commodity deflation that is impacting price.
You saw where we’re at in the quarter that will likely play itself out in a common way in the fourth quarter and then as we execute on some of the CRB price increase and margin to ‘16 our expectations would be the same and Mike said it well and we just keep repeating it because it’s important we just don't see it as margin accretive it is really there to offset the realities of commodity costs and the occasional contract resets that we do with our customers.
And I will take the question on Macon.
I think the one thing we could comment on we just got then with our annual outage there Mark and we installed a dilutions pro head box on the Macon one of our Macon machines which as David said [Technical Difficulty] These are the types of projects that help us year in and year out delivering that $60 million to$80 million worth of productivity that we talked about.
And we got projects identified in Macon that we can build it out for sure but as we’ve stated we don’t want to make those investments until we’re very confident we’ve got those things sold.
We’re confident enough to do the crossing section in head box in West Monroe those 30 000 tons and as we continue to find acquisitions to drive additional organic growth that requires us to have more tons we know exactly which levers we will deploy over the next few years to take advantage of that [Technical Difficulty] Hey guys.
A quick question on some of the acquisition you made particularly on G-Box are the contracts pretty similar to your business in North America in terms of pass through and pricing? Yes there is not much difference in most of these contracts I mean as Mike said same customers so they don't typically maneuver differently in different geographies.
You know one thing to add there the team there has done a very nice job of managing through currency in addition to that.
So they’ve got an appropriate balance of dollar-denominated local currency denominated so that’s been an important part of their value proposition as well.
Yeah.
They've done a pretty good internal hedge against currency by the way they have constructed their business.
The guys are G-Box are smart guys and they are probably listening in today.
So I’m not telling you they don’t know but I like working with those guys they ask very hard questions about graphic sometimes harder than ones you guys ask and I like the fact that they were pushing back and understanding how could they grow their business how they make it better by using the resources at Graphics Packaging.
That's really what you want to hear when you make these acquisitions that are not right in your backyard and I was dearly impressed with that.
The profitability data that you guys have provided is quite high for converted business only 19% EBITDA margins has that been pretty stable throughout the cycle I mean you've obviously expressed some concerns in the past on Mexico so just wanted to get some color on that front? Phil this is Mike.
It’s been very stable through the cycle as David said they have got a very capable leadership team and a methodology they’ve used it’s been highly effective and I guess in terms of what that looks like as David commented earlier on we are buying high-quality assets and as a result of that we’re making very good returns and we said that look we are willing to pay up when we find those kind of opportunities where we believe that we can take advantage of both the EBITDA as well as the synergy opportunities and we think both these acquisitions fit right in that wheelhouse.
Mark asked the question earlier too Phil about how do you guys do these integrations well quite frankly you tend to think of it as where graphic buying and helping them understand how graphic works but what we found in our European acquisitions and in Canada is that we learn some things about how other people operate in their facilities and sometimes on some verticals better than we are.
So the key there is also translating back what we saw in our acquisitions with Europe was some people that really knew how to run a plant.
They were doing better in their plant that we were in many of ours.
So translating that learning back to graphic is one of the reasons why you’re seeing $80 million a year in productivity improvements.
So we’re an equal opportunity offender when it comes to finding better ideas across the space.
We’ve done a better job of doing that in the last three or four years than we did in the previous four or five years so I would expect that we will find the same thing when we look in these most recent acquisitions and Canada is smart too if you look at their margins they’re very good they run a good business there are some thing that we will learn on the new product activity there.
We can duplicate what they were able to do in their space across there is operating leverage as well.
That’s the key.
We don’t always do it.
But at least there is an opportunity set and that’s kind of the business management we hope for.
That’s the nature Phil.
And on top of that we were able to see that in our Rose City acquisition too in terms of how they went to the market and the regional customer set which is an important one as we've talked to you about.
So we need to continue to leverage around what these acquisitions do well and I've done it with the scale the Graphic Packaging brings.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
And I guess just one last one from me with the potential ABI SABMiller combination can you help us kind of frame what the impact it could have on your businesses there lot of overlap for you as well.
Thanks.
Well you're asking me to define what you think the department of justice is going to do and I've not been that good at that even here.
So what I would say is that the most likely scenario that's been proposed is that MillerCoors spins off so I would tell you in North America the impact for Graphic Packaging would be virtually nothing.
There is no combination there that the changes are in relationship with AB or with MillerCoors.
For the rest of the world I guess we'll see how that plays out.
That relationship is not as big for us anywhere else and of course in China we're still a pretty small player in China.
So no matter what happens in China it's a round off right now in our financials.
One thing to add to that Phil is AB has been very committed to bring [Technical Difficulty] of their brands which has resulted in moves to paperboard and so if you take the long-haul view of this and in terms of investing in the brands and paper board it should be a net positive on a global stage.
This is probably a 2017 question.
Hard to be perfectly honest.
Hope it all gets resolved.
Hey on the additional SUS investment what is the total cash cost of the investment I'm sorry if I missed that and is the additional capacity something that you see as the company kind of growing into organically or is it to support forward thinking acquisitions out there in the future.
Hi Ghansham.
It's Mike and so the range of capital investment for the head box in the pressing section will be between $35 million and $40 million of CapEx.
And we're making the investment because we're selling the tons.
Right.
As we kind of outlined in the call these bolt-on acquisitions we've done four of them this year really they all have some need for SUS tons and in addition to the progress we continue to make in Europe we're confident that we need those 30 000 tons now so we will build it out.
And is that capital specific to ‘016 or is there some there as well? Very small.
Small this year Ghansham and vast majority will be next year and we'll provide -- it's much like we've done this year we'll call that out very specifically for you you can think about it as an investment beyond the core $200 million that we stayed committed for maintenance and traditional spend so we'll call that out specifically but it's in that $35 million to $40 million range.
Okay.
And just one other question on the new product activity you referenced has that been impacted in anyway by the drop in plastic prices which at least were part of the portfolio could be a natural alternative for some of your customers relative to paperboard prices which have actually held up pretty well or in some cases increased has that changed the dynamics in anyway? So Ghansham as you and I have kind of talked in the past on this I mean our customers really take a long term view on their packages because as you know just peg whether it was a flexible application versus a paperboard application based on the price of oil you would always have that wrong.
Paper is always going to be more expensive and flexible but it’s got certain characteristics that allow them greater functional utility graphics and performance.
So in terms of how we think about that and we compete pretty aggressively every day in those spaces for alternative packaging applications and we’re not seeing anything that would suggest that we’re losing any share to those substrates.
Very quickly in the call first of all in terms of West Monroe is there anything unique to the press section that you’re adding to the mill and then in terms of just again this increase in box capacity that we’ve talked about over the last several quarters in the industry how is that adjusting if at all your strategy both on sourcing and for that matter on M&amp;A within the markets? So that’s the last question geez that’s a long one.
Relative to the head box in West Monroe it’s certainly new for West Monroe but it’s technology that’s been applied around the world it’s part of that process that we’ve said that we want to continue to invest back in these mills and now we have the balance sheet to do we’re trying to make sure that they stay world class.
And that’s exactly what we’re doing in West Monroe.
I think Mike would agree too that the quality required for Europe sometimes is a step up for what’s required here so this makes darn sure that both Macon and West Monroe stay current for our needs in Europe.
Relative to the box board changes around the world and I guess what you’re saying is with the addition of all the ivory board and those kinds of products does that change our view of the SBS market or the potential proactiveness the answer is no.
I mean we still remain first and foremost a converting business that backward integration generates cash.
So our SBS converting business has continued to grow both of these acquisitions we talked a little bit about SUS and CRB but they also use SBS in their business but we’re going to have to find that SBS on that outside.
Are we opportunistic about how we buy SBS oh yes we’re opportunistic about buying everything.
So this would not be different because it give us a view that long term SBS is not a good market.
We think if we can make it more and we can build our network out around an SBS that makes perfectly good sense for us if we own an SBS board mill but today we don’t and there aren’t per sale.
So our view is unchanged but our ability to execute around SBS remains the same.
And Dave just if possible if you can remind us the return on these investments obviously you are not looking at just at the ton of boards you’re producing but ultimately the incremental value that you’re adding selling it on an integrated basis around the world that return on something like West Monroe how much ultimately is driven by the improvement at the mill and the profitability of that board as was produced and how much is driven by the integration and the ultimate sale of that.
So weigh 60-40 30-70 or is it too hard to answer this late in the call.
And if so we’ll respect that answer too.
No.
George this is Steve.
The short answer is the mill economics have to hold their own.
So frankly the economics are driven.
We have to have confidence that the mill economics will hold their own because then we’ve got economics that drive through our integrated model that lead the store that 18% to 20% in total but the mill economic returns are there on this project associated with selling the incremental tons but that has to hold its own way.
But those tons will all end up through our converting network hours it’s not really driven for exterior sales.
So if you think about the mill it’s an investment behind the scenes for the converting business as Mike said we’ve sold those tons from a converting standpoint and that’s why are investing behind but on a standalone basis we will be making investment to sell open market board in our mill system no.
We stand up to converting the mill first and then we invest behind it.
Yeah.
I wasn’t assuming you’re making those tons in the outside market Dave I was assuming again it was going into conversion so I was trying to get a sense for how much is from integration how much is from just improving the cost structure of the mill but it sounds like you’re getting the return at the mill in the first place.
We want to hold the line on getting the return at the mill and then drive it through the whole integrated model.
Thanks very much guys.
We’ll talk to you next quarter.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning.
My name is Keith and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the Graphic Packaging Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Please note this is a 60-minute call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks we will have a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Brad Ankerholz Vice President and Treasurer.
Please go ahead sir.
VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</strong> Thanks Keith and welcome everybody to the Graphic Packaging Holding Company's fourth quarter and full year 2015 earnings call.
Commenting on results this morning are Mike Doss the company's President and CEO and Steve Scherger our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
To help you follow along with today's call we have provided a slide presentation which you can access by clicking on the Webcasts and Presentation link on the Investors section of our website which is graphicpkg.com.
I would like to remind everyone the statements of our expectations plans estimates and beliefs regarding future performance and events constitute forward-looking statements.
Such statements are based on currently available information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's present expectations.
Information regarding these risks and uncertainties is contained in the company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements as such statements speak only as of the date on which they are made and the company undertakes no obligation to update such statements except as required by law.
Mike I'll turn it over to you now.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Brad.
I'm pleased to be speaking to you today as President and CEO of Graphic Packaging and I'd like to personally thank the Board of Directors for their confidence in me.
I would also like to recognize David Scheible for his 17 years of leadership with Graphic Packaging.
David and I have worked together over the past several years to transform Graphic Packaging into a pure-play global paperboard packaging company with a clear profitable growth strategy.
I am proud of the work we've done and even more excited about the company's future.
We delivered a very strong quarter in the face of difficult end markets and currency headwinds.
Sales increased 2.4% adjusted EBITDA increased 5.2% and adjusted EBITDA margin increased 40 basis points to 17.6%.
Macro trends in the fourth quarter were similar to what we've seen all year long with selective U.S.
end markets remaining challenged and overall European market showing stability.
Despite sluggish U.S.
markets and currency headwinds we are executing against our three strategic priorities to drive growth and increase shareholder value.
These three priorities are: First invest in our core business to drive organic growth and lower cost.
Second make strategic acquisitions to enhance growth and expand channels.
And third return capital to shareholders to drive long-term shareholder value.
On the first priority of investing in our core business we invested $244 million in capital projects and delivered $74 million of performance improvements in 2015.We are benefiting from the investments we have made in our mill system and ongoing upgrades to our converting network.
Our second priority of making strategic acquisitions we completed three acquisitions in 2015 and closed the fourth in the first week of January.
So far this year we have announced two additional acquisitions.
All six of these transactions expand or deepen our geographic product and customer base in our core food and beverage markets.
And the third priority of returning capital should to shareholders we declared over $65 million in dividends and purchased $63 million of our stock in 2015.
This includes $40 million of share repurchases in the fourth quarter.
In 2016 we've already purchased an additional $20 million of stock.
In total since this time last year we've returned nearly $150 million to shareholders between dividends and share repurchases.
These strategic priorities served us well in 2015 and we see plenty of opportunities to continue to deploying our capital to drive future profitable growth.
Looking at some trends in the quarter.
Volumes in our global Paperboard Packaging business increased 4.6% in fourth quarter.
The increase was primarily driven by growth in Europe and the Rose City Packaging and Cascades' Norampac paperboard acquisitions.
If you recall we told you last quarter we would be building SUS roll stock inventory in the fourth quarter in order to efficiently service our folding carton customers during the second quarter of 2016 of a new press section and headbox on one of our paper machines in our West Monroe facility.
This paperboard would have normally been sold in the open market during the fourth quarter.
Adjusting for these tons our core organic volumes were essentially flat in the quarter and for the full year.
By comparison the AF&amp;PA reported that 2015 U.S.
industry production of our two primary grades was also essentially flat in 2015 with CUK up above 1% offset by a slight decline in CRB production reflective of the Fusion mill shut down in late 2014.
As far as our end markets are concerned the overall trends we saw in the fourth quarter are very similar to what we've seen all year long.
The global beverage markets continue to steadily grow led by specialty drinks and craft beer and our volume was solid in the quarter.
As you know we have increased our exposure to both the specialty and craft beer markets through targeted acquisitions and investments over the past several years driving net volume growth globally.
After several years of consistent declines carbonated soft drink sales were down only 0.2% in the fourth quarter a modest slowdown in the volume decline trend.
Food and consumer markets were mixed in the quarter.
As reported by A.C.
Nielsen industry volumes for frozen pizza products were up low single digits while markets for dry cereal frozen foods and facial tissues were all down low-to-mid single digits in the fourth quarter.
On the acquisition front we continue to make solid progress.
As you know we've been integrating our three European acquisitions and optimizing our platform for the past two years.
These integrations are substantially complete and we are well-positioned to continue growing in the region.
In 2015 we met our goal of shipping nearly 150 000 tons of SUS paperboard to Europe and we are tracking to our longer term goal of 200 000 tons over the next couple years.
As we have discussed the internalization of our U.S.-produced SUS paperboard remains central to our strategy in Europe and growth in this region provides additional leverage to our vertically integrated model.
The European marketplace remains highly fragmented and now we have a low cost scalable platform to build upon.
With the European integration nearly complete we will look for additional opportunities to invest in the region further leveraging our vertically integrated model.
In North America the integrations of Rose City Packaging and Cascades' Norampac paperboard business are nearly complete.
We continue to target 20 000 tons to 25 000 tons of SUS integration in these businesses within two years of the acquisitions and are tracking towards this goal.
Both Rose City and Cascades were important tuck-under acquisitions for Graphic Packaging.
Rose City broadened our regional exposure to the craft beer market allowed us to optimize our West Coast manufacturing footprint by consolidating volumes from three facilities into two and added a talented new leadership team to our organization.
The Cascades acquisition extended our relationship with many of our large U.S.
food and beverage customers in Canada allowed us to optimize our CRB paperboard network and provided us access to a market where we did not previously have converting assets.
The integration of G-Box in Mexico and Carded Graphics in Virginia two acquisitions that we completed over the last four months is well underway and progressing in line with expectations.
Both of these are strategic tuck-under acquisitions that supplement growth and improve our positioning by expanding our geographic footprint manufacturing capabilities customer base and range of products.
G-Box gives us a stronger platform in Mexico from which to build upon where Carded Graphics allows us to serve new and existing customers particularly fast-growing craft beer markets.
We continue to expect the acquisitions to generate approximately $15 million in EBITDA in 2016 with combined EBITDA increasing to $20 million to $25 million in 2017 as we integrate paperboard in growing markets like craft beer and geographically in Mexico.
In January we announced our intentions to acquire Colorpak and Walter G.
Anderson.
Colorpak operates three folding carton facilities that convert paperboard for food beverage and consumer product markets.
The three converting facilities are located in Melbourne and Sydney Australia and Auckland New Zealand.
Similar to our strategy in the U.S.
and Europe we are committed to growing our business in developed food and beverage markets and optimizing our global supply chain.
Graphic Packaging has been operating in Australia for over two decades serving primarily beverage customers using third-party converting partners.
Colorpak has been our largest converting partner and its three folding carton manufacturing facilities allow us to expand our proven integrated supply chain in the Australia and New Zealand food beverage and consumer product markets.
This acquisition will broaden our customer base and offer current customers a wider range of products.
Colorpak is expected to contribute $4 million to $6 million of EBITDA in 2016 and $11 million to $13 million annually within 12 months to 24 months.
W.
G.
Anderson is a premier folding carton manufacturer with a focus on store branded food and consumer product markets.
The company operates two world-class folding carton converting facilities in Hamel Minnesota and Newton Iowa.
These facilities are strategically located in the Upper Midwest where many of our largest CPG customers are concentrated.
The acquisition is a continuation of our strategy to grow in attractive geographies and end markets.
The addition of these two state-of-the-art converting facilities enhances our leadership position in the key North American food and consumer product markets.
We are also pleased to add a very talented leadership team including Marc Anderson along with his highly experienced workforce to the Graphic Packaging team.
The acquisition is expected to generate $14 million of EBITDA in 2016 and $20 million to $25 million annually within 12 months to 24 months.
Having received regulatory approval for the Walter G.
Anderson acquisition we expect to close the transaction this month and expect to close on Colorpak in the second quarter.
New product development remains an essential component of our organic growth strategy.
In the craft beer market we launched a new litho-lam 12 pack carton for glass bottles with a major craft brewing customer.
In the food market we worked with a major frozen pizza customer to launch a new line of frozen pizza at Walmart called Sasquatch Pizza.
This is an extra large pizza that utilizes our heavy caliber SUS and heavy UV window.
On the strength packaging side we used heavy caliber SUS to produce a two pack carton for Kellogg's Special K Fruit &amp; Yogurt Cereal and the Nutri Grain Variety Pack.
In microwave cooking solutions we launched a new pizza carton that features our proprietary MicroFlex-Q susceptor for even heating of the Gino's East of Chicago line of Deep Dish Frozen Pizzas.
Shifting gears let me make a few comments on pricing.
As you know we manufacturer two primary grades of paperboard SUS and CRB.
We convert over 80% of this coated paperboard into folding carton packaging for our CPG customers through our network of converting facilities.
We also make folding cartons for customers from paperboard purchase from other manufacturers.
This non- Graphic Packaging paperboard includes SBS in the U.S.
and bleached recycled and SUS alternatives outside of North America.
As we have stated in the past and has been our experience pricing and commodity inflation-deflation should offset over time.
Our carton contracts generally contain one of two price resetting mechanisms.
One is typically based on a basket of commodity inputs while the other is typically based on open market price of paperboard.
When we look at the RISI published pricing for our coated paperboard grades for 2015 they published $15 per ton decrease in SUS in February and a $50 per ton increase in CRB in August.
As a reminder these price adjustments generally flow through our carton contracts on an average of nine months.
Turning briefly to containerboard RISI published reductions in the containerboard pricing on January 24.
We have a single machine in our West Monroe complex that made 120 000 tons of medium in 2015 nearly half of which was used internally.
Our exposure to the containerboard market is less than 2% of total Graphic Packaging sales.
We are an integrated folding carton company selling end products directly to food beverage and consumer CPGs primarily on coated paperboard that we manufacture.
We are net buyer of containerboard as our folding cartons often ship in corrugated boxes.
Turning to manufacturing operations we had another strong quarter and full year.
Our U.S.
mills ran well and produced nearly 18 000 more tons of coated paperboard over the fourth quarter of last year.
The improvements in mill efficiency in the fourth quarter and the full year have been a result of our continued commitment to both Lean and Six Sigma principles along with targeted high-return capital investments.
As we have discussed before the leverage of our vertically integrated model comes from our ability to produce more paperboard in our existing mills and to integrate this into folding cartons for our CPG customers.
In 2015 we produced and sold over 60 000 more tons of coated paperboard from our U.S.
mills.
This increase does not include the tonnage we added via the Canadian mill acquisitions.
In the fourth quarter and throughout the year our mills ran full and our backlogs remained strong and consistent at around four weeks to five weeks for both CRB and SUS.
We've talked in the past about the excess pulp capacity in our system and our focus on growing our converting volumes to tap into this additional capacity to drive the operating leverage in our model.
The four announced acquisitions in 2015 the two new acquisitions announced in January and our growing platform in Europe provide us with the incremental demand to continue ramping up our paperboard production to capitalize on the operating leverage in the model.
As we discussed on our last earnings call we will do this by adding a new press section and headbox to one of our SUS paperboard machines in West Monroe during the second quarter of this year.
The new press section will offer a range of benefits including increased throughput better quality and higher yields resulting in approximately 30 000 tons of the annual incremental SUS capacity.
This is expected to provide added operating leverage as we move into the latter part of 2016 and beyond.
We are very excited about the project and believe it is right in line with our strategic priority of investing back into the business to support continued long-term growth.
As we shared in October we are planning to take approximately 25 days of downtime in the second quarter to complete the normal maintenance work and install the new press section and headbox.
That's about 15 extra days compared to what we would normally take in for an annual maintenance outage.
As we mentioned earlier in the fourth quarter we build approximately 20 000 tons of additional SUS stock inventory in order to keep the business running smoothly during this downtime.
An additional significant project that we are planning to undertake in the second half 2016 is the installation of a new curtain coater and other improvements on one of our Macon SUS paperboard machines.
We installed a similar asset at our Kalamazoo CRB mill in 2014 and have been very pleased with the quality and cost reduction of the benefits of the product.
The investment at the Macon mill will be approximately $30 million and will drive approximately $10 million of EBITDA upon completion.
Finally I am pleased to announce that our West Monroe Cogen investment came online in January.
As you know this was a capital allocation project that we have been working on for over a year.
In total we spent $30 million and expect to save about $10 million annually on energy costs.
We think this was an excellent use of capital and another example of how we invest back in the business to drive long-term profitability.
And with that I'll turn it over to Steve Scherger our Chief Financial Officer to take you through the quarterly financial results in more detail.
Steve? Thanks Mike and good morning.
As Mike shared we delivered another strong quarter.
Fourth quarter EPS EBITDA and EBITDA margins were excellent allowing us to closeout 2015 with positive momentum.
A few full year highlights.
Adjusted EBITDA increased $40 million to $751.2 million.
Adjusted EBITDA margin increased to 130 basis points from 16.8% to 18.1%.
Adjusted EPS increased $0.03 to $0.75 and cash flow available for debt reduction M&amp;A and return to shareholders was $345 million.
Also since the announcement of our capital allocation plan 12 months ago we returned nearly $150 million to shareholders with $112 million returned in 2015 and the balance thus far this year.
References today to EBITDA net income and EPS will be the adjusted numbers.
Pre-tax adjustments related to M&amp;A integration costs and special charges were $8 million for the quarter and $23 million for the full year.
Focusing on full year net sales revenue from our ongoing business increased 3.5% driven by improved volume mix primarily from our acquisitions.
Price was lower by $5 million in the quarter and $15 million for the year.
A strong U.S.
dollar translated to lower sales of $21 million in the quarter and $109 million for the year.
Turning to EBITDA we posted a strong fourth quarter increase of 5.2% or $9 million driven by operating performance and favorable commodity cost net of price which more than offset foreign exchange headwinds and labor and benefits inflation.
Looking at the full year EBITDA grew 5.7% to over $751 million.
Key drivers of the increase included $74 million of performance $29 million of volume mix and $4 million of favorable commodity costs net of price.
Labor and benefits inflation and foreign exchange each had a $28 million negative impact for the full year.
Cash flow for 2015 was strong as net cash from operations totaled $589 million or 12% more than 2014.
Excluding M&amp;A dividends and share repurchases we generated $345 million of free cash flow for the year.
We contributed $53 million to our pension plans and working capital grew by $20 million.
We continue to manage working capital aggressively and have maintained our key metrics in a relatively tight range.
Over the past few years we have when competitively required entered into extended terms of selective investment-grade CPG customers when low cost supply chain financing or accounts receivable sale programs were available.
The cost of these programs is in our EBITDA and the programs have been fully disclosed in our reported financials.
When we have utilized these programs to be competitive they have not resulted in a change in our accounts receivable metrics and as such they're not resulted an acceleration of cash collections when compared to prior periods.
We ended the year with $1.83 billion of net debt leaving our net leverage ratio at 2.44 times.
Adjusting for the G-Box acquisition which closed on January 5 our net leverage ratio was at the low end of our 2.5 times to 3.5 times range.
Our liquidity profile remains strong.
At year-end our average cost of debt was 3.2% and our global liquidity exceeded $1.1 billion.
Before turning to 2016 guidance I'd like to briefly discuss taxes.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 33.1% resulting in a full year effective tax rate of 36.3%.
This lower Q4 rate resulted primarily from the permanent extension of the U.S.
research tax credit that was enacted as part of year-end tax legislation.
Our NOLs ended the year at $470 million.
The year-end tax legislation also extended bonus depreciation through 2019 which provides meaningful cash flow benefits to Graphic Packaging.
Based on our analysis we now accept our Federal NOLs to extend through much of 2018.
Said another way we do not expect to be a meaningful U.S.
federal cash taxpayer until 2019.
Now turning to 2016 guidance.
We are committed to once again improving our year-over-year financial performance.
We expect 2016 EBITDA to grow in the 4% to 7% range driven by net performance improvements of $60 million to $80 million and net volume mix improvements primarily from acquisitions of $30 million to $35 million.
These improvements will be partially offset by labor and benefits inflation of $25 million to $30 million and foreign exchange headwinds of $15 million to $25 million at current rates.
Many of you have asked for a rule of thumb around foreign exchange and its impact on our EBITDA.
At a very high level 5% strengthening or weakening of the U.S.
dollar across all of the currencies in which we operate would result in a $10 million annual impact on EBITDA.
Moving on to cash flow.
We expect to generate $360 million to $380 million before M&amp;A debt reduction and return value to shareholders.
Bridging from EBITDA key drivers will be capital expenditures of $270 million to $280 million the West Monroe capacity expansion and the Macon curtain coater projects will drive capital spending above the $200 million base level we have discussed in the past.
Both projects have outstanding return profiles.
Pension contributions will again be in the $40 million to $60 million range as we focus on funding and immunizing these plans over the coming years.
Cash interest will be higher by $10 million to $15 million assuming modest interest rate increases and slightly higher debt levels.
Cash taxes will again be modest at $20 million to $25 million due to international and U.S.
state taxes.
The $360 million to $380 million of cash flow will fund our M&amp;A pay dividends and repurchase shares all consistent with our capital allocation strategy.
The G-Box Colorpak and Walter G.
Anderson acquisitions will cost approximately $320 million in 2016.
Dividends at the current rate will consume approximately $65 million annually.
At current stock valuation levels we will continue to be active in the market repurchasing shares.
And finally we expect to exit 2016 with a net leverage ratio in our target range of 2.5 times to 3 times.
The remainder of our guidance is contained in the presentation on our website.
Thank you for your time this morning.
I'll now turn the call back to Mike for some closing remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Steve.
In closing let me reiterate how focused we are at executing around our three strategic priorities.
The softness in many of our end markets and fluctuating currencies or headwinds that we've been dealing with now for several years.
We're not looking for these conditions to change nor is our growth dependent upon it.
We are committed to driving profitable growth by making smart investments in the business executing strategic acquisitions and returning capital to our shareholders.
I'd like to thank everyone for their continued interest and support of Graphic Packaging.
We look forward to speaking to you again in April to review our first quarter results.
I'll turn it back now to the operator for questions.
Our first question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey guys good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> First off on the $60 million to $80 million productivity for 2016 I guess the question is how much of the investments you are pursuing at current on a legacy Graphic Packaging base is impacting that range? I guess West Monroe and Macon? Hey Ghansham it's Steve.
In terms of the investments we'll make this year actually some of those investments will have a bit of a headwind.
As Mike said we'll have about $15 million of downtime in Q2 associated with the investment increase our SUS capacity.
That will be inside of that $60 million to $80 million of productivity.
So we'll incur some costs this year but we'll benefit from prior-year capital investments as well as our ongoing Lean Six Sigma and synergy capture that will have us in the $60 million to $80 million range but inside of that will be some of the costs that we'll incur associated with incremental downtime in Q2.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay great.
That's what I was getting at.
And then on Colorpak can you just give us some more strategic insight into what you found attractive with this asset versus other opportunities either in Europe or Mexico that you've been investing in? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Ghansham it's Mike.
Good morning.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We have been in Australia since 1990 in a meaningful way.
Last year we actually converted over 20 000 tons of SUS paperboard through third-party converters in that market.
So Colorpak was the largest of four converters that we used in Australia.
And we view that as an opportunity to get closer to our customers our customers like that when we control the manufacturing more directly.
And we're able to integrate those tons into our acquisition.
So it made sense for us to pursue that.
We've known Alex Commins and his team for a long time and we're excited to have him joining our business.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
I'll turn it over.
Thanks so much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari from Citi.
Your line is open.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Anthony? Anthony Pettinari your line is open.
Next question comes from the line of Philip Ng from Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Hey Phil.
The incremental 30 000 tons of CUK capacity you're adding this year how much of that can be consumed right off the bat because certainly you guys have announced a few more tuck-in acquisitions of late? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think the way that we would think about that for 2016 Phil is because the downtime we'll be taken in Q2 we would expect our production to be largely flat in 2016.
So really the incremental piece of that will be absorbed as we head into 2017 and the acquisitions we did both the ones we've done in the past as well as the ones that we recently announced will really drive that demand.
Okay.
But would you assume most of that like going into 2017 essentially consumed right after that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
We're confident we've got those tons sold.
As we talked about in the past that's the only reason we would make investments to make additional board as when we're confident that we have the tons sold.
Okay.
Yeah so we'll have the run rate as we exit out of the year so that you'll see the advantages of it primarily in 2017.
Got you.
Okay that's helpful.
The reason why I asked is there's fair amount of concerns out there and I think it's overblown on some of FBB capacity coming on in Europe.
And from a supply-demand dynamics I mean CUK CRB seems pretty tight.
But can you talk about what kind of impact it could have on your business could it put a lid on pricing down the road? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I guess if I took a step back and thought about the overall North American market for a minute I mean if you think about the SBS in and around 5.3 million tons I am working off of AF&amp;PA numbers CUK last year being around 2.5 million tons CRB being around 2.2 million tons you add it all together you're roughly 10 million tons.
Strip-out some of the top sheet and food service liquid packaging type grades on the SBS side it's a 6 million ton market.
So it's just who I think you're referring to as publicly stated they're going to target 200 000 tons for – I think last week I saw the Americas so that's a lot of geography.
And if you put 200 000 tons on top of 10 million tons you're roughly 2% if you put 200 000 tons on 6 million tons you're little over 3%.
So if you think about that in terms of the overall capacity expansion it's certainly not insignificant but it also is not something that's a tidal wave either as we would think about it.
Having said that do we expect in the short to medium-term there to be some headwinds particularly around SBS as the new producer tries to buy into a market where they are not integrated.
We could see that.
And as we think about that for CRB and SUS we think about they're probably having an impact more in terms of an overall ceiling on pricing as opposed to an expectation that we're going to see broad-based implications in a downward fashion.
Got you.
That was very helpful Mike.
And then just one last one for me.
I might have missed it on the call but you guys talked about this incremental Macon investment that's going to kick-in in the back half.
Should we expect any savings this year and is there any drag from a P&amp;L standpoint this year? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
Yeah thanks.
Good question there.
The way I would characterize that is that would be a second half project for us.
We're still trying to fine-tune exactly when we're going to do that whether it's Q3 or Q4.
We'll give you some insight into that on our next earnings call.
But the way that work is really cuts down on the amount of coating that we actually utilize on the sheet and specifically the amount of TiO2 we have to put in.
So it's pretty mechanical savings that's generated once we get the curtain coater up and running.
Again we've installed one of those already in Kalamazoo with outstanding results.
So we're pretty excited about that project and the incremental improvement on that will really be 2017-driven.
Your next question comes from the line of Danny Moran from Macquarie Research.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning guys.
Congratulations on the quarter.
Hi Danny.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Danny.
Inc.</span></strong> Backlogs appear pretty healthy in your business.
Can you give your view on current CRB and SUS fundamentals? Are we now past the seasonally soft period? And then how have demand trends been thus far in the year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You know Danny I think the way I would answer that question is if you look year-on-year both of those grades are pretty flat in 2015.
And as we start the year here a month and a half into Q1 that's kind of the trend we've continued to see.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And then given your different price resetting mechanisms relative to other paper companies and you being a net buyer of SBS would it be possible to give us the sensitivity to price changes in CRB and SUS grades and maybe even SBS on earnings? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well SBS is pretty straightforward because as we've talked about within 60 days to 90 days it goes up or down by whatever the movement was that's the way we structured those agreements because we don't manufacture that grade.
CRB and SUS it's much more difficult because there's a bunch of different resetting mechanisms.
But I think if you look at 2015 we've got some waterfalls in there that really show what pricing did and what commodity input cost did and that over time those two offset each other.
That's really our expectation and it's really been our experience over the last probably three years to four years.
Yeah just to adding to that Danny our expectation going forward is that our pricing would continue to offset inflation or deflation.
And this year we saw some net deflation kind of things that passed through one of the pricing models that we deploy and this year it was a small tailwind for us about $3 million to $4 million.
And our expectation going forward overtime is that that would remain neutral.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay very helpful.
And then I know you've been active on the M&amp;A front but how is the pipeline looking here? And then would you be interested in getting more exposure to a grade that might be more at risk of price declines? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Just a clarity question are you asking specifically about SBS? Inc.</span></strong> Yes yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Got it.
Yeah in terms of the pipeline we've kind of been a little bit of a serial acquirer.
So if you're looking to run a processor or sell your business we're probably on your list.
And we'd characterize our backlog as being healthy in that regard for converting assets.
In regard to SBS we've talked publicly in the past about an interest level there that we would have.
Now having said that we're in those markets.
We understand those markets pretty well.
We're buying almost 200 000 tons of SBS here in North America.
We buy 100 000 tons roughly of FBB board in Europe.
So we know those markets we know the producers we're in them every single day.
It's something presented itself in terms of an opportunity we'd take a hard look at it but again we know the dynamics and we would not pursue a bad deal.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks Mike.
Good luck in the year.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Danny.
Your next question comes from line of Chip Dillon from Vertical Research.
Your line is open.
Yes and good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Chip First question is if you could just remind us where you stand on the SUS integration net of the moving parts for the acquisitions and how much of the board is now open market and how much of the SUS is now integrated to your own conversion? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think in our 10-K that we're filing we're over 80% integrated right now Chip.
Got you.
Okay.
And then I think you mentioned not to get nitpicky but you mentioned Metsä in SBS you mentioned the Metsä capacity coming on.
Is there a possibility that the crosscurrents of that capacity trying to hit our markets though coupled with I think an even bigger impact from a shutdown that's supposed to take place quite soon in the Riverwood mill that may be that could actually create a disruption on the other side; in other words might there be some tightness caused by that at least temporarily? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I guess the way I would respond to that Chip is we also shut down a mill as you know in Jonquière Canada last year that made a little over 100 000 tons and probably two-thirds of that volume wound up in the SBS base combined with the major producer that you talked about that's in the process of taking one of their mills down.
So there are some tons coming down; at the same time these FBB board tons are coming online.
I think 2016 is going to be a real harbinger for how that all plays out.
There's a lot of moving parts and pieces right now but the biggest one that would really drive all that is what's the end use markets look like.
What's overall demand look like in the food and beverage space.
So far as I've indicated we're seeing trends that are consistent with what we saw in 2015.
If they end up being stronger perhaps there's little bit more to your point upside pressure; if they're a little weaker then obviously that would factor into that as well.
Okay.
And then the last one I think you might have told us before but the West Monroe project which adds the 30 000 tons any view of or just a reminder on what the EBITDA ultimate impact of that will be and how much capital is involved? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah the total project is in the neighborhood of $35 million to$40 million.
So if you think about that project along with the curtain coater that's how you get to the $270 million to $280 million that Steve talked about in his range for this year.
And the EBITDA return on that project is somewhere between $10 million and $12 million of EBITDA.
A portion of what we're doing there is maintenance; we're really at the end of our useful life with our pressing section on that particular aspect.
So we're able to do a couple things there get some earnings grow some EBITDA growth and also improve our quality at the same time.
So we're pretty excited about that project.
So said differently both the curtain coater and the project are – you're looking at about a three-year payback? Yeah yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah that's right.
That can be right.
Now if you look at it cumulatively that would be right and most of the positive impact will be in 2017.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde from BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Good morning Mike.
Good morning Steve.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Mark.
Just curious when we think about use of cash has the drop in the share price made repurchase more interesting for you versus M&amp;A? I don't think it's more worse but I think what you saw us doing Mark is as we've been very active in the market over the last three months repurchasing the shares that we outlined for you roughly the $60 million and at current valuations we would expect to continue to do that.
What it doesn't mean though is that we have to take our foot off of the opportunities that are in the pipeline relative to kind of the tuck-under acquisitions that we've continued to pursue.
So there's a both there that is available to us given the strength of the balance sheet and as Mike rightly said our balance capital allocation strategy is very important to us and those three priorities are what guide us.
But you did see us more active in the marketplace we believe appropriately so from the last couple of months of the year and into this year.
Okay.
And just sort of puts and takes from the strong dollar in terms of doing kind of offshore M&amp;A.
I mean I guess on the one hand it makes offshore acquisitions less expensive but at the same time it would seem like it makes it a little bit harder to move quite as much SUS to some of those offshore converters at healthy U.S.
dollar prices? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I think that's affair comment.
But it's still very profitable for us to do it even in Australia Mark.
And so we're pretty excited about continuing to look at those kind of opportunities.
Europe as you know has been an area that we've specifically targeted and we've grown our SUS integration levels there from when we started a little over 90 000 tons the last year over 150 000 tons.
Steve outlined some of the translation and transaction FX impacts of that and certainly something we think about and we talk about and we make sure we're making the right moves.
But on the other side of things we like the European market.
We think it's very stable for the types of products that we make and manufacture.
It's a large market.
It's still heavily fragmented and one that we think over time provides opportunities for our company.
Okay.
And Mike is it possible to just get some thoughts on sort of what you're seeing in kind of boxboard markets globally? There's been some discussion in some of the trade press about Chinese boxboard and then I always keep my eye on being down in Brazil with the weakness in the Brazilian economy and the real weakness in their currency.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
We've certainly for a number of years seen a little bit of Latin America board in this market but it's been pretty small and I wouldn't characterize it as increasing in order of magnitude at least not that we've seen.
The FBB board coming on in Europe has really been the stuff that has been chronicled pretty well.
I went through some of the math a little earlier on that.
I guess take a step back and talk about you mentioned Chinese ivory board in particular.
I mean it's a big market.
There's 11 million tons of ivory board if you add up all the capacity based on the information that we have and it's been that way for a long time.
And we've seen modest amounts on the West Coast with some non-integrated converters that have wound up there but we haven't seen that penetrate our core markets in a meaningful fashion.
Okay.
All right.
And the last question for you just benefit in 2016 from the coated recycled hike? Yeah Mark we'll see that flow through our financials as we said we executed on that $50 per ton increase soon after it was announced.
And it will flow through our economics on that nine-month lag as expected and as we talked some customers experienced that others don't if they're on a different model.
And it really just is consistent with our overall messaging of price offsetting commodity inflation-deflation but we've executed on that $50.
All right.
And fair to Steve that some of these changes in the PPW index that's not a real issue for you or any thoughts on that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I guess you are referring to the Series B adjustments they made Mark? Yeah exactly Mike.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
No we're really set on change delta change.
They just reset the overall numbers so that is not having an impact on our business.
All right very good.
I'll turn it over.
Thanks Mark.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Mark.
Your next question comes from line of George Staphos from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Hi everyone.
Good morning.
Thanks for all the details and congratulations on the year.
I guess first question I had you have West Monroe adding 30 000 tons.
Is it possible to talk about what might be on the drawing board in terms of the potential to further grow your internal tonnage obviously with a goal of further forward integrating over the next three years? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I guess if we take a step back George and I mentioned it in my prepared comments we made and manufactured almost 60 000 additional tons in 2015.
We're going to add another 30 000 tons now so we're starting to get up towards 100 000 tons.
We told you there was in the neighborhood of 152 000 tons 175 000 tons of capacity there.
So as we kind of think about dry powder which is I think where you're going with that it's probably somewhere in the neighborhood of 60 000 tons to 75 000 tons after we're done with the West Monroe project that we're going to do this year.
But again we will not look to execute those projects or add those tons to our base until we're confident that we've got them sold through our forward integration of our folding carton sales to our end-use customers.
That's our model.
No understood.
But it sounds like you have plenty of opportunity to do that based on the converting pipeline that you at least directionally talk to either in Asia-Pac or in Europe.
Would it be fair that you'd say that the pipeline is as good as what you've seen in the last few years or really with Benson and Contego and the like the larger candidates the better candidates have already been folded into GPK? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No I would say that it's still pretty solid.
Europe is a very fragmented market.
I'll remind you that the largest producer over there is still in the high-teens in terms of market share.
Okay fair enough.
I appreciate that Mike.
Next question I had just on the EBITDA guidance that we triangulated to what you've guided to from a percentage standpoint from the metrics that you have I think on the last slide of your deck.
What do you think the swing factors are in terms of the 4% to 7% growth is it purely volume or there are other things that we should at least know is in forming your guidance range of the 4% to 7% growth for EBITDA in 2016.
Yeah George.
It's Steve.
Even at 4% to 7% it's relatively tight range of $20 million plus or minus on 2016 EBITDA.
But there's a couple things in there.
One is we're taking a very significant amount of downtime in Q2.
It's a 25 days down.
It's a very significant and important capital project.
We've got line of sight to it phenomenal people leading it.
But it's a significant investment for us and we've got to go down invest and come back up.
So we're managing some potential variability there that would have a net impact on full year productivity.
And then as you know there's some swings that just are naturally there relative to FX and the like and you can kind of see those playing through the modeling that you're referencing.
As Mike mentioned earlier our core market assumptions will be similar to 2015 pretty flattish.
But that's one that we keep a watchful eye on that could have some variability down or up depending upon consumer buying habits.
Are you seeing any change in your customers expectations for the next 12 months either in terms of new product introductions or type of cartons they are introducing or for that matter any changes in the caliber of the sheet that they are using either up or down what the implications would be for you in your business model? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
In terms of spec changes I'd characterize those as being kind of what we historically see.
They are nothing really new there.
What I am encouraged about and we're cheering for them along these lines is a number of our customers are making some pretty sizable investments back in their R&amp;D and product development groups hiring folks that do food technology work and the like and really trying to figure out new products that are relevant to the types of things that consumers want to buy.
Now we haven't built any of that into our 2016 forwards so anything we get there would be upside but I'll tell you what these are pretty well-capitalized large CPG firms and they're focused on doing the right things for their business and we see those types of investments as positive.
Mike last one for me and I'll turn it over.
On the same vein of questioning and you may have talked about this in past quarters so to the extent that the consumer seems to be moving their purchase from center store to perimeter and moving from process to freshen all the stuff that we've read about in the press.
How do you think that affects your business? And can you move pretty seamlessly with that or to the extent that one of your larger CPG companies maybe – in the premise the question maybe wrong but let's say the CPG customer that you've traditionally dealt with is losing market share to the local producer does that hurts you at all? Thanks and I'll turn it over.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah thanks George.
What we've really tried to do is some of these acquisitions like Carded Graphics and Rose City Packaging have been to go after people that were servicing that regional food customers that you were describing.
We see those growth rates as going higher.
They're winning disproportionately right now in the marketplace and we want to make sure we're able to capture those kinds of games.
So part of the way we do that George is we have an active acquisition strategy that goes and finds the best in those spaces and we seek to acquire where it makes sense.
In terms of ongoing shifts in terms of center store versus perimeter of the store that's really where our R&amp;D and new product development is focused.
We've got products that are targeting those types of applications and really spending a lot of time with our microwave and strength packaging solutions that really appeal to those kind of products.
Thank you Mike.
Our next question comes from the line of Debbie Jones from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Debbie.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi I want to go back to that serial acquirer comment.
Going forward your strategy would you say that Europe is still kind of the strategic priority in terms of acquisitions and the rest of the world is a little bit more opportunistic in nature? Or would you say that Mexico and the opportunities in Australia and New Zealand also seem just as viable for you? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah thanks Debbie.
I think Australia was opportunistic for us and we talked about the opportunity to be opportunistic there which is great in that regard.
In terms of Mexico that being a focus area for a long time as you know and we're very pleased that we were able to execute on the G-Box acquisition.
Now we now have three facilities in the Mexican market and excellent management team led by Marcelo Belden who came with the G-Box acquisition.
So we like where we're at in Mexico.
We have high expectations for how we'll perform there.
So I think you characterized it pretty well that our focused in 2016 now having integrated three big acquisitions that we've done in Europe will probably shift back more towards Europe.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
And just one housekeeping in this free cash flow guidance what is your working cap assumptions? There'll be a little bit of pickup probably Debbie just because of the build that we did this year but pretty modest in terms of flat to small pickup.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
I'll turn it over.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Debbie.
Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari from Citi.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning.
On M&amp;A and integration in the slides you indicated Rose City and Norampac will integrate 20 000 tons to 25 000 tons and maybe you can get another 50 000 tons into Europe.
Can you quantify the additional tons you might be integrating from G-Box Carded Colorpak and Walter Anderson maybe as a group? And then just kind of a follow-up question given the large number of bolt-ons you've done and you've got some big capital projects going on are you at all constrained in terms of management bandwidth and would you maybe take a pause while you integrate Colorpak and Walter Anderson or is that not really a gating issue in terms of further acquisitions? Yeah Anthony it's Steve.
And I'll hit the board piece of it the paperboard piece and then Mike can add on to the leadership and bandwidth component.
And looking at them kind of piece by piece with Colorpak as Mike said we've got a good strong portfolio business there that's been more beverage oriented.
We can see some additional paperboard opportunities that we haven't yet quantified.
We don't own the business yet.
We're working through the regulatory and approval processes and targeting April.
But we'll come back I think at a later time and share where we think those opportunities could be but we do believe that there are some and we've been able to land paperboard in Australia very cost effectively for years and we would expect to see some integrated value from that.
With Walter G.
Anderson there's some – they are an excellent buyer of paperboard today not much with us but they've got a good strong network of paperboard providers that service them today.
We see that as really two world-class facilities that offer up some other opportunities as well around capital avoidance and the like.
And so we haven't put a large number around the paperboard piece there mostly because of other opportunities with an outstanding couple of folding carton facilities and a strong leadership team.
And then G-Box we expect to see growth.
That's a growing market and a growing business.
And so on both of our substrates as well as the acquiring that they do locally as we've said we can see growth in that 5% to 10% range of that core business our Mexico business over the next several years.
So we would get paperboard growth from G-Box as well.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And just to build on Steve's comments Anthony once we're kind of through the gates around the strategic fit and financial fit around any acquisition we take a step back and really look at our resources and make sure that we can operate a business that we're going to acquire effectively how best to do it.
We've gotten a fair amount of experience doing that over the last really three years to five years things we've done well and some things that we could do better.
And each time we do that we hone our process a little bit more.
I'll tell you we've got a small dedicated team that really runs those integrations for us coordinates the major activities in buckets to make sure that we hold ourselves accountable to the types of returns that we outlined for you when we go through those on a call like this.
So something that's on our mind and will continue to be on our mind.
But we like our ability to execute the ones that we've announced so far this year and feel we'll be able to deliver on the types of the results that we've outlined for you.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just a follow-up on capital allocation and the dividend; you obviously have low leverage strong free cash flow and you've talked about the share repurchase activity.
I was wondering if you could remind us how you're thinking about the dividend in terms of target payout desirability of future dividend growth maybe dividend versus share repurchases just kind of general thoughts on the future of the dividend? Yeah on the dividend we put it in a year ago we've been pleased with it as one of the tools for returning value to shareholders and obviously will continue with that dividend.
We don't have plans necessarily immediately on an increase.
We've talked; we'll assess that as we go forward.
I think what you've seen us do is utilize the other tool around share repurchases to enhance the volume that we're doing there with being active in the market here more recently.
And I think you would expect to see us continue with that as opposed to addressing a change in the inherent value of the dividends...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> At current pricing levels.
At current levels.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
I'll turn it over.
And our last question comes from the line of Mark Wilde from BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Just a single follow-on I promise.
Steve can you give us any sense of the benefit you might have had from the fourth quarter from the inventory build on the board side? Well we actually – in terms of – we did build roughly the 20 000 tons that we shared with you and actually that's board mark that we would have traditionally sold in the marketplace so we actually had a little bit of headwind on that in terms of not taking that paperboard and selling it into the open market.
So it's a bit of a use of cash somewhat modest there.
But it did have – it actually created some EBITDA headwind for us because we did not take that paperboard sale into the open market.
All right super.
That's helpful.
Good luck in the coming year.
Thank you Mark.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Mark.
And thank you for joining the Graphic Packaging call and we look forward to talking to you in April after our Q1 results.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.