Good day everyone and welcome to the Gray Television First Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Hilton Howell.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you very much operator and good morning everyone.
As the operator mentioned my name is Hilton Howell and I will make a few brief comments followed by Bob Prather our Chief Operating Officer and then Jim Ryan our Chief Financial Officer.
All-in-all we were very pleased with our results this quarter.
Although our revenue is essentially flat decreasing about 1% or $740 000 this is primarily due to 3 factors.
First reduced political advertising this quarter compared to last year.
In first quarter 2011 we reported $1.4 million in political advertising.
This compares to first quarter last year at $2.7 million a $1.3 million drop.
Second we received no political-related advertising this quarter.
And in 2009 we received approximately $2.8 million Olympic advertising revenue on our NBC-affiliated stations.
Finally the Super Bowl was broadcast on FOX this year and our one primary FOX-affiliated station and 4 FOX affiliated secondary digital channels generated approximately $200 000 in ad revenue this quarter compared to last year when the Super Bowl was broadcast on CBS and our 17 CBS-affiliated primary channels generated approximately $900 000 of Super Bowl revenue.
Even with these fairly large items this quarter our core local national and Internet sales excluding political advertising actually increased this quarter over 2010 by approximately 1%.
We believe these are quite strong results especially given the overall uncertainty surrounding the health of the economy as a whole.
We are also particularly proud this quarter that our Internet advertising revenue has increased by 38% to $4.2 million.
We are very happy with this robust growth in our Internet sales and expect it to continue for the foreseeable future.
With that I will bring my brief comments to a close and turn it over to Bob Prather for more color on this quarter and then to Jim Ryan for more on our financials.
Bob? Thanks Hilton.
Welcome everybody.
As Hilton mentioned here we got a really good quarter this time.
Frankly last year was an all-time record year for us and we were a little concerned going this year.
But I think I've talked a virtually all our GMs in the last 2 or 3 weeks and they all feel like business is better than they thought it was going to be this year.
I think the only cloud on the horizon right now besides gas prices which nobody's happy with but I think the Toyota Honda the various Japanese car dealers are all having some serious problems with inventory because of the tsunami in Japan.
We've seen some cancellations of some pretty sizable orders by Toyota especially.
I think this is temporary.
We all think obviously they will be back strong.
Hopefully sooner than later although I'm hearing it may be literally most of this year where they're going to be pretty strapped.
I think where reaching with one of our dealers this is a pretty large dealer sales of over 100 cars a month they've got 9 cars for his the inventory for May.
You can see that they're not going to be advertising a lot but I think the domestic guys are probably going to be jumping in.
As they say kick a man when he's down they'll probably start advertising even stronger.
But we'll get by.
Now most of our other categories have been performing real well overall but our first quarter is better than we thought second quarter is looking good.
Our third quarter we don't have as much visibility than we used to but we feel pretty good about how it's looking for the second and third quarter.
We spent a lot of time and mentioned on our last call with local HD.
We're fast getting that installed and we'll have it in 20 over 20 of our stations by the end of this year.
It's getting great reception everywhere we put it in.
As I mentioned we're also doing automations studio automations the same time in all of these operations which we think is going to make us operate more efficiently and frankly operate better in most cases.
The computers are very reliable and they're very good about making sure the right program is on the right time.
One thing we're doing in the new media area we're really trying to integrate Twitter and Facebook into our newscast both through our anchor people and through our own news directors making sure that we use these social media to make sure we're getting the word out.
I think most of you know Twitter was the first news source to getting information out on the Osama bin Laden killing even I think it was 5 or 6 hours before it was actually announced by the administration.
I think this is something especially young people are more and more going to for their news sources and we got to be there and got to be in the front of their mind and our local news to make sure that we capture these people.
Just interestingly enough I was talking recently to a lawyer friend of mine up in Nashville and he's early -- late 40s early 50s and he says he gets most of his news on Twitter now.
So it's something we going to be very aware of and something we got make sure that we're staying on top of in all our newscast.
One little note we had during the quarter that was not good news we had 2000-foot tower in Eau Claire Wisconsin got blown with an ice storm and heavy 70-mile hour winds.
Luckily no one was hurt.
There were no real property damage of any kind.
We are cleaning up the mess right now.
We are taking bids on building a new tower.
Our insurance is covering it 100% other than the deductibles.
And we've been -- our neighbors in that area and the other affiliated stations have been very helpful allowing us to be on their big towers and we literally missed virtually no service.
And I want to thank all of our competitors our friendly competitors as they were -- they've been very very helpful to us and we appreciate the fact that the broadcasters out here jumped in and were good citizens.
But I think it will probably take us about a year to actually get the tower rebuilt but we have like I said haven't missed any service for the meantime.
A couple of initiatives we're doing in the new media -- we doing a thing that we own 100% of -- one-car coupon rover which is mobile coupons that we have got going in 5 or 6 stations right now hope to have it in 15 stations before the end of the year.
And then we have a saying that one of our general managers developed it's called Moms Everyday that's been very successful and we're rolling that out to all the Gray stations with a website related strictly to mothers and their issues and things that they want to know about on a daily basis.
So we feel very good about both of these issues.
One thing you probably heard a lot about and I'll go ahead and mention upfront FOX network has been pretty aggressive in getting compensation from their affiliates.
We recently made a deal with them.
We feel very good about it.
It's a 3-year -- 4-year deal excuse me and well it's not something we initiated obviously I think it's something that we're going to see more of in the future and obviously we've got to make sure when we're doing our cable negotiations with the cable operators that we take this into account going forward.
But overall I think '11 is going to be a better year than anybody thought it was going to be.
As I mentioned I think that the only thing that really worries me on the rise is gas prices.
Nobody knows what $5 gas will do I don't think we've ever seen it before and if it comes in and stays for a length of time I think it could have a significant effect on the economy.
But right now overall we feel pretty optimistic.
At this point I'll turn it over to Jim Ryan our Chief Financial Officer to go into more detail on the numbers then we'll open up for questions.
Jim? Thanks Bob.
Good morning everybody.
I think Hilton kind of covered the highlights from the revenue standpoint Bob certainly talking about the operations.
So I'm making my comments very brief.
We're also very pleased that the broadcast expenses for the quarter came in at 48.2% which is less than we thought.
So we're in good shape there.
A couple of quick comments on the balance sheet.
The leverage ratio under our senior credit facility which is tested on a trailing 8-quarter basis was 4.26 at the end of the quarter.
We had debt of $831.6 million.
Senior debt of $466.6 million.
Cash was $9.8 million.
The CapEx spend for the quarter was $9.2 million and that does reflect the deployment as fast as reasonable possible of the local news HD that Bob was commenting on and we're going to continue this year to go as quickly as possible.
We have quite a few markets that are in process that we'll finish up this year.
And we have 4 markets that actually completed their install late third quarter -- or I'm sorry late first quarter.
Cash taxes for the quarter was $200 000 just out of some states for the year our cash taxes may be around $600 000 and again because of a very large federal loss carryforwards we have.
There's no federal taxes in our foreseeable future.
Program payments were $3.8 million consistent with the amortization number.
As Bob mentioned looking ahead to the second quarter.
We are pleased with what we've been seeing so far.
The guidance is in the release.
We are expecting growth in the local -- composite local national and Internet excluding political.
We've been somewhat fortunate so far this year with the unexpected political in Wisconsin over the budget issues there.
Later in the year we also will be the beneficiary of the special congressional election in Nevada which is actually a local Reno district and that was triggered by the resignation of Senator Ensign and an appointment of the city congressman to fill the Senate seat.
So we're looking forward to a little bit of windfall later this year in the Reno political market as well.
At this point Bob I'll turn it back to you.
Thanks Jim.
Operator at this point we'd like to open to questions from our listeners.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll now take our first question from Aaron Watts with Deutsche Bank.
One question for me on local versus national.
Can you maybe talk about -- I know national was last year faster to come back but can you give us your thoughts on do you expect local to continue outpacing national? And maybe what you're hearing category-wise in your local markets and how apt people are to kind of rejuvenate and bring back spending levels? Aaron I think first of all I think local will actually going to be stronger this year than national.
National had such a big bounce back from '09 and '10 but it'd be obviously hard to continue that pace.
I think national is going to probably be low single-digit growth this year compared to last year.
Obviously the car thing with Toyota may affected the -- we don't know yet exactly how that's going to affect things.
But I think overall we expect in local to continue to be strong.
And we're hearing from most of our general managers that they feel really good about the Local business.
I mentioned the only thing that would bother me right now is the issue of gas.
If these gas prices do stay where they are and continue to rise I think it could -- one thing that local if people start to quit driving much quick going to stores you'll see it pretty quick in those local markets especially the size towns we're in where there's very little mass transit or public transit where most everybody just driving is in the car that's out and about.
So I think that will be a factor on how local does.
But right now our paces look real good and we haven't seen the effects of it yet and I just think it's something we got to keep our eyes on.
Okay.
And in those local markets hopefully gas prices don't keep going on the up and up.
But you feel that if you lose some of the auto spending from your dealers can you replace that with other advertisers on the local level or is that going to be tough to do? It's not easy that is always such a big category.
We found out in '09 when the auto really got cut way back it obviously hurt everybody in the Broadcast business I do think as I said I mentioned with the Japanese car dealers we're seeing big pickups from the Korean Kia and Hyundai are advertising heavier.
And I think the domestic guys may jump in there at some point to take advantage of this lull in the market with Toyota and Honda and the other -- this and the other Japanese car.
If they do stay with low inventories and not much supply I think they will all jump in try to take advantage of that.
And we'll now take our next question from Marci Ryvicker with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> It sounds like your guidance is taking into account the potential slowdown in auto from what you just said in terms of your last answer.
Is that the right way that I should be taking it meaning are you are peaking higher than your guidance? Marci it certainly reflects everything we know of today.
Now certainly things could still happen before the end of the quarter but we've kind of tried to factor in everything we've known so far.
But kind of a big picture comment on second quarter is even with the slowdown some slowdown was seen in auto because of the disaster in Japan.
We're still actually tracking a little bit ahead of our baseline expectation and so we're really pleased with that.
Part of that above is again the strength in local which is a little bit better than we had anticipated.
And that does seem to be holding up so far.
And then certainly the overall numbers helped by a little bit with political being a little stronger than we anticipated as well.
And a lot of that political is really April money where the Wisconsin issues spilled into the judge rates within April.
So all in all I think we feel right now pretty good about second quarter even knowing that the Japanese automakers are probably going to be slower than anybody -- a little softer than anybody had anticipated.
LLC</strong> And I think you mentioned you signed your reverse comp agreement with FOX.
Did you say that? We have an agreement in principle and we're working on a long-term agreement with them now.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Can you tell us if it was a percent of retrans or a set fee? FOX is very sensitive to public disclosures.
So I guess I just say that we kind of like Bob said we at the end of the day feel it's a livable situation workable situation and we're just going to move forward.
LLC</strong> Is this in your guidance for the second quarter and for full year expenses? It really wouldn't be hitting anything in full of -- anything of any significance until next year and even then not so great extent at all.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then my last question you seem very excited about local news in HD.
So can you just tell us what benefits you see and I guess the positive reaction you're seeing in your markets from those that are up and running right now? Yes Marcy I think the main thing is as you well know -- I mean the HD penetration in the country now is way over 50% probably heading into 80% in the next -- probably end of this year or next year.
And people are used to watching HD all day long now with the network programming the sports especially.
And you know now when those bar show up on the side of the screen that it's not HD and they don't like those bars.
And we heard about it pretty quickly and I think I mentioned that we had a market where we were not the first one to go local HD and our station have been a perennial number 3 and the market went HD before anybody else.
So their next book it's jumped to number one is just because people if they got a choice they want to watch high-definition.
It's just a better product as I've been saying for several years now and people want it.
And the advertisers are really pushing even all your local advertisers for HD commercials because here again it probably looks better in HD.
And I just think we're very fortunate with the news leader in virtually all of the towns we're in or most of them and a strong number 2 in the ones that we're not number one.
I think it's incumbent upon us as news leaders to make sure that we are providing the very best product that we can to our viewers and our advertisers.
And I think people expect that of us and I do too frankly.
And I think there's something that we've been forcing it to be -- a leader mostly in the market for a long time.
I want to brag our comps we've got 16 stations that have been number one for 50 straight years or more.
We know that's a -- that's a long period of doing the right thing by these markets and we want to make sure we continue to do that and HD is here to stay and we want to be leaders in it.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll now move on to Bishop Cheen with Wells Fargo.
Let me focus on some balance sheet stuff.
You guys have done a great job in obviously producing the balance sheet and bringing normalcy out of chaos.
But that pesky preferred is still there and I'm sure it drives you crazy.
Is there any color you can give us on a preferred solution what you can do what you might want to do in calendar 2011? Bishop as you know our senior credit facility restricts us to not more than $10 million per calendar year of restricted payments.
So that's a very simple answer I think at this point.
I think it would be fair to say that we do think about the preferred a little bit.
We would like to be opportunistic but in a reasoned approach.
There is the restriction currently in the senior agreement so if we were to do anything beyond that certainly we would have to go to the senior holders and get a consent which does -- it's not impossible but certainly that raises issues as to what it takes to get something like that.
So I think we'd like to be opportunistic there at the right time and in the right set of circumstances and it's just something that we will continue to think about.
Sure understood.
And you just within the last 30 40 days I think you -- maybe it was longer you've already amended the credit facility recently correct? No we haven't.
No there's been no change to the credit facility since last year.
What you may be referring to is we did trick -- trigger the -- on April 1 the senior facility moved to a pricing grid and we actually were able to reduce our spread down to an L3 50 [ph] because of the leverage cast in the price...
And that was something that was already designed in that? Yes that was already built from a year ago and we couldn't use the grid for one year.
But on April 1 we became eligible for the grid.
Okay.
Alright.
And so moving on.
Yes we're very thankful that if the tower fall was not worse and all of that and plus.
So these things are they take a while can you give us a little color on what the deductible is and then how we might think about the timing? Usually there's some outflows and some special insurance payments.
Yes Bishop.
Of the top -- My recollection is the deductible is $50 000 so it's really not inconsequential to us.
Actually the insurance company has been very good working with us so far and have actually advanced us some funds towards the beginning of the rebuild process and I would expect that to be continuing at appropriate points in time as we look forward.
So there won't be a big liquidity issue for us front -- running it and settling up later.
From a business interruption standpoint as Bob said it's been negligible and so we really don't -- within less than 48 hours for all intents and purposes we were back to full market coverage.
And a combination of hardwiring into the large cable company as well as the both the Quincy station and the FOX station each allowing us to piggyback on their digital second channels to get our signal out.
And that allowed us to establish once again on the D2s got us reconnected with the satellite guys as well.
So it's other than putting 2 000 seat of steel back of the year over the course of the next year it's really a non-event fortunately.
And just from a pure earnings and rhythm standpoint it sounds like you don't expect to have any meaningful impact on the way the accounting works on your earnings or on how you need to guide us through things.
Well there will be eventually when we have a better ability to estimate the entire rebuild cost.
There will be technically a gain on the insurance proceeds.
I would think of it really as a non-cash gain simply because the insurance money the cash is going to come in and then come right back out to rebuild the towers.
So the towers -- the rebuild finance is from the insurance proceeds but there will be an accounting gain eventually when we -- if we take the money the amount that we will get from the insurance company.
And deduct the basis we had in the old tower which was about $100 000 and the differences is going to be a paper gain that will ripple through.
But again that's yet to be determined what that number will be until we get to a point where we can reasonably estimate it.
We're just not in a position to book it nor guess at it.
Okay well look knowing you you'll guide us through whatever we need to know for the resolution for earnings I have complete faith in you James.
And then the last question is the favorite it's a balance sheet and debt pay downs.
So if we can measure it either by leverage where you'd like it to be as you head into the 2012 political cycle or we can measure it by how much more debt you think you would be able to take down in the 3 quarters of 2011? Well let me start first Bishop.
We do have some incremental debt capacity in theory because we are below 7x on our second lien note indenture right now and we are allowed to incur debt up to 7x.
And obviously the natural cycle of the off year are maximum debt.
Theoretic that number is higher earlier in the year and slowly works its way down and by the end of the third quarter we'll be back above 7x on a trailing 12-month basis.
And other than revolver borrowing we really have no incremental debt ability.
So that's going to follow a natural cycle over the course of this year and obviously in a political year that cycle reverses itself and goes the other way.
I think at the end of the quarter on a trailing 12-basis total leverage was at about $6.1 million and again senior leverage was about $426 million.
As the year goes away we certainly think it will and hope it will so far.
I think your senior leverage is going to continue to fall probably into the very lower 4s and that's on a trailing 8-quarter basis.
Obviously the leverage level will tick up on a T12 basis simply because of the on-off year effect of the cash flow.
But we think we'll be in good shape at the end of the year either at or a little bit better than where we would have thought we would be this time last year and well-positioned for the 2012 cycle.
Fair enough.
Sounds right to me.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll now take our next question from Barry Lucas with Gabelli and Company.
A couple of quick items.
Maybe could you remind us what CapEx will be this year higher than normal for the HD deployment? And then where that falls off to next year? We're shooting for $20 million this year Barry and then next year I'd say -- Jim correct me but we'd probably would be more in the $15 million -- $12 million to $15 million range next year.
I would agree with that Bob.
And also just to be clear on the $20 million for this year that would exclude any CapEx off the tower rebuild that's funded through the insurance proceeds.
And again we're not sure what that number is going to be but that's covered by insurance.
That's not part of the $20 million number were talking about.
Okay.
Helpful and I'd like to think that as you said Bob that the domestic automakers will take advantage of the Japanese misfortunes.
But have you seen the domestic name plates ramp up their spending in 2Q pacings to take advantage? We have not seen that Barry with the domestic.
As I said it looks like the Korean Kia and Hyundai seem to be picking up those.
So they're not exactly friends with the Japanese anyway so maybe they're jumping on quicker than our guys over here.
And evidently General Motors and Ford seem to be doing well and maybe they figure they're just doing fine doing what they're doing.
I don't think anybody knows how long this part shortage and car shortage is going to last.
So it may be a 90-day thing a 6-month thing or a year thing I don't think anybody knows at this point.
The Japanese are pretty resourceful and I wouldn't count on that on getting cars built quicker than we think they can.
So I'm surprised domestic hasn't jumped up more but like I said we've seen it with Korean manufacturers but haven't really seen much on the domestic side yet.
Helpful.
I understand the sensitivity of FOX in these discussions on reverse retrends but is there any sense that you can provide that FOX gives something and doesn't just get it -- it's not just a call back? I'll let Jim answer that.
I get in trouble sometimes when I answer a thing like that.
Well Barry keep in mind we've got our FOX -- there's one low power and then 4 digital secondary channels.
So first of all our FOX would bring a tiny -- and in our case getting the cable space the MSO space for those digital especially the FOX main and programming both in sports and primetime.
It certainly -- what got us that very valuable shelf space.
So they're certainly continuing to provide all of that going forward and that does give us a strong -- a stronger position in order to have those channels up and active in those markets.
That's helpful Jim.
Last item as you look at the bank credit agreement I know it goes out to '14 but we still got some pretty attractive interest rates right now that are only likely to go in one direction.
So how do you think about credit? What are you think about going back to the banks and maybe amending and extending further or is it too early? How do you think about that Jim? I think it's something -- we understand first of all that the credit markets are very strong right now.
And that certainly rates are at what appear to be at least from what I've been hearing pretty attractive levels.
I think in very general terms Barry that's something to think about and consider.
Right now we do have a pretty well-priced agreement and it's LIBOR 350.
There's no LIBOR floor.
So there's a little bit of -- if you thought about it I agree in a long -- over time rates are probably going to go up.
So it is something to I think be thoughtful about as to whether there might be something to -- an opportunity to do something that is opportunistic but at the same time it doesn't necessarily drive up in a very very short term meaning this year and into the early part of next year wouldn't excessively drive up our short-term costs as well because we do have a very attractive deal right now.
So it's something to think about hard.
And gentlemen it appears there are no further questions.
Operator I want to thank everybody for joining the call.
As always I tell you we answer our own phones so call anytime if you need any other information.
And we look forward to hearing talking to you at the end of the second quarter.
So thank you everybody.
And once again that does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Gray Television Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn things over to Mr.
Hilton Howell.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator and good afternoon everyone.
Welcome to the second quarter and 6 months review of Gray TV's financial performance.
Thank you for joining us on this sort of infamous day for our country and our markets.
We appreciate your interest very very much.
As usual I will begin with just a few brief comments followed by Bob Prather our President and Chief Operating Officer who will add more color to this quarter's performance; and then to Jim Ryan our Chief Financial Officer who will follow with a brief discussion of our financial information and more information on the release we let go this morning.
We are happy with our results this quarter and think it speaks well for the TV assets of Gray Television as well as the resiliency of the broadcast television industry as a whole.
Our total revenue for the quarter advanced by 1% to $76.2 million from $75.6 million in Q2 2010 and exceeded our initial estimates for the quarter this year as well.
The increase was driven primarily by increases in local advertising and Internet advertising which rose 4% or $1.9 million and 56% or $1.7 million respectfully.
These gains were offset by expected decreases in political advertising during this off-year cycle and the national advertising which decreased by 59% or $3.3 million and 3% or $400 000 respectfully.
Of our 5 largest advertising categories automotive restaurants medical communications and furniture and appliances only automotive decreased and that by only 1%.
Restaurants increased by 7% medical increased by 16% communications increased by 10% and furniture and appliances increased by 5%.
We attribute the decrease in automotive advertising to the effects of the Japanese tsunami and the impacts it has had on the supply chain worldwide.
As a consequence we are cautiously optimistic that this will reverse itself out in the third quarter.
For the 6 months total revenue was essentially flat decreasing by just $200 000 to $145.9 million also driven by a decrease of political and national revenue and no Olympic-related advertising this year.
Whereas in 2010 we received approximately $2.8 million Olympic advertising revenue on our NBC-affiliated stations.
Furthermore the Super Bowl was broadcast on FOX this year and our one primary FOX-affiliated station and 4 FOX-affiliated secondary digital channels generated just $200 000 of ad revenue this quarter compared to last year when the Super Bowl was broadcast on CBS and our 17 CBS-affiliated primary channels generated close to $1 million in Super Bowl revenue.
When you consider the magnitude of these 2 items alone close to $3.8 million we are very pleased with our performance this year.
While there is a great deal of discussion of a second-dip recession and no one can predict what will happen in our markets after this unprecedented downgrade of the sovereign debt of United States by Standard &amp; Poor's we have seen no evidence yet of an advertising pullback in our local markets.
And consequently we remain optimistic about the balance of the year from all that we know so far.
I also want to quickly address the number of station groups that have recently come on the market.
While we at Gray believe that the broadcast business needs to continue to consolidate and in time we will continue to be one of those consolidators we currently remain committed to improving our balance sheet decreasing our debt and improving our shareholders' equity.
With that I will bring my comments to a close and turn it over to Bob for more color on this quarter.
Bob? I'm sorry.
I apologize.
I should welcome everybody.
Thank you Hilton.
On a day like today in the market I guess the thing for everybody to do is keep looking straight ahead and know things are going to get better.
This debt issue downgrade is obviously serious for our country but we've got to focus on what we can control and we can control what's going on at Gray Television which we plan to keep working on every day.
As I mentioned in our last meeting our focus over the last really last year and a half has been to get our local HD news going as quickly as possible on all our stations.
I'm happy to say we currently have 18 of our 30 markets with full local HD news.
We should have a couple of more finished by the end of the year.
Probably 4 more and then have maybe 8 of our small markets left that we'll hopefully complete next year.
So I think people are finding HD to be a great product.
More and more people are watching HD sets.
They demand local HD news.
And if you have a competitor in a market that has local HD news and you don't have it you'll feel it quick.
We continue to monitor the expenses.
We feel like we've got a very good handle on our expenses.
We think we will be down by the end of the year from last year with our expenses and we plan to continue to try to keep our expenses.
I think right now expenses are running at a level less than they were in 2007 and we want to keep this trend going.
We're looking at other ways.
We're looking at doing more with what's called backpack journalism using less live trucks less sat trucks.
This is a very inexpensive way to use the Internet and use HD technology that we've -- are testing in several markets.
It seems to be working real well.
We've developed some hotspots which will help spread the market size that we can use these units in.
But I feel very good about this.
We're looking at other efforts to continue hubbing things that we can do in our back office that the viewer doesn't really -- it doesn't affect the viewer at all.
And frankly they don't know or care where the product is coming from as long as this is a great product on the screen.
So this is something we're continuing to look at as a way to keep our expenses low.
I know 2 big areas everybody wants to know about is retrans both from the cable side of things and the network.
I'll address cable first.
We've got roughly 45% of our subscribers up this year at the end of December December 31 we'll be actively negotiating in the fourth quarter with the various cable operators.
We've got over 200 cable systems overall.
We have a lot of small systems in some of our old rural markets.
So we'll be actively negotiating fourth quarter to get new deals worked out with the cable operators.
On the other side of the coin the networks I'm sure you've been following FOX and their efforts too and they were pretty successful.
They virtually got every single operator in the country to go along with their demands other than Nextstar and Nextstar is still in negotiation on several of their markets but they have lost a few of their FOX markets.
So I think this is something we will continue to monitor.
We've been told off the record that the other networks ABC has already made deals although -- just for the good news our NBC deals are up next year.
We've got 10 stations.
Our ABC we've got 8 stations are up at December 31 '13.
And then our 17 CBS stations are up December 31 '14.
So we've got some time to see what's going on in the marketplace see what the other major groups out there are doing.
And obviously the good news is we've got time.
The bad news is once the market's kind of set it's hard to be an outliner from what other people have agreed to in the market.
But I think it's something we will continue to monitor very closely.
There was a great article I don't know if most of you saw it in New York Times today about Ad Money Reliably Goes to Television is the title of it and Les Moonves is quoted as saying that they continue to think advertising is going to remain strong.
Second half of the year I would say is we're going to be cautious.
I'm not sure -- it looks like third quarter we're very good about hitting our guidance.
I feel like we will.
Fourth quarter is so far away at this point.
I think it would be foolish for us to be trying to guess what fourth quarter is going to be.
But this year so far has been a very good year.
As Hilton mentioned most of our categories are up and even auto which pretty [ph] scared people was down 1%.
And I would say the auto would clearly be up if it hadn't been for the tsunami in Japan earlier in the year that curtailed the production of most of the Japanese car models.
So I think car business could be good in third and fourth quarter.
We'll see.
On the merger and acquisition front interesting times the Young deal we've heard has been called off.
They're not selling -- they're not for sale right now.
The Freedom deal I would use the term is on hold I think right now.
I don't -- I'm not sure if there's any buyers out there that are making any offers on Freedom at this point.
McGraw-Hill is an interesting group does not fit our profile at all.
They're bigger markets.
They're #3 stations.
Probably get some good upside from the expense side but they would not fit our profile.
And our #1 focus this year next year and the foreseeable future is going to be paying down debt.
We want to get our debt to cash flow ratio in line with the rest of the industry and I'd even like for it to be better.
But we're -- that's our #1 goal around here other than continuing our news dominance.
I always tell our managers every day when you wake up if you're #1 in the market I want you to stay #1 and get stronger.
And if you're not #1 try for #1.
And we just feel like as long as we put great news products on the air we're going be the dominant factor in these local markets and we think that makes us technology-proof in the long run because people want local news especially in the size towns we're in I think local is much more important than a city like Atlanta or in bigger cities like Boston New York Chicago.
Those cities are so massive and so spread out there's almost no such thing as local news.
But in our size towns our local news is a vital part of these communities and I think will continue to be.
The other one I did mention Nextstar is for sale.
It's a group almost as big as we are.
They have a good track record.
I don't know -- they've had a longtime financial sponsor that may just be deciding it's time to do something else for money.
That's the only speculation I got.
But I have no idea what will happen on the Nextstar deal.
At this point I'd like to turn it over to Jim Ryan to go through some more specific numbers then we'll open up for questions.
Jim? Thanks Bob.
I'm going to keep my comments relatively brief.
As both Bob and Hilton mentioned we were pleased with second quarter revenues and they've already commented a little bit on the categories.
Actually in second quarter aside from auto the only down categories we showed were financial insurance category and then the supermarkets.
So we're pleased to see the depths of the categories increasing in second quarter.
And then on the 6-month basis as both Bob and Hilton commented auto is still up about 1% year-over-year and the only categories that are still down are again financial and insurance which kind of makes sense with the housing prices still working its way through supermarkets and then entertainment a little bit very slightly down but that's probably more of a timing issue on movie releases.
Turning a little bit to the balance sheet at June 30 cash on hand was $3.5 million.
Our total debt was $830.4 million.
Our trailing 8-quarter operating cash flow as defined in the senior credit agreement was $110.7 million which placed our first lien leverage ratio under the senior credit agreement at 4.17 (changed from 7.14 at company's request as per its SEC filing) versus the covenant of 6.75.
So there's ample headroom there.
And on a T12 basis at the end of the quarter our leverage to T12 operating cash flow would have been about 6.25.
The preferred stock at the end of the quarter including the accumulated dividend was at $56.8 million and that -- of that number $39.3 million is the actual liquidation value of the preferred.
The remainder is the accrued dividend.
Briefly on our third quarter guidance we are pleased at the aggregate of our local our Internet and our national combined we're expecting to be up 2% to 3% with local and Internet leading the way and we expect the continuing softness in national.
We were exceedingly pleased with the strength of the Internet growth both in Q2 and Q3 and see that continuing for the rest of the year.
As we talked about on our second quarter call we have 3 major cross-company initiatives this year on the Internet front.
One is to roll out an Internet vertical site dedicated to the local level to dedicated to mom and family issues that we've branded ourselves and we've developed ourselves as Moms Everyday.
We've partnered with WorldNow to roll out several of their Internet verticals including medical or home improvement or legal.
And we also are rolling out our own white-branded mobile couponing initiative this year too.
We're -- on all 3 of those we're somewhere between 1/2 and 2/3 of the way through our deployment this year and all of our markets will be fully deployed by the end of the year.
So we're expecting very strong growth in Internet for the remainder of this year and then obviously continuing strong growth next year as we get the benefit of a full year deployment -- of a full 12 months next year after the deployment year this year.
On political we were pleased in second quarter.
It was certainly stronger than we expected.
Our record in an off year is actually it was set in 2009 was just shy of $10 million.
It's a little early to tell yet whether we'll beat or exceed that record for this year.
But certainly based on the strength of the first half of the year and our expectations for Q3 I'd say that we are certainly getting into striking distance of tying or setting a new all-time off-year political record.
And certainly with the budget compromise that was passed recently there is at least a potential late this year for we think some political money on the remaining budgets [indiscernible] that will be coming out what appears to be in December.
So that we again while we can't guarantee anything we're cautiously optimistic that late this year there will be some additional political that we wouldn't have expected.
At this point I'll turn it back to Bob.
Thanks Jim.
Operator at this time we will open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Bishop Cheen with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> So let me ask you sort of an odd one-off question.
If we're going to talk about buybacks normally we might be talking about your stock.
But given the beating that the fixed income the high yield debt has been taking in this correction do you have any capacity to take in some of your higher coupon bonds? I know you've been focused on that much higher cost of capital preferred but I just was wondering about your thoughts about arbitraging your balance sheet? Well a couple of things Bishop.
One thing that our bonds are selling at a pretty good premium.
That's the first thing which is good news and bad news if you're trying to buy them in obviously.
But on the other side of the coin we've only got $10 million right now of restricted payment availability.
And if we were trying to buy some stuff in we'd probably trying to buy some of the preferred in which we're looking at.
And so I think that would be more prudent for us to be looking at that preferred we get got on the balance sheet that we'd love to get rid of.
LLC</strong> Right.
It certainly is a higher cost of capital.
All right.
And then last question and I'll move it along.
You always have a certain amount of conviction when you look forward and when you talk about the year.
Given the uncertainties that our markets have gone through in the last 10 days certainly on the financial side has that rocked your world in terms of your conviction and your visibility and what you see on the revenue side? That's a good question.
I would say you'd have to be Rip Van Winkle for it not to have woken you up.
But I think this thing probably since the Congressional fighting took several months I think everybody has started kind of getting immune to the fact that we were going to have maybe some kind of debt downgrade and some kind of debt issues.
I will tell you we've talked to good many investors Jim and I both in the last few weeks and they all used the word "very cautious" right now.
That would be the word I would be using "very cautious." And like I said I think third quarter is starting out exactly like second quarter.
We were kind of slow in the first month picked up good in the second month and picked up good in the third month.
I'm hoping we'll have the same result like I said fourth quarter right now seems like a mile away.
But we're going to keep our head down and keep going straight ahead.
I think like I said we have some mighty good local markets with strong economies that hadn't been affected as much by all this stuff as some of your bigger markets.
So I think that's an advantage for us and I think we just -- we've got the old saying stick to our knitting.
So overall though I feel pretty good.
We'll go next to Marci Ryvicker with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Can you talk about the current pace of auto in the third quarter? I know it was down 1% in the second quarter.
And then just as it relates to your Q3 guidance are you incorporating any sort of auto recovery or is your guidance just mirroring what you're pacing today? The guidance would mirror what the pace is showing today.
There is always -- there's anecdotal evidence we've heard that Japanese manufacturers are stepping up inventory for late third quarter.
We've heard a couple of GM's comment that their local dealers are saying they're being placed on notice so [indiscernible] significantly more inventory late in the quarter but we're not betting on that yet.
We're going to wait and see if it really develops into a reality and then deal with it.
So we're really talking about current pace.
In the current pace of auto is running actually right now a little bit ahead of low single digit ahead but there's still quite a ways to go in the quarter.
So I'm not trying to be negative here.
I'm just saying that it's -- there's a way to go.
It's a little positive by a few percentage points and we'll see how -- we're hoping or not hoping but expecting at least that will hold up as we move through the quarter.
If we get gravy [ph] in September we'll be happy to deal with it.
LLC</strong> And then in terms of other ad categories it seemed like as companies reported the most recent reports have been a little bit worse than the earlier reports in terms of guidance and pacing.
So it feels like other ad categories have decelerated from Q2 to Q3 some that I focused on are restaurants and media and communications.
Can you comment on the ad categories outside of auto? I think that in a general sense that's correct.
There is -- if it is not an actual deceleration I think it is a -- everybody is having a sense of caution.
And I think some of that sense of caution is producing some choppiness in how business is coming in.
I think the visibility has tightened up on a relative scale this quarter compared to last quarter.
So it's kind of still tough with only basically one month in to see how the whole quarter is going to shake out.
But I do -- I think it would be fair to say that there's -- that up and down the line there is a little bit more sense of caution going into Q3 than there was in Q2.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Then my last question you did mention I think Bob that 45% of your retrans contracts come up for renewal.
Any thoughts on the incremental dollar amount that you're going to bring in in 2012? Marci I wouldn't want to give away our negotiating strategy right now but we feel like we deserve significant increase.
As I mentioned before in talking to these cable guys one of the things we point out we've got I want to say at least 1/3 of our markets where are our local news ratings are more than all of the cable channels in those markets ratings combined.
So we are a valuable resource with these cable operators and it is up to us to show them how valuable we are to them.
And I think in the long run we'll be able to negotiate some favorable increases and we certainly think so.
But anyway I think I wouldn't want to give away any other information than that.
But we'll be out there hustling in the fourth quarter to get these deals done by the end of the year.
We're very successful.
We're going to use the same strategy we did a couple of years ago which worked very well.
And we actually have our regional Vice Presidents actually involved in the negotiations and they know the markets they know the operators in the markets.
So it's working real good for us.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Aaron Watts with the Deutsche Bank.
So Jim maybe one quick one for you just to clarify.
Your payment for program broadcast rights line item that you used to calculate cash flow looks like after being pretty steady for a while it stepped up around $1 million.
Can you just tell me what was going on there? That was just a timing difference for the entire year.
I think it's going to go shake out around $15 million.
Okay so no big shift there? No.
Perfect.
And then also just so I'm clear in terms of your guidance.
The gap between the local and national performance is that mainly national auto? Is it just tougher comps for national? What's driving that gap right now? I think it's a little bit -- it's definitely national auto for one thing.
In general it would be national kind of in broad-based.
Remember national is very price sensitive in win [ph] on a relative scale things are a little bit softer.
We're not going to chase the national business quite as hard because we can do very very well with the local business.
So -- and also as far as percentages go you got to remember that it's still -- it's a very -- it's getting to be an increasingly smaller percentage of the overall sales.
Any kind of fluctuation starts driving the percentages one way or the other into a larger degree than the local.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then maybe one more on retrans.
I'm really thinking about your affiliation agreements as well Bob what you were saying before.
So you were able to reach an agreement with FOX and I know the idea of becoming an independent probably isn't the most appealing.
So would you characterize these agreements you're reaching not just with FOX but in general these new affiliation agreements as still being pretty good moneymaking opportunities for you when you think about retrans or you having to give so much back now that retrans has really kind of leveled out to more of a less positive proposition for you? Aaron that's a good question.
We're not far enough into it yet.
I could tell you our goal is to keep what we got now and add to it in our negotiations both from the cable side and the network side.
The FOX deal we've got basically 4 digital FOXs in small markets.
We do really well with them.
We think we made a reasonable deal with FOX on that.
That's the only network we've had any negotiations with at this point.
So my goal though is to keep what we got and frankly add to it.
And I think to do that obviously we got to negotiate some increases from the cable guys.
And as I mentioned I think we're in a good position to convince them they need to be paying us more.
So I think I'm cautiously -- I'll use the word cautious again but I'm cautiously optimistic that we can keep the retrans we got and add to it in the coming years.
And as I said the good news for us is we've got 2 years of ABC and 3 years of CBS before we even have to start talking to them.
The NBC thing will be more current as it's coming up next year.
So it will be a good -- we'll get a good idea at that point.
And we've been told recently by NBC that they probably are not ready to do any kind of joint negotiating until sometime late in '12 so that would -- and here again even then I think there's so many question marks.
I'm willing to listen to anything and willing to try things.
But I just think it's going to be very difficult to get enough mass to make that work.
But I think it will be interesting to see what type of proposal they come up if they do come up with proposal at some point.
But I'm optimistic we can maintain retrans and it be a continued source of revenue for us in the future.
Okay.
And then last one for me and I don't think you're going to have -- you won't have the firm answer here but just curious your thoughts.
You've been doing this for 1 or 2 years now and you've gone through the ups and down in the market.
You've seen good and bad.
We have bad news right now in general.
In your experience what's the lag time between hearing the type of news you've been hearing over the past couple of weeks and maybe specifically this week and last? And when you're going to start to get a reaction from your advertisers when you're going to start to see cancellations and that nervousness turn to actionable kind of pullback? You usually see the national guys first because their deals are longer out longer.
So if they're looking at putting ads in in November December for Christmas they may be scaling some of those back in the near future if they feel like they need to.
Our local guys are pretty steady in most cases.
And I think here again I think all of them are cautious.
I think all of them are waiting for the last minute to do things but we've got a pretty good roster of advertisers out there and they've been literally on our air every week for 50-plus years in a lot of our markets.
Local guys they watch what's going on around the world but day in and day out their customer traffic coming in and out of their store is more important to them than what's happening in New York or Washington.
So I think we'd see it national first and then probably if there is Gambian effect we'd see the local later in the year sometime.
Moving on to Barry Lucas with Gabelli and Company.
Inc.</strong> Not to beat the guidance to death too much more but what do you have squirreled in there for political in the third quarter to get to sort of low mid-teens total revenue decline? Barry the political number right now we're saying 3 -- probably 3.6 to 3.9 is the guidance range we've put out for Q3.
Right now I mean if I had to guess I'm saying we're closer to the 3.9 than the 3.6.
And like I said that would -- that puts us not a slam dunk but certainly beginning to get us in definite striking distance of being able to either tie or break our off-year political record of 10 by the time we get to the end of the year.
We still have -- we've been -- the Wisconsin recall elections that are going on right now and this week and next week for our markets but we still have the Nevada special election the Kentucky governor's race which is a standard election for this year as well as the -- also the off race in West Virginia.
So we do have some things that will add as third and fourth quarter go on.
Plus as I said depending on how things transpire in Washington as the year progresses there could be a possibility of issue money coming out on budget debate issues late in the year.
Inc.</strong> That's helpful.
And that was again $16 million year ago or so? $16 million a year ago yes.
And remember last year's political was an all-time on- year record for us at $58 million.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And as long as I've got you Jim given the comments about debt reduction and trying to knock out those preferreds I'm sure it's odd right now but how do you view the opportunities? Any opportunities for refinancing? Well as we've said in the last couple of calls I think we need to look at that on a relatively opportunistic basis.
As you can see from the tactical amendment we've got as a senior facility we now have an ability to address that better if the credit markets give us a good opportunity.
And I think it's a case of just being patient and seeing when and if that opportunity presents itself.
Inc.</strong> Good.
Last here should we -- maybe Bob if you could maybe touch on the whole spectrum reclamation issue and anything that may or may not have come out of the debt reduction proposals that could affect Congress or somebody trying to raise money to pay down the deficit? Yes I think that's still on the air Barry nobody seems to know exactly how that would affect.
I think Congress is obviously looking at ways to raise money without looking like it's taxes.
But I think the -- I still think we -- one good thing is we've got 40 digital channels on the air now more than any other group.
They're profitable.
We're doing real well with them.
We've got some extra space available for mobile live mobile and if that comes about which we're hoping it will.
So I think we can go before Congress anytime and say hey we're using the spectrum exactly like you want us to use it.
I think there are going to be people in some of these markets that get [indiscernible] station.
At some point it may be cheaper for them to actually go sell their spectrum but I think it will be voluntary.
And I think when that happens like I said there may be some people who want to sell but I think we use ours very well and we want to continue to grow our digital footprint.
I think we've got a lot of more local program.
We're looking at trying to do and especially in the high school sports area and even local programming that we're producing ourselves new shows or live shows or outdoor shows.
We're looking at various things right now that might make sense for us.
So I think we're kind of immune to whatever that's going on in Congress from that standpoint.
I don't think they can ever take it away from us what we've got.
But it wouldn't surprise me to see where other people could sell some of this spectrum at some point in the future.
Inc.</strong> Wish we can all be immune to what goes on in Congress.
We'll go now to Julie Gray [ph] with Columbia Management.
I was wondering if you could flesh out a little bit for us whether or not in your state capital cities that you're in whether or not government cutbacks have begun to affect the local economies at all.
Not that we've seen.
And frankly most of the states we're in we've seen very few cutbacks on the state government level.
And here again I think we're in some pretty good states that haven't been as hard hit with debt problems and problems where they really got issues on maintaining their solvency.
A state like Wisconsin obviously has been in the news but that state is in pretty good financial shape overall.
And I think it will -- states like these that we're in.
Georgia has their problems.
But overall we're strong.
We got a very strong credit rating and Georgia has always had a reputation of being a well-managed state and I think most of the states we're in are in that category.
I was surprised to see for example though even there are states like Kentucky's got $29 billion of unfunded pension liability which I was kind of surprised to see.
But compare that to Illinois with $140-something billion you realize there are some states out there with some serious problems but it has not really affected us at this point that we can tell.
Okay.
Just kind of a related question then.
How big of a category is government advertising for you? It's not very big.
I mean it doesn't show up on our -- it's not something we look at enough to -- and show up on our radar when we look at our major categories.
It's not a top 20 category? Pardon? It's not a top 20? I would be surprised.
I don't think so no.
We'll go now to Steven Pfeiffer with Wells Capital Management.
I was having some questions -- I was going through your disclosure on here about your network renewals with FOX as that the one expired in June just a couple months ago.
I notice that you have an NBC coming up in January.
Are there -- have you begun negotiations with NBC? No we're -- we'll probably start it during the fourth quarter.
Okay.
How long did the negotiations...
Normally I think they would normally approach us first.
And like I said we're frankly trying to wait as long as we can to see what -- if we -- we're keeping our eyes and ears pretty close to the market seeing what other people are doing at this point.
So I think that's something that like I said we're going to be keeping a very very close eye on in the next month or 2.
And we'll be talking to NBC in like said September early September most likely.
I see all your MyNetwork Televisions are going to be up and expire in the next couple of months.
Any comment on that? We have a very good relationship with them and haven't had a bit of problem as far as the economic turns we've got with them.
And we've been -- our digital channels have been very profitable and growing.
So we want to continue both the CNN and MyNetworks like we've got them now.
And any sort of expense on this front? What line item in your income statement will I see that expense show up in? Expense for what? For fees paid to FOX or fees paid to NBC or anything along those lines? Jim where would that show up? There's a modest amount and it's running actually as a program expense.
So it'd showed up in the [indiscernible] broadcast line.
It's not netted against the revenue.
Okay.
So and right now based on the FOX situation and NBC's or anything you're not predicting -- we shouldn't be scheduling in guidance for a higher expense on that line item because of those contract negotiations? Right.
Nothing would start -- like NBC would start sometime after January next year and so we would...
FOX the FOX for this year and next year really was a de minimis impact and not very large that we may grow a little bit in the future.
But again because FOX only involves 5 digital channels it's still a tiny part of the overall number.
Okay.
Also I'm sorry the last question I had on here your actual broadcast license [indiscernible] TV stations have been out for I don't know over 5 years.
Any idea when that actually gets done or it gets renewed? The commission has been sitting on those renewal applications not only ours but across the industry and they all come back to the indecency complaints and fines that were issued years and years ago that are still lining their way through the courts and we don't expect that the commission will actually finally proceed with the ordinary renewals of whether it's ours or anybody else's in the business until the courts make the final decisions on those indecency signs for instance the Janet Jackson wardrobe malfunction and the -- there was another one associated with the NBC program Without A Trace that's not even on the air anymore.
Okay.
And so you don't -- are there any fees associated with that renewal that we should expect to show up at some point or some...
No our renewal in the ordinary course is really just a very small amount of cost to process the application.
There's nothing big there.
And we'll take a follow-up from Bishop Cheen.
LLC</strong> Just one housekeeping.
The capacity and outstanding on the revolver today? We have full capacity.
Nothing is drawn on the revolver.
We have a full $40 million available and we currently have draw rights for the full $40 million as well.
[Operator Instructions] And gentlemen we appear to have no further questions.
I'll turn the conference back to you for closing remarks.
Thank you very much operator.
I want to thank everybody for joining in today.
As we always tell you we're easy to find we answer our own phones so if you've got any follow-up or [indiscernible] don't hesitate to call.
Thank you everybody and we look forward to being back with you on our third quarter conference call later in the year.
Thanks everybody.
That concludes today's conference.
Thank you all for joining us.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Gray Television Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I would now like to turn the call over to CEO and Co-Chairman Mr.
Hilton Howell.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
I thank all of you for joining us for this teleconference this morning.
I will begin as usual with the brief overview of our results followed by Bob Prather our President and Chief Operating Officer who will add his thoughts concerning our performance so far this year; and then our Chief Financial Officer Jim Ryan will follow with a brief discussion of our income statement balance sheet and more detailed financial data.
And as usual we will have questions at the conclusion of our comments.
We are pleased with our results this quarter.
As expected we have come up against tough comparables due to large amount of political advertising we received a year ago.
Political advertising which in 2010 set a record for our company in a non-presidential election cycle.
For the quarter our total revenue decreased by 10% to $76.5 million from $85.3 million this quarter last year.
This decrease is entirely due to the expected drop in political advertising of $10.8 million in quarter-to-quarter comparisons.
Significantly of our 5 largest advertising categories: Automotive restaurants medical communications and furniture and appliances all increased this quarter.
Automotive increased by 5%; restaurants increased by 3%; medical increased by 7% communications increased by 7% and furniture and appliances increased by 9%.
Last quarter our automobile-related category decreased by about 1% which at that time we attributed it to the effects of the Japanese tsunami.
And as we expected it has reversed itself this quarter.
For the 9 months total revenue decreased by 4% or $9 million to $222.5 million from $231.4 million year-to-date 2010.
Once again the main issue here is the political revenue declining as I have mentioned before.
But we also suffer in comparison from collecting no Olympic-related advertising this year.
Whereas in 2010 we received approximately $2.8 million Olympic advertising revenue from our NBC-affiliated stations.
Additionally the Super Bowl was broadcast on FOX this year and our one primary FOX affiliate station and 4 FOX-affiliated secondary digital channels generated only $200 000 of revenue this year compared to 2010 when the Super Bowl was broadcast on CBS and our 17 CBS-affiliated primary stations generated close to $1 million of Super Bowl revenue.
All of the issues that can account for our decreases in advertising were expected and planned for.
We are very happy with the resiliency and vigor of our local TV properties and expect them to bring 2011 to be a very successful close.
On a final note this quarter the company has continued to purchase in more shares of its outstanding preferred stock.
We purchased in the shares in private transactions from internally generated funds.
We consider these purchases to be part of our broader effort to deleverage the company.
With that I will bring my comments to a close and hand it over to Bob Prather for his thoughts.
Bob? Thanks Hilton.
I want to welcome everybody.
As Hilton mentioned we feel good about the quarter.
I think the TV business in general has been a better year than most people thought for most of the well-run broadcasters out there.
Political has been stronger this year than we thought.
Wisconsin union and recall we have a $3 million come in there.
Ohio is getting some of the same thing now and we've got a strong Governor's race in West Virginia that we didn't anticipate.
So we think there's going to be some rose very well for next year on political especially.
The main thing we're working on right now I mention every time we are fast getting all our stations up with local HD news and automation.
I think we basically are -- at the end of the year have 3/4 of our stations up and running with local HD views.
And we just got most of our small markets are left to finish up next year.
But I think this is critical for our competition.
I think we'd like to be the leader.
We'd like to be the first in the markets to do go-local.
We haven't been that in every case but I think most of the cases we have.
So it's something that we want to continue our leadership and continue to use our tradition of owning strong number one stations in our markets.
We also are very busy right now negotiating our retransfer our cable operators.
We've got 45% of our subs up this year.
Most of the big operators we're negotiating with currently except for Comcast and they're not up this year.
But we feel very good about the negotiations in early stages but we think we're going to get some good increases and some well-deserved increases.
I think TV has long been undervalued by cable operators and I think they're now realizing the value of especially TV stations with strong local news franchises like we have.
So this is something we hope we'll have these negotiations concluded by the end of the year and going into next year with new round of retransmission revenues coming in.
I know you all like to know what's going on at the other side of the coin with the networks.
Fortunately none of our affiliation agreements are up until next year.
NBC we have had eliminated talks to them.
Nothing definitive.
They told us they'll get back to us sometime by the end of the month to start talking about our NBC stations for 2012.
Our ABC are December 13 and our CBS which is the 17 CBS stations are December 14.
So the good news is we've got some time.
The bad news is that most of the market will be set by the end of -- what the people are paying the networks.
So we're keeping a very very close eye on this monitor closely with friends of ours in the business and something we obviously is going to be very important to us going forward that we are able to maintain our retransmissions growth on the cable side to more than offset our payments to the networks.
But I think this is something that'd be one of our number one priorities in the years ahead.
As Hilton mentioned we want to continue paying down debt.
Our goal next year will be to pay down $50 million plus in our debt which I think we'll be able to do.
So we're looking forward to continuing the rest of the year being a good year.
I just talked to our international rep firm.
They said auto and international looking strong for the rest of the year which we're seeing in our local markets so I think the year end is going to finish up good.
And as I said next year we are very excited about having the presidential election cycle having the Olympics back.
So it ought to be a great year for us.
At this point I'll turn it over to Jim Ryan our Chief Financial Officer and let Jim mention some numbers to you.
Jim? Thanks Bob.
Good morning everyone.
I'm going to keep my comments relatively brief.
I think a lot of the information has laid out pretty well in the release and our 10-Q will be filed later today as well.
Again total revenue was down for the quarter because of the $8.8 million year-over-year change in the political which is obviously expected.
Our local was up 1%.
National was down about 4% but actually came out a little better than we had expected.
It seemed to improve sequentially and definitely improved in September.
Our Internet as you know has been a focus of growth for us this year.
We had strong growth in the first half of the year.
Third quarter continued at up 57% and we are very very pleased to see that.
And our political for the quarter came in at $5.2 million.
Our all-time off-year record for political was $10 million and we expect that in 2007.
As of our October 31 closing we've already broken that record.
And as you can see from our guidance we'll be well north of $10 million by the time we get to the end of the year.
And political is each week seemed to be creeping up a little bit as we go.
I think Hilton covered the categories that are up in his comments.
The only 3 categories we saw decline aside from political was financial supermarkets and entertainment.
And those same 3 categories have been down consistently all year so that really didn't surprise us.
Our operating expenses were about 2% under on TV and we are pleased with that.
For 9 months again local national and Internet combined is up above 3% which given the overall state of the economy is and an off-year of political is not all that bad.
Again total political for 9 months was just shy of $9 million.
And as I said as of our October 31 close we've already broken our $10 million previous all-time record for a year so we are very pleased.
Operating expenses were up just slightly on a 9-month basis and within our expectations.
Turning quickly to our balance sheet at the end of the quarter total debt was $829.2 million.
Our senior facility was at $464.2 million.
We had $9.1 million in cash.
Our trailing 8-quarter cash flow is used in our firstly leverage ratio and our senior credit facility was $114.3 million which put our first lien leverage ratio that's defined in the credit facility at $3.98 million which is well below the covenant.
We as Hilton and Bob mentioned we had redeemed a little bit of our Series D preferred during the quarter.
CapEx for the quarter was $4.7 million.
Our program payments were $3.8 million amortization was $3.3 million.
We paid about $47 000 in cash taxes for the quarter and will be a de minimis taxpayer for the full year.
We've paid so far about a little over $400 000 and it won't be much higher than that on a full-year basis.
A couple of quick comments on our guidance for fourth quarter.
Certainly auto had been very strong in October and November.
We're pleased to see that rebound.
We've also seen I would describe it as relatively small but sequential week-to-week improvement in our internal forecast.
And if that trend continues we would expect that it when we get to December 31 our current revenue guidance may be looking a little conservative.
But we certainly would rather be sharing good news with everybody at the end of the year rather than bad news.
Most of the improvement we're seeing national is definitely each week improving a little bit.
I think that's primarily auto-driven.
We're also seeing again improvement in the political numbers.
As Bob mentioned we've had a good governor's race in Kentucky where we have 2 stations.
We have a governor's race in Mississippi as well.
Bob already mentioned about the special off-year elections in Ohio and Nevada.
We have not yet seen though any early presidential money at our 2 stations in Florida nor have we seen any in Nevada.
So that certainly leaves potential upside in political as we get into the very late part of the year.
There is also I think a possibility although certainly it's hard to predict but I think there could be a possibility of issuing money that comes out not only for us but other people in the industry as the budget super committee reports at the end of this month and then Congress enters its debates over all those recommendations in December.
It could set the ground for special interest money coming out similar to what we saw a couple of years ago during the healthcare debate.
We'll just have to wait and see how that develops.
At this point Bob I'll turn it back to you.
Thanks Jim.
Operator we're ready for questions now.
[Operator Instructions]  And our first question comes from Marci Ryvicker with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm actually going to cheat because I'm going to ask 2 questions for me and then 2 questions for Bishop because Bishop couldn't dial in.
But I'll ask them a lot more brief so I won't take up as much time.
The first question is for you Bob.
Just in terms of the advertising environment is anyone talking about 2012 yet? And if so what's the general tone? I've heard very little Marcy.
I think everybody's happy with what's going on in '11.
The visibility as you know continue to shrink it seems like in the industry.
But right now actually I'm feeling good about '12 because the political because of the Olympics coming back.
And the economy seems to be if not getting better it seems have kind of stabilized where we are.
And I think the people that I know there's still a lot of unemployment and a lot of uncertainty especially in the real estate area.
But I think the companies that are reporting good earnings.
I think companies are very cautious.
It's sitting on a lot of cash paying down debt like we're doing.
So in general I think people are anxious probably is the right word.
But at the same time I think people the consumers seems to be spending more than people thought they were.
And advertising is clearly been better I think and anybody thought was going to be.
Car sales seem to be going stronger.
I think now the Japanese are back in the market the car sales have picked up even more.
The Japanese obviously make good cars and no other settlement no other advertise.
So I think you're going to see that continue.
I was told that the national car sales are about 128% of plan for the fourth quarter as far as advertising sales goes.
So I think you're going to see '12 being a good year for advertising in general and I think it's going to be a real good year for us.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I'll stick with you Bob.
In terms of M&amp;A there have been a lot of transactions.
Are you guys a net buyer? A net seller? Any thoughts on M&amp;A? I'd say we are in net status quo-er.
We're happy with the stations we got.
We want to continue to improve our balance sheet and pay down debt.
So I think that right now we would probably be status quo-er.
I'd say we've got great stations strong stations in most of our markets and we're happy where we are.
I just want to keep getting better on what we're doing.
LLC Research Division</strong> And a few housekeeping questions for Jim.
Any thoughts on operating expenses and CapEx for next year? I don't know if you've had your budget meeting up but anything you're thinking? And then also any game plan for redeeming the preferreds? Any timing you can put on that? Let me we're still on the early end working 2012 budget.
I think in the broad sense Marci as you know with the large influx of political we'll have next year we do have to face our national rep commission on that of about it averages about 7% so that's a couple of million dollars $2 million to $3 million probably $3 million actually that tick up at any major political year.
We've done well this year controlling the cost.
So I wouldn't expect a significant increase in cost going into next year with the one caveat there's probably something that will end up being paid to NBC as we renew the affiliation agreement.
That seems to be the set trend.
Now how many I wouldn't expect it to be a lot of money next year.
But at this point I have no idea exactly how much that is.
But excluding the impact of that I would not expect a significant increase.
And we'll try hard to keep it closer to flat than anything.
On the on the preferred we have said we'd like to be opportunistic there if we can.
We obviously picked up almost $10 million between par and accrued dividend because our first lien ratio is now below 4x under our senior facility.
This year we have a technical capacity for an additional 10.
I think it will whether we do anything sooner or a little farther down the road is really going to depend on our cash position and how well we feel.
We certainly would like to do something with that.
But I don't think we necessarily want to be extensively borrowing on the revolver for any protracted amount of time to do anything either.
So it will be a little bit of a balancing act.
The other rest of this year comes out maybe and take it as we come.
Certainly next year our cash position will be much much stronger with the political.
We'll also be paying down debt.
And we've also said if the larger credit markets give us a good opportunity we certainly would be willing to be thoughtful about the potential refinancing transactions as well.
So if obviously we're doing a larger refinancing transaction we would want to be taking up the preferred at the same time.
Marci I want to thank you personally for the job you do for the whole industry.
We appreciate it.
I know first of all you shoot straight but also you're kind of a beacon of light out there in an industry where we've seen a shrinkage with people following us.
So we all appreciate the job you do and you do a great job.
I want to thank you.
[Operator Instructions] I will now go to Barry Lucas with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> I'll just get back to Marcy's final question which in here was any flex on CapEx for '12 as you wind done a lot of the HD investment.
So can that go down from current levels and how far down? Barry thanks for reminding.
I forgot to answer that part of the question.
I think as we try to round out and finish out next year gut through all of our markets.
There's some what I would call cleanup-type of work from what we've been doing this year.
We want to get done too.
I would say right now it's still probably in the $20 million range for next year.
Then I think it drops off significantly after that because it will pretty much been over the hump.
And in 24 months or so we would have gone through and basically redone most of our stations.
So next year especially with a very strong political and a very very strong cash position that political creates for us next year.
It's a good year to make a final push and get it done.
That's why I think it will be about the same number as this year.
Inc.</strong> On the affiliation agreement during the comments Bob when you talk about NBC what has ever happened to the negotiation or the proxy solicitation where they would do the negotiating for you and there'd be some sort of split and everybody would be happy campers? Barry we've been told by the affiliate relations people at NBC that they have not been able to come up with a plan yet.
They're still working on it.
They've asked us for patience I guess is the right word.
We want to go ahead and start negotiating our affiliate agreements and they asked us to give them a little bit more time that they're trying to come up with a plan that they can present to the affiliate board and get their sign off that they would then present to the individual groups of stations.
So far they are not there yet.
I personally think it's just such an extremely difficult thing to take all the complex factors into account.
I think they'll have a hard time coming up with something that would work for the vast majority of stations.
But I'm wishing them luck.
If they come up with something we'll take a hard look at it and make a decision of the -- what we think is best for Gray Television.
But right now there is nothing on the table.
Inc.</strong> Last item I don't mean to throw cold water on this.
But when we look out to 2Q and 3Q of '12.
You've got December Olympics back on your bigger NBCs and an influx of political and relatively easy comps on the auto side hopefully with Toyota and the other Japanese nameplates spending a lot at the middle part of next year.
What's your sense in terms of displacement? I mean you're going to be running out of inventory and I know that's a high-class problem...
That's a problem we always like to worry about okay.
It's like owing too much taxes.
It's usually a good problem to have.
So we I would say that we do a really good job in our markets of talking to our strong local advertisers and a lot of them pretty much sit on the sidelines doing the real heavy September October first week of November tough time periods.
They know the rates are higher then.
They know that they're going to be fighting for the best time.
And we do a good job of communicating to them that "Hey we'll make it up to you.
Don't worry." And a lot of them like I said literally sit on the sidelines.
And so while there's a lot of people want to get in there they know it's going to be an expensive and very crowded and do you want to be stuck in a car commercial inside of 10 political commercials? So I think there's a -- the good news is we get a political and the bad news is it does affect our -- overall some of our good local advertisers.
At this time it appears there are no further questions so I will turn the conference back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
I want to thank everybody today.
We're real happy the way the business is going right now.
We look forward to a strong fourth quarter and end of the year and we look forward to talking to you guys in early part of 2012.
I'm going to wish everybody a great Christmas holiday season and happy new year between now and then.
Thank you everybody.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference and we thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Gray Television's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Hilton Howell Vice Chairman and CEO.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you very much operator and good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter and 2011 Year-to-Date Gray Television Earnings Call.
I will begin with a brief overview of our results followed by Bob Prather our President and Chief Operating Officer who will add his thoughts concerning our performance this year.
And then Jim Ryan our Chief Financial Officer will follow with a brief discussion in financial highlights.
Questions will  be answered at the conclusion of our comments.
All in all we are quite happy with our results for the fourth quarter and full year 2011.
Although our total revenue dropped by 26% to $84.6 million (sic) [$84.7 million] for the quarter and dropped 11% to $307.1 million for the year this was entirely due to 2011 being an off-year political cycle.
This quarter we dropped $28.6 million in political advertising from the record pace we set in last year's fourth quarter where we hit a record of $114.6 million in total revenue due to a company-high political advertising of $57.6 million.
This year significantly we have also set a record of $13.5 million of political advertising revenue for an off year quarter the previous record being $10 million in 2009.
Of our 5 largest advertising categories automotive restaurants medical communications and furniture and appliances for the quarter automotive increased by 17% restaurants decreased by less than 1% medical increased by 18% communications decreased 2%.
And for the full year of 2011 all the  categories increased.
Automotive increased by 6% restaurants increased by 1% medical increased by 12% communications increased by 3% and furniture and appliances increased by 7%.
The solid performance and steady growth of our core television properties resulted in net income of $7.5 million or $0.10 per share for the quarter and net income of $9 million or $0.03 per share for the year.
We also used our free cash flow to retire $20 million of our outstanding preferred and accrued dividends in 2011 continuing our ongoing efforts to improve our balance sheet.
As we look to 2012 we expect robust and likely record growth in earnings for the year.
We have had the Super Bowl on NBC which was a huge ratings success.
This summer we will have the Olympics from London also on NBC which may be one of the best-viewed  Olympics ever.
And we are certain to have a record-shattering presidential election year regardless of who the Republicans eventually nominate.
I would also like to take a brief moment to publicly acknowledge a number of individuals who have been vitally important to the growth and success of Gray Television over the years.
First I'd like to thank Bob Beizer our Vice President of Law and Development for his 16 years of service with our company.
Bob will be retiring at the end of this month and we want to wish him the very best for the future.
Second I want to thank Senator Zell Miller of Georgia for his service on our Board of Directors.
He announced his retirement at our last meeting.
On behalf of the board and of the company I want to publicly thank him for his advice and counsel over the years.
Finally I want to recognize Mr.
Neal Ray who has served as our Chief Outside Legal Counsel and has worked with the company since he began his legal career in the early 1960s.
Thank you Neal for your invaluable help over the years.
I also want to take a moment to welcome Kevin Latek to our company.
He joins us as our new Vice President of Law and Development.
Many of you know Kevin and are aware of his work in the broadcasting industry.
We are proud to have him become a full-time team member with Gray Television and welcome him the 1st of March.
With that I will turn it over to Bob Prather for his further comments.
Bob? Thanks Hilton.
Welcome everybody.
I won't talk too much about last year.
It seems like ancient history now.
We had a good year and I think everybody realizes  that.
The industry had a good year overall and once again our results are right at the top of the industry which we're proud of.
But 2012 is going to be a great year for us.
Obviously political is going to come in probably bigger and better than we think.
And as Hilton mentioned we'll have the Olympics which should be -- has always been big for us.
And we had the NBC with the Super Bowl which NBC is around 42% of our revenue so it's a much bigger factor for us than when FOX has it for example which is our ABC is a much smaller part of our revenue.
Anyway we're really happy to be entering this year.
We're working on the same stuff we keep talking about.
We're trying to get all our stations local HD.
We've got about 8 or 9 to go most of them  in our smallest markets but we hope to finish most of that up this year.
I think it's extremely important.
HD is clearly taking over the TV business and I think most of you who watch TV if you've got an HD you can't watch good old standard definition television anymore.
And I think the country is rapidly feeling the same way.
So I think HD is going to continue to be very important.
One of the things we're working hard on is continuing our news dominance.
We've been #1 with most of our stations a vast majority of our stations for 50 years or more and we want to continue that.
And I think it's important that we embrace the social media going on today's world.
We're actively involved in all our stations with Facebook and Twitter trying to engage our audience in more interactive discussion about the news trying to make the news more and more local local local.
I mean I think we -- everybody says it.
I think we've proved -- we've done it over a long period of time.
Most of the towns we're in -- as you know we're in midsize towns and smaller towns.
The local news is even more important than sometimes in a big city where you live in a certain part of town and you really aren't interested in what's going on all over the rest of  town.
But most of the towns we're in the local news is important to everybody in the town and we want to continue our dominance in that area.
We're also working on a lot of news research.
We did a lot  research in over 20 stations last year.
We plan to do some more this year to continue to learn what audiences are wanting these days.
It's a new world out there.
People 30 and under get their news in different ways than we did in the past and I think we've got to be alert to this.
We continue with a very strong digital strategy  both from the Internet side the mobile side and we want to continue to improve our gain in this area.
We're also looking into more local live programming.
This is something that more stations are looking into.
We're looking hard at it from a lot of areas.
I think it's something that makes sense.
It kind of takes us back.
A lot of us have been watching TV a long time.
Back when we were growing up most shows most stations in towns had live programming.
I think you're going to see a lot of that coming back.
It's something we control 100%.
It's something we -- the content and the advertising's  local and I think it's something that we're looking hard at and seeing if it -- make it work economically in the next 12 to 18 months.
But here again I think it's going to be a great year.
Political I think speaks for itself.
We've I guess for the last 5 or 6 political cycles have had the highest percentage of political revenue of any group in the country.
And that goes back to our dominance in #1 stations and the fact that our newscast in these towns are the ones that people want to watch.
And in most of the towns where we're #1 we'd normally get about 2/3 of the political spending in those towns.
So political will all be huge this year both from the presidential level and even though there's not as many governors' races there's a lot of going to be contested races a lot of issue money out there and also we've got a --  looks like an election coming up from the recall of the Governor up in Wisconsin.
So I'm looking forward to a great year.
And I'll turn it over to Jim and then we'll open it up for questions.
Jim? Thank you Bob and Hilton.
I'm going to keep my comments brief because I think both Hilton and Bob have covered a lot of ground already.
But a quick follow-up on Bob's comment about political.
As we pointed out in the release the political in '11 set a new all-time  off year record of $13.5 million and if you look at our guidance for Q1 the range we have out there for political puts us about $0.5 million ahead of our previous high-water mark of $3.1 million in 2008.
So again we're off to a good start on political.
Focusing on some balance sheet items for a minute.
The total debt was $837 million.
Our senior facility was at $472 million including a $9 million draw on the revolver which was just a short-term liquidity usage.
And as of Monday we will have fully repaid all  that $9 million.
The second lien notes obviously are at $365 million.
The cash flow in the credit facility definition is $97 million for the year.
On a trailing 8 quarter basis it would put it at $116.6 million.
Our credit facility first lien ratio was 4.0x.
So we're well well within the 6.5x covenant.
Programming payments for the quarter were $3.5 million and for the year about $15.9 million.
We're going to -- we expect the savings there in going forward obviously with Oprah having cycled out earlier in '11.
Program amortization for the quarter was $2.8 million and $13.5 million for the year.
Our total cash taxes for the quarter was $36 000.
For the year it was $465 000.
Obviously with the anticipated increase in revenues especially from political we would expect to step up a little bit in cash taxes.
But right now I don't think that number is more than about $1 million in 2012 and that's state tax related.
As you know we have very very large federal NOLs that we'll be using for the foreseeable future.
At this point Bob I'll turn it back to you.
Thanks Jim.
Operator we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Aaron Watts at Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So  couple of questions on the outlook.
I was curious if the Super Bowl is kind of pushing numbers that you provide us around a material amount.
And maybe I know it's hard to do but if you think about things excluding the Super Bowl impact still fairly healthy out there.
And maybe also tied to that any big changes from the category trends we saw in the fourth quarter into the first? As far as the Super Bowl it was $800 000 plus on NBC which is much higher than obviously with our 4 small FOX stations.
But CBS is obviously the biggest hit when we get CBS Super Bowl but it's a nice 1-day payday  for us.
But I think the overall trend is looking good.
National is a little bit -- you never can predict national.
Right now it's a little bit flat nothing to write home about.
Local seems to very strong in virtually most of our markets I think.
And the categories auto is continuing strong national here again is a little bit flat.
But local auto  seems to be strong.
I think there's still a huge pent-up demand for cars out there and we're still way behind the selling [ph] number of cars we were selling back in 2007 and '08.
So there's plenty of upside to go.
A lot of people got old cars that they're ready to trade in and the rates are fantastic right now interest rates on.
And financing is pretty much wide open in the auto industry.
So I think local we definitely feel real good about this year.
And national like I said it's up and down but I think it'll  be pretty strong by the -- over the balance of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No that's helpful.
And then with the NBC agreement recognizing you can't really give us exactly how it's going to impact your P&amp;L but can you just maybe give us some framework around how that is going to be structured? I know there was some talk about NBC negotiating on behalf of its affiliates going forward.
Any details you can give us on that? Aaron NBC our agreements were up in January.
We talked to them in November and December and they asked us for a 3-month extension which we've given them to continue our agreement like it was in the past.
We have yet to hear back from them regarding starting negotiations.
I know that they are still working on trying to come up with a plan for a proxy-type deal for retrans negotiations but up to this point I don't think they have anything they're ready to bring to the affiliates.
And so we're frankly sitting on hold and really don't have any other details that we know of that we could tell you.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last one for me and this is a little bit bigger picture maybe tying to your first answer to my questions.
But I was reading today about how Procter &amp; Gamble may be looking to reduce its marketing spend partially by shifting things away from broad base like traditional television spend to more targeted online spending.
And maybe that's more of a national issue but just curious if you're seeing any of that either on the national or local level probably more so of people looking to shift away from TV and into  targeted marketing online? Hadn't really seen it local although I think everybody out there wants to have a digital strategy.
And I think that's  probably smart business in today's world.
Now here again I think it's incumbent upon us to keep some of that business and capture new business.
I mean I think one of the -- and we've done real well on our digital strategy had a great year in 2011 and look for even a better year this year.
We're getting a lot of advertisers so we hope a lot of that advertising that may shift from TV would go to our site.
So I think we're out there getting a lot of nontraditional TV advertisers to advertise on our websites and our mobile and that kind of thing that -- but I think it's going to be a continuing challenge.
I think national may be a little tougher.
I think national is going to continue to have these big advertisers looking for more targeted ways to -- but the TV at the end of the day is still the only way to get -- for a consumer product company to get a mass appeal out there to virtually every American and I think it's going to stay that way for a long time.
Next we'll go to Bishop Cheen at Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay so you guys do a great job in the press release laying out all the details and the numbers.
Let me go to Jim on the balance sheet.
Preferred I think it's roughly $45  million $46 million $47 million face something like that when you add back the discount.
This is -- you're in a big free cash flow cycle year via your growth in political et cetera.
Any thoughts you can share with us about how you would like to retire that preferred? And if you could remind us again if there's any constraints I don't think there is now for you to use free cash flow to start retiring the preferred? Well Bishop first of all you're right.
It's going to be a very strong free cash flow year for us.
I mean if you think about 2010 we -- after interest service CapEx cash taxes we had $50 million of cash to work with to pay down debt or whatever else in that year.
And certainly from our earlier comments we -- 2012 should be a better year than 2010 so we obviously are in that much better of a position.
The senior credit facility allows us given where our first lien leverage ratio is will allow us $20 million of restricted payments per year.
So we would have that capacity this year.
Now the second lien note indenture does limit us and prohibits us from making restricted payments when we're above 7x on a T12 trailing basis total leverage ratio.
But as we cycle through this year's political we'll come back down underneath that in -- I would certainly expect by the end of third quarter.
So we have the opportunity to further address the preferred later this year and we certainly based on our actions I think in 2011 would be -- if the opportunity presents itself we'll probably think real hard about that opportunity.
That being said given the strength of the political and the characteristics of the overall year there's still going to be a lot of free cash flow generated which as you know if we're not doing anything with the preferred is going to go to reduce the term debt on the senior facility.
LLC Research Division</strong> That is great color.
And then just noticing that the term loan is a -- 2.5 years away not exactly in the zone of near term but would you look given the state of capital markets at recapping both the term and the preferred sort of a barbell approach? Certainly the markets have come back a lot since about this time last year as I think everybody on this call will probably realize better than us.
It's been I think a roller coaster ride over the last year.
We're watching that.
As you said there's basically 2 full years left before we're really starting to approach -- really get close to maturity windows.
I think it's something we're going to keep an eye on about the rates and deal structures and consider being opportunistic.
At the same time balancing the fact that we've got a all things considered a pretty good rate on our senior facility right now and if we do anything there that rate may or may not change.
The second lien notes come into call rights beginning in November although the first call right is probably a little expensive.
But it'll all boil down to Bishop what the markets are giving for rate on new money and whether it ultimately makes sense or not.
But it's something we're definitely going to keep our eyes on as we go forward.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well it's a nice uptown  dilemma.
You have a lot of optionality there.
Next we'll move to Marci Ryvicker at Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> So just a question about national.
Is the somewhat  weakness there have anything to do with the scatter market at the network level? Could you just talk about any correlation between scatter and national spot? Marci I've been watching that for a long time and frankly I don't see a correlation.
There may be one -- and maybe in the bigger markets they might feel it  more but I think in our size markets it's just not.
I've never been able to see a correlation between it.
I'm not saying it's not there.
I just don't see it from where I've been watching and I kind of -- I keep an eye on it year in year out and I just don't.
I'm not sure  there's a correlation.
The -- our national the national is a misnomer.
All national means and I don't think people realize is is just that it's not locally placed advertising.
So even though there may be a "national buy" coming down they may only want to buy 10 of our stations or 15 of our stations or 5 or whatever.
So it's a misnomer.
And national we've found out over the years other than the big markets the top 25 markets really jumps around a lot to do I think with just -- they're out testing markets.
I think they've moved market money around a lot more in some of the medium-size markets we're in just to see what effect they have on consumer spending and just consumer thinking.
And so we've always looked at national.
We like it but here again we'd rather -- we're 70%-plus local now.
We'd rather be 80% frankly.
If we can keep growing our local that's what we want to do in the years ahead.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just have a quick one for Jim.
The guidance for retrans in Q1 I think the $8.4 million is that a good run rate for the rest of the year? Or should we see another bump at some point in time? No that would be a pretty good run rate for the year and that reflects the renegotiation and renewal that we did on about -- it was 40% or 45% of our subscriber base at the end of the year.
There'll be a little bit of fluctuation in that number.
There's a -- of the overall amount.
There's  a relatively small component very small component that is ad buy related and obviously the MVPDs in those few instances where there -- that's a component do have some discretion to spend that during the year as it matches their marketing needs.
But that's not going to move the needle quarter-to-quarter by a whole lot.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Barry Lucas at Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Two items maybe for Bob and then for Jim.
But Bob you touched on digital and social media.
So I was hoping you could just expand a little bit on the threat or opportunity.
And how does a Gray Television take advantage of if you can of Facebook Twitter and some of the other social sites? Yes.
Well what we've done Barry all  our news directors and GMs are very focused on making sure that virtually all  our on-air people have active Facebook pages and Twitter with dialogue with their viewers.
It's amazing when you think about it but most of the -- I mean all the big events if you think about just take 3 examples in the last year.
Bin Laden getting killed was on Twitter before the President  came on TV and announced it.
The tornadoes in Alabama were all over Twitter before anybody got ahold  of it on the national media.
And even the Whitney Houston was out on Twitter before it got to all the news networks.
So I just think it's something we've got to embrace.
Young people especially are -- and not just young.
I mean you're reading where Twitter is growing in all age groups.
But -- and the same way with Facebook.
It's a new source.
And I think we've got to integrate it totally into our news product to make sure that we are out there what the  public wants frankly.
And I think as more and more young people -- I've got a 3-year-old grandson that can operate an iPhone better than I can.
And it just -- what's going on out there in today's world with technology is we've got to embrace it and we've got to wrap our arms around it and make sure  we're seen as being on the cutting edge as far as the viewer's  concerned whether you're 20 years old or 75 years old.
So I think we've got a good plan in place and I think we'll continue to tweak it and improve it.
But it's something I think's  very important to us especially going back to  -- at the end of the day our basic mission and I think every day when we wake up is make sure we put the best possible local newscasts we can on in every town we're in.
And I think as long as we're doing that we're going to be as I've always said in the past technology-proof.
Inc.</strong> Great thanks Bob.
One other item.
If you think about the question that Bishop asked on capital markets and maybe extend that to the M&amp;A market and then think about your portfolio of stations.
Are there opportunities maybe to take advantage of a more active M&amp;A market prune the portfolio maybe find some other duopolies that fit better? How carefully are you examining those opportunities? You know Barry we look all the time.
I mean I think it's incumbent upon us to make sure we know what's going on out there.
My impression is that there were a fair number of deals the Freedom deal last year and then Four Points  that Sinclair did.
Nexstar and [indiscernible] were up for sale.
I haven't heard anything on what's happened there but nothing's happened yet.
And I guess it's been 7 or 8 months or longer.
My impression is the multiples just aren't attractive  enough to sell anything right now.
I'm not saying that -- I think we've got an open mind but I -- I will so I knock on wood every year but year in year out we don't have a single station that's not performing well.
All our stations perform well in their markets.
They're all profitable and we're happy with them.
We got good managers and it would be -- I'm kind of like Warren Buffett.
We're not looking to sell anything although I think if something came along that we -- we'd look at any  offer that we couldn't refuse I guess you'd say.
But I think the M&amp;A market's  still going to be challenged for a while.
I think the private equity guys are on the sideline  kind of looking in.
I think at some point if they think multiples  have dropped low enough they may jump in.
But I think currently right now you just -- I don't think you're going to see many deals get done in the near future because of what's going on out there the attitude.
And I think most of the TV guys us included are looking to pay down debt not increase debt right now.
So I think you're going to see everybody like to get their balance sheet in better shape after we all went through what happened in 2009.
And we'll go next to Matt Swope at Gleacher Securities.
Inc.</strong> Jim can you remind us on the Young deal how long the contract for the consulting is? That'll  end at the end of this year.
It ends 12/31/12.
We're starting our final year.
Inc.</strong> And what happens from there? Do you think that'll  get redone?  Or do you think that goes away? I think it -- I think it's premature to speak to that one way or the other.
But it is over.
There is no automatic extension right or renewal right.
So it's really up to  both sides to decide whether it continues after 12/31 or not.
Inc.</strong> Is there anything in that agreement that maybe following on Barry's question that gives you a look to buy those stations? No.
There's nothing.
To put a little color on that when that agreement was first put into place several years ago actually the Young side was very adamant that there would be nothing like that so that it would not color or even have the appearance of coloring  any possible thing that they would want to do in the future.
So if something comes up in the future on those lines we don't have any special privileges.
We'd have to compete in the market just like anybody else for a deal if and when or if ever a deal came up.
Inc.</strong> No that's helpful.
And then Jim you also mentioned earlier the 7x RP test in your bonds.
And I think that maps to the incurrence test as well.
Is it safe  to say as you think about your capital structure especially post that amendment you got from the credit facility last year that until you're under 7x there's not a lot you could do there? There's not really a lot that I can do with RP until we get below 7x you're correct.
But the point is that we should be back well below that and continuing to move down below that by the end of Q3 and therefore have flexibility  and certainly be in that much better of a position by Q4.
Inc.</strong> But that said it would be hard to see any capital markets activity from you until later in the year? I take that in 2 pieces.
One is if we're using free cash flow to do anything with the preferred you're right that doesn't come until later in the year.
As far as a broader question of capital markets and maybe a potential refinancing or partial refinancing I think it goes back to what the overall markets look like what the rates look like how opportunistic we could be.
And I think there's more flexibility there on timing certainly.
We are allowed refinancing debt under the second liens.
It'd be a case more of what opportunity out there is in the marketplace on any given day and whether that makes sense or not to us.
Inc.</strong> Got it.
That's great.
And Bob maybe one for you.
The -- we're kind of back to the digital spectrum question.
And it feels like maybe we're getting a little closer to a situation where the TV spectrum could come back into the mix.
If there were a situation where through some auction process or some other vehicle that you were going to be paid for your spectrum could you see that happening? Matt that's a good question.
I think it would boil down to a question of dollars.
We've got 40 digital channels on the air.
They're profitable doing real well.
We're doing what the FCC originally intended us to do with the spectrum.
If an auction happened out there and there was a real viable market that was -- we thought was -- that the selling some of the spectrum was more valuable than doing what we're doing with television I'd say we'd have to look at it.
But I don't see that happening anytime soon.
And like I said we like what we're doing with our spectrum right now.
We're doing well with it and we want to continue to grow our digital footprint on that side of the coin.
So I would say that we never say no but I think it would -- we'd have to have a real attractive offer to  want sell any of our spectrum.
And gentlemen at this time we have no further questions.
I'll turn the conference back over to you for any closing remarks.
Thank you very much everybody.
We appreciate it.
We're looking forward to a great year as we said.
You know you can find us anytime.
We answer on the phone so don't hesitate to call if you've got any further questions.
And we'll look forward to talking to you in June or thereabouts about  first quarter and what's going on for 2012.
Thanks everybody.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Again thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Gray Television's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Hilton Howell.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator and good morning everyone.
Welcome to the first quarter 2012 earnings call for Gray Television.
As the operator mentioned I am Hilton Howell Vice Chairman and CEO of the company.
I will make a few brief comments followed by Bob Prather our President and Chief Operating Officer; and then Jim Ryan our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
They will all add their own color this quarter's outstanding results.
Questions will be answered at the conclusions of our comments.
Candidly it was a fantastic quarter.
Total revenues soared by 16% to $80.6 million from $69.7 million last year a $10.9 million increase.
Record-setting political advertising and retransmission consent revenue coupled with strong growth and local advertising and Internet advertising were behind this quarter's record-setting results.
And what we see as a sign of things to come Gray received $5 million in political advertising this quarter a new record for first quarter political ad spends.
To compare in 2011 for the first quarter Gray received $1.4 million in political advertising in 2010 we received $2.8 million and in 2009 we received $3.1 million.
And what we can only see as a sign of an improving economy in our core advertising categories our 5 largest local and national advertising categories all increased.
Automotive increased by 8% restaurants increased also by 8% medical increased by 15% communications increased by 17% and furniture and appliances increased by 5%.
These excellent results led to net income of $2.2 million or $0.04 per share for the quarter compared to a loss of $4.9 million or $0.09 per share last year.
In our last conference call we said that we expected robust and likely record revenue growth and earnings for the year and our results today have we believed confirmed our confidence.
The Super Bowl on NBC produced about $600 000 in increase for Gray compared to last year's Super Bowl broadcast on the FOX network.
Further we believe that the NBC broadcast of the Summer Olympics from London will be a certain ratings winner for the network and for Gray's 10 NBC stations this summer.
And obviously we expect continued record-setting political advertising in this presidential election year.
We're also proud to note that on April 4 Standard &amp; Poor's raised its corporate credit rating on Gray from B- to single B with a stable outlook and this past Monday Moody's followed suit and raised its outlook on Gray to positive.
With regard to our balance sheet this quarter we have continued to reduce our debt and have prepaid approximately $10 million and expect much more substantial debt reduction to the balance of the year.
Clearly we are very pleased with our results this quarter and expect great things for the rest of 2012.
With that I will turn it over to Bob Prather.
Bob? Thanks Hilton.
I appreciate it.
I think Hilton summed it up pretty good.
It was a good quarter.
We're very happy with it.
I think the rest of the year is looking strong right now.
The economy at least for the broadcast industry seems to be coming back pretty strong.
Local has been very very good.
Automotive is leading the charge as you would expect.
I've talked to a lot of our managers and a lot of car dealers around and they're all saying that they're getting a huge amount of activity in showrooms and the key thing is that financing is available interest rates at all-time lows leasing is back in a big way.
And so I think the car dealers are going to continue to have a very very strong year the rest of this year.
There's a lot of pent-up demand from 2009 and '10 when the volume of cars that sold in this country has dropped close to almost 40% during that time period.
So I think there's a lot of people out there sitting with the 5- 6- 7-year-old cars that are looking to get a new car.
So I think this is going to continue.
We're continuing our local HD conversion.
We'll be through with virtually all our stations except for a few of our smaller markets by the end of this year.
I think it's gone extremely well.
I think it's extremely important.
I think all of you that have an HD television.
I'm pretty sure everybody on this line's probably got one.
You can't even watch standard definition anymore once you watch HD.
And that includes local news.
And I think people walk with their feet.
If you don't have local news on in the market somebody else does.
We have been very fortunate to be first in most of our markets with local news and where we weren't first we were right behind whoever went on first.
So I want us to continue this and this is extremely important for us to maintain our news presence and also to maintain our strong #1 ratings and reinforce our markets.
So this is something we want to continue.
As Hilton mentioned political is coming in strong.
Wisconsin has been extremely strong.
Not only you've got a lot of factors up there with this governor recall race and the union situation up there.
So that's a little bit of anomaly but we take the money where we could get it and we've got 3 very strong stations in Wisconsin.
I think we'll continue to benefit from the political spending up there.
I don't think you can extrapolate that to the rest of the stations' markets but I do think it's going to be a great political year all the way around.
And as you all see they are all raising regular amounts of money and I promise you they'll spend it.
That's the good news.
We're trying to do a lot of things in the area of continuing to improve our operating efficiencies looking for more ways.
We've introduced these backpack units called TVEUs [ph].
They're doing fantastic.
Our stations really love them.
They allow photographer/reporter to go out virtually by themselves and send back live over the Internet through cell phone circuits.
The picture quality is very good and we actually retired 11 live trucks there this year but getting more TV units in the hands of our reporters.
So I think this trend is going to continue.
I think this is something that is great for our business.
This unit it seems like every time they come out with a new generation they seem to get better.
So I think you're going to see this as something a way for us to be much more efficient and continue to give the excellent news coverage we do in our markets.
One of the things I want to mention that Hilton mentioned briefly I think it's very important we continue to pay down our debt.
Our goal is to pay down at least $50 million of our debt this year which I think we're well on track to doing.
And next year obviously won't be political but we'll continue to pay down debt.
We'd love to get our balance sheet where we're consistently in the low fives even under 5x our debt to cash flow ratio and I think this is important to all the management and our Board and we will continue marching down that road.
At this point I'll turn it over to Jim Ryan our CFO and then we will take some questions.
Jim? Thanks Bob.
Good morning everybody.
I'll keep my comments brief and focus basically on the balance sheet.
At the end of the quarter we had our senior term loan with its $461.8 million.
Of course we have the second lien notes of $365 million.
So our total debt was $826.8 million.
We had nothing drawn on our revolver and we had $50 million of cash.
Our first lien leverage ratio under our senior credit agreement which is a trailing 8 quarter calculation we were at 3.71 against a 6.5 covenant.
Our free cash flow ratio under the senior agreement again a trailing 8 quarter calculation was at 1.32 against the 1:1 covenant.
Our Series D preferred outstanding including the accumulated dividend with a $40.7 million at the end of the quarter.
Our CapEx for the quarter was approximately $6.8 million.
And as we've said last time on our call we're expecting about $20 million for the year.
Cash taxes for the quarter were a de minimis $5 000 for the year.
We're expecting somewhere between $500 000 and $1 million and that's due in certain states.
Again we have a very very large Federal NOL.
Our program payments for the quarter were $2.8 million and that was essentially the same as the amortization number as well.
With that Bob I'll just turn it back to you.
Thanks Jim.
Operator at this time we'd like to open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll move to our first question.
It comes from Bishop Cheen with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> The update was very useful.
So let me focus on 2 things: one on the operations one on the balance sheet.
On operations can you give us a primer [ph]  we can understand on retrans for the timing differences.
I believe the protocol now is the retrans revenue is all sort of baked in to your broadcast revenue.
But the reverse compensation or retrans expense is just sort of tucked in to your call it operating broadcast operating expense line.
But is there a timing difference this year between your commitments to reverse retrans and your escalators in your retrans agreements with your broadband carriers? And is it making your EBITDA and your expenses choppy this year? Good question Bishop.
The good news is it's definitely the timing difference we've been very fortunate in that --- we just had negotiations on about 40 plus percent of our cable and satellite operators in December and got some nice increases for the next 3 years.
We're only paying a very small amount on our 4 small Fox stations right now.
We're not paying anything in the other big 3 networks.
NBC we've got 9 or 10 I think it's 9 stations that would end this year.
They were originally supposed to start talking until the end of the year.
They asked for a 3-month extension.
We gave it to them.
They've asked for another 3-month extension for June 1 I think it is.
And we have not heard a word from them.
I know they're out in the marketplace talking to other groups right now but we have not heard anything and we assume at some point they will call us and want to start negotiating.
Our ABC stations are up until December of '13 and then our CBS which is by far our biggest group is December 14.
So we're very fortunate to have some timing difference on the income coming in from the retrans and what we'll have to pay out the networks.
And that works for being pretty aggressive I can tell you that.
I know NBC that they're being aggressive.
CBS has made some deals last year that were -- they were pretty firm on what they wanted and they didn't budge virtually any on the amount of -- and they're not calling it reverse comp.
Some of them are calling it just programming payments.
They're not tying it to your retrans revenue.
As a matter of fact CBS wanted it for all households in the market whether you own cable or satellite or over the air.
So I think the homecoming had a little bit different but they all want the same thing.
They want money and they're going to get it.
Let's just hope that we -- I believe we can stay ahead of them on the cable side of things and actually increase from our baseline which we kind of consider our baseline $20 million at the end of '11.
It will be about $35 million this year and it will be escalated over the next couple of years.
So right now it's real good for us.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And the baseline is the -- you're talking expenses or the revenue? No no.
The baseline is what we were taking coming in from the cable guys and basically putting out nothing to the networks.
So I got to consider that's -- our money we want to keep going forward.
We want to add to that.
Ideally giving a better deal for the cable operators and were paying out to the networks.
And I think that's going to be our goal and I think we'll be able to achieve it for good many years ahead of times in the future.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair Enough.
And then to the balance sheet quick I just ask a broad question every time we talk and you give the color.
Why not go ahead and I know it's expensive and recap the whole thing attic to basement.
Bishop we talk about that every single day.
Hilton and I we're just talking about it this morning.
Jim and I are talking by over the weekend.
I guess right now we watch the market every day we're in constant contact with our bankers both the banks we deal with regularly and other banks calling us.
What it boils down to is right now I guess that we want to pay $4 million plus a year for an insurance policy that would get us out 7 years or plus on refinancing.
And I guess that so far we haven't been able to pull the trigger on that.
I'm not saying we won't.
I think we're going to watch it very close.
I can say that clearly daily we want the market and talk to the bankers and if we think it's the right thing to go ahead and pull the trigger we'll do it sooner than later.
Next we'll move to Marci Ryvicker with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have a couple of questions.
Trying to understand what's going on in national.
It was down in Q1 it was up in Q2.
We've heard it from Sinclair that it's actually gaining some steam.
So what's happening in national? Marci that's a great question.
If I could answer that I think I'd retire tomorrow and just become a guru for all the stations.
National is a fickle animal.
It jumps all over the board.
I always kiddingly say there's some 25-year-old computer genius up there in Madison Avenue that is sticking pens in a map and just decides to let's try national here see what happens.
There's seems to be no rhyme or reason to it and like I said in our size market it jumps around a good bid.
I think large markets is more stable.
The good news for us is obviously a lot of lower percentage for us than most of the large markets.
So while we love good national business and we want to keep going I always say my goal is to get more local and a bigger percentage of local every day.
I'll go with our local even faster.
The good news is in a political year you can be very selective on what national you take.
We'll be very careful because we want to make sure we're keeping our rates up and making sure that we got plenty of inventory for the political that is going to continue to come in.
So it's just a very fickle animal.
And it literally from market to market I mean we can have a situation that we've had it where Madison and Wisconsin is having a great national year and Wausau 2 hours away is having a terrible national year and nobody can explain it.
So it's -- like I said my goal would be to be 80% local 20% national in a couple of years.
And when we grown in our local enough to all said any changes at national good or bad.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I just have some clarification on guidance.
Maybe this for Jim.
So for retrans revenue you're guiding $0.4 million less in Q2 than you did in Q1.
So what's the delta there? There was a little bit of choppiness Marci a small percentage of our overall retrans involves airtime buys and that's not necessarily completely linear.
So that's part of it.
And those airtime buys they're embedded into a handful those contracts is maybe 6% of the total number.
So while it's not big it can create some lumpiness quarter-to-quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for expense growth what's driving the expense growth in the second quarter? You have lower revenue growth versus Q1 but higher expense growth than Q1.
It's in part just some comp increases we're seeing and also there's some increase in at least forecasted increase in the broader program expenses going forward in Q2 and the rest of the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question I know you haven't talked to NBC.
We heard that they may be pulling the [indiscernible] altogether.
Have you heard that at all? Yes they are but supposedly that's off the table now.
I think they've given up on it.
One of our managers is on the Affiliate Board and they're leading down in Las Vegas [indiscernible] and he said that's pretty much off the board right now.
That's -- and they are out negotiating with individual stations and groups right now.
Marci another real quick aside on the national.
I think part of it is being driven by the auto.
And as of last Friday for Q2 our auto business was pacing in the mid-teens compared to business on books a year ago.
Not that I'm saying it's not some organized end in the mid-teens but certainly a very strong pace as were basically hitting April 30.
And that showed up in the national numbers as well.
So that's probably part of the national difference between Q1 and Q2.
Next we'll move to Aaron Watts at Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So you've touched on this a little bit but I guess I'm just curious if you set aside kind of the pop you're going to get in auto because of last year's comps.
How do you describe the environment right now across the other categories versus your expectations may be in January or how this year was going to unfold kind of in the first half? Jim I feel real good.
I'll let Jim he can give you a little more color on the detail but I think most of our categories we're very pleased with what's going on.
I agree with Bob's general comment.
Certainly we saw strength in our category Q1 if anything.
It generally feels a little bit better from Q2.
In Q1 the only thing we're seeing is dragging little bit with home improvement and discount department stores each down 1% or 2%.
Now supermarkets were also down but it's a relatively small part of the business and they were down the last quarter or 2.
If you look ahead into Q2 a little bit again we're seeing strength pretty much across the board in the pacing and again the only thing that's looking a little sluggish in Q1 is the department -- discount department stores and home improvement and supermarkets.
So our Q2 feels a little bit relatively better than Q1 but kind of a broad-based among multiple categories.
It's just not auto.
And certainly auto is pacing the highest right now but everything else looks is pretty healthy.
Research Division</strong> That's good to hear.
My second question Bob maybe for you it's kind of big picture.
I'm just curious what you think about it.
So you hearing a lot about migration of especially younger viewers from traditional television watching to watching online on mobile devices.
And I know you don't have CW or MyNetwork in your traditional stations but maybe with some of your digital exposure you have some dots on this.
Just what you're seeing at those stations and what you think the threat is to the broadcast on an operating station business model with that shift going on? And then I guess on the second part of it if you were looking at potential assets to buy does it make you not necessarily want to look at those assets as closely if they affiliations with maybe especially CW or MyNetworkTV? That's a good question.
I think the jury's out.
I think that's the big question for our whole business going forward is what the young viewer let's just 30 and under to make it easier 30 and under viewer what their viewing habits really are we're trying to do a lot of news research in that area.
The researchers are good at what they do and they're probably not near as good at doing stuff like that.
One of the things I've asked them to for example is to pole people that have cell phone only because there's a big percentage especially of younger people that don't have a landline anymore and we're not talking any of those people and we don't know exactly what they're watching.
I would say there was a big article in New York Times just a couple of weeks ago about the very thing a primetime viewing dropping off a lot worse than anybody thought it would.
I think it's the big question mark for us as an industry.
I think that's one reason we've got to be really really on the forefront of being on mobile devices both iPad iPhone Android all this stuff because clearly the younger generation is very comfortable watching television on any of those devices.
One of the other things we're trying to do is we feel we're good at promoting all our digital products but we basically promote them between with our own air products and if you're not watching us on air you're not seeing any of those promotions.
So we're trying to come up of ways to do a better job through Facebook and Twitter and Pandora and even go on to some of these college newspapers in all of this major university pals and trying to get out hey if you want to get our app for iPhone or Android or your iPad where you can click on and immediately find out what's going on local weather news sports whatever it is locally I think a lot of those people would want to have that and it's something they're very familiar with using.
I think we're going to do a better job but I think it's more of that.
You got to be -- you got to have your program unavailable when where and how people want it.
Now I think if you're not doing that you're going to be in serious trouble in the future.
I think it's an incumbent upon us as a company and us as an industry if we want to maintain the kind of presence we got in the world today we basically give people the news and information we're good at however whenever they want it.
Next we'll move to Barry Lucas with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Just a couple of items.
On the retrans I think the comments you made is that you renewed about 40% of the sub base effective 11? Yes.
That's correct.
Inc.</strong> So what would the -- what would 12/31/12 look like or how much comes up this year and next year? We've got very little I think.
Next year we've got -- I think at the end of '13 we've got Comcast which is our biggest single supplier and I think is it Dish or Direct is coming up in '13.
It's one or the other and then [indiscernible]...
So we will get a few other systems plus Comcast plus either Dish or Direct in '13 and then we'll have Dish or Direct whichever one we didn't get in '14.
So and then we'll all of this 40% again in December 14 because we've made all 3-year deals.
So we ought to have a pretty nice increases over the next 3 years.
And one of the things we're emphasizing Barry just so you'll know and I think we did a good job of selling it this year we really pushed on and in fact hey guys we got the #1 station in most of these markets.
We've got a tremendous history of leadership and excellence in news and we're worth a lot more to you than these other guys are.
Here's our ratings here's our history.
I always like the brag.
We've got 16 stations that's been #1 50 straight years or more.
I mean that's a pretty good record and these communities are providing the news and the programming that people want to see.
And we want to continue that tradition.
And ideally make it stronger in years ahead.
But I really think we got make sure that we're getting that message across to these cable operators that our stations are worth more than most of these other stations in the market.
And like I say we did a good job with and we're going to keep doing that.
Inc.</strong> Right.
not to drill down too much into the arcane here Bob but there seems to be a little bit of a disconnect if it was really glad to see furniture and appliances up but home improvement as a category was down.
Any regional variances or anything or other color you can provide that would sort of explain the divergence? I don't have a good answer to that.
Jim do you got any color on that?.
Barry noted the home improvement was only down about 1% and I'm looking for you real quick.
I mean that 1% was $25 000 so call it flat.
So really not all that bad.
We need to go back and look and see how the furniture and appliances had done the last couple of quarters.
That may have been a case that it lagged a little and then catching itself up a little bit.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Just to come back to Aaron's question and the way you articulated the need to move into mobile devices Bob.
Where are we in terms of launching and having commercial products out there for smart phones and tablets? Barry right now we're testing a lot of mobile in 2 markets in Omaha and in Lincoln.
The industry still has not quite got their act together.
There's some stations in this Pearl Group doing some NBC live mobile right now.
But frankly the networks are asking us to sign some agreements to be able to put live programming on a regular commercial basis.
But we're not ready to sign both CBS and NBC.
So I think it's something we're going to be really focusing on over the next few months and trying to figure out a way.
One thing we are doing though we're looking we probably going to start streaming all of our newscast on our website.
Pretty much all the time which is something we're doing in a good many stations now.
But actually going we'd have all our stations streaming all their newscast over which will be available on PC or on mobile devices.
And we're looking at some technologies out there that will allow you to do some things with mobile that we can't do right now.
But the live mobile itself is a great technological advance.
There's no question.
It's just the question surrounding how do we get it on air how do we get a standard everybody can agree on for the devices.
How do we get the manufacturers to put those chips in the devices.
All those things are still in the future and still pretty much up in the air.
Next we'll move to Larry Schnurmacher with Morgan Stanley Smith Barney.
Just a couple of questions.
How does your recent revenue performance compare to peers? If there's a way you can show us that.
And political based on growth in '08 and 2010 what is '12 look like if you can do like a growth rate comparison? Jim you want to take that? And I will say I think regarding relationship our peers have I think we are right at the top of the industry right now.
We're all in -- Jim you want to answer as far as it's going back from '08 on? Well as far as the political for total year given a recap starting in '06 it was $43 million '08 was $48 million '10 we set the record at $58 million.
Certainly we expect a strong '12 and just exactly how big '12 is we'll be able to answer to that question in early November.
But it will be certainly be a very strong year for us no matter what the final number comes out to be.
But there has been significant growth period-over-period whether it's been presidential years or non-presidential years.
[Operator Instructions]  In the meantime we'll move Michael McCaffrey with Shenkman Capital.
Just to confirm did you guys say that you did make prepayments on the I guess it was in the revolver you guys paid down? We paid down -- we had $9 million drawn on the revolver at the end of the year.
That was all paid back and all.
And then we had the standard $1.2 million of required amortization during the quarter.
So net I mean all in we reduced total senior debt $10 million from where we were at the end of last quarter.
Got you.
And as you sit now as you're looking out to the next couple of quarters since you can't do anything to address the preferred given the 7x RP you've got related to the second lien notes? Are you more inclined to use the excess cash flow to chip away at the term loan or kind of hold on to the cash until Q3 when you're likely to be under that threshold and you can potentially pay down the preferred? I think it's probably more likely -- I mean there might be some opportunities to pay down technically pay down in late Q2.
I think it's more likely a Q3 event with that will be coming up and there may be a possibility of being able to do something on the preferred at that point in time as well but certainly by early Q4.
So as we -- just as we did in '10 most of the voluntary prepayments we did that year were really more back weighted.
I'd say September forward is the real heavy political money rolled in.
And we could gauge exactly how much we wanted to prepay once we had the cash in the door rather than trying to kind of guess that a little bit and take it on the comment take it too early in the year.
Okay.
And then just you guys have mentioned before that and times pass when there were big moves in gas prices you saw a noticeable shift in your business.
Can you just comment on during the month of March when gas prices were on the news on a daily basis? Did that impact any cancellations or just the general pace of business? We didn't see it this time and I think what's happened is people are getting a little more immune to  -- when it jumps up to a $4 plus for premium in a lot of places I think people -- it wasn't like when we it jumped to $4 back in '08 and it really spooked people because it never had been that high before.
I think this time around it's probably going to take $5 to spook people this time but I think if it did it seems to be coming back down right now but if it popped back up and was jumping up in the $5-plus range I think we would clearly see some effect on local business especially.
Next we'll move to Todd Morgan with OpCo.
I just want -- I recognize this small number but the consulting revenue being 100 000 or so in the quarter was below or excuse me above the $600 000 so you talked about as a base rate.
The question is I mean obviously that's not a big difference but does that mean you're getting any of the incentive payments or can you -- or is there any way you could kind of clarify the guidance you provided without...
Yes the difference was a small amount of incentive payment that actually -- goes back to '11.
As we talked about on our last call at that of the year we still didn't know exactly what we might be entitled to and so the number that rolled through in the guidance.
The number that you seeing now reflects that little bit of additional incentive that we picked up from '11.
And just for budgeting purposes you said $600 000 a quarter.
Does that just mean that you just aren't calculating any budget any incentive that you may receive or that...
That's correct.
We really don't -- that's right we're just talking about the base fee going forward.
But we do have our eligible turn of potential incentive for the 2012 year.
But right now it's way too early to have any way of accurately estimating it.
So we're just not trying to get to something we don't know yet.
That's fair.
Just then secondly it looks to me like you're going to be comfortably below the 7x leverage test in the bond indenture by the third quarter.
Is the trigger in order to be able to make a restricted payment for the preferred so I'm assuming that's what you'd -- would try and do around that time.
Is it filing the 10-Q financial statements or what is the actual trigger to be able to make that payment? I believe the indenture has language to the effect of when statements are "available." I don't recall off the top of my head that it says specifically having filed.
So I believe there's a little bit of -- for us the gray area exactly when we could pull the trigger.
But as we get close and are comfortable that we have the capacity and comply with the indenture we'll obviously consult with counsel and figure it out and it probably wouldn't surprise anybody if we try to -- if we end up pulling that trigger as soon as we reasonably can.
[Operator Instructions] Next we'll we move to Rich Crawford with Wellington Management.
Just the following on the preferred question.
So can you just update us on what availability you have there? Is there anything in the bank line restricting you? Is it just in the bonds? And I hear what you're saying it's a focus at the third quarter on meeting that.
The senior credit facility allows us $20 million of restricted payment in any calendar year.
So that is the absolute hard stop number we have to work with in 2012 as in the refinancing transaction.
And then as you said the second gating issue is when under the indenture we really have the ability with the leverage test under the indenture to actually pull the trigger on making that redemption -- repurchase I should say.
Thank you.
And at this time we have no further questions.
Okay.
Thank you everybody.
I want to let you know I appreciate everybody's support.
As I tell you every time we answer on phone we will answer any questions you got if you want to follow up and we look forward to talking to you at the end of the second quarter call.
Thanks everybody.
Goodbye.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's program.
You may disconnect at any time and have a great day.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Gray Television's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference.
As a reminder today's presentation is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Hilton Howell Chief Executive Officer and Co-Chairman.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning welcome everybody.
I am Hilton Howell as the operator mentioned.
I'll be making a few brief comments; followed by Bob Prather our President and Chief Operating Officer; and then Jim Ryan our Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President who will both add their own color and comments to this quarter's really outstanding results.
We will then have questions at the conclusion of our comments.
It was quite simply an extraordinary quarter another record.
Revenue for the second quarter was the highest the company has ever reported in its entire history.
For the quarter total revenue increased by 24% to $94.7 million from last year's $76.2 million.
Similarly the company reported record revenue for the first half of 2012 of $175.4 million up 20.2% from $145.9 million last year.
These truly extraordinary increases led us to report net income of $9.8 million for the quarter compared to a profit of $771 000 last year and for the first half of the year we reported net income of $12 million compared to a loss of $4.1 million for the 6 months of 2011.
On a per-share basis this translated into earnings of $0.17 per share for the quarter and $0.21 per share for the 6 months of 2012 compared to earnings of $0.01 and a loss of $0.07 per share respectively in 2011.
Obviously a record pace of increasing political advertising accounted for the lion's share of this growth but we also saw an increase in virtually all of our revenue categories as well.
For the quarter we received $13.1 million of political ad dollars and year-to-date we have received $18.1 million.
Both numbers are all-time records for Gray.
But just as significantly of our 5 largest local and national advertising categories: Automotive restaurants medical communications and furniture and appliances we saw increases in every category save one.
For the quarter automotive increased by 20%; our lone decrease was in restaurants for the quarter which decreased by 5%; medical increased by 8%; and communications increased by 2%.
Further furniture and appliances for the quarter increased by 3%.
Year-to-date we saw all increases.
Automotive increased by 14% restaurants increased by 1% medical increased by 11% communications increased by 9% and furniture and appliances increased by 4%.
We are also pleased that this quarter we added 3 new CBS affiliations to our existing markets in Panama City Florida; Harrisonburg Virginia; and Parkersburg West Virginia.
We anticipate that these new stations will be on the air by September 1 for Panama City and Parkersburg and by October 1 in Harrisonburg.
Going forward we will be operating affiliates as CBS NBC the CW and MyNetwork in Panama City Florida; CBS ABC FOX and MyNetwork in Harrisonburg; and CBS NBC FOX and MyNetwork in Parkersburg West Virginia.
With the excellent group financial results our television properties are delivering we have continued our effort to improve our balance sheet.
As we discussed last quarter we prepaid approximately $10 million of our debt and we announced earlier that this week that we have retired $20 million of our Series D perpetual preferred stock plus accrued dividends.
This repurchase will save our company $2.1 million in dividends on an annual basis.
After this transaction we will have only $22.2 million of preferred and accrued dividends on our balance sheet and we have confidence that we will have that retired in the relatively near future.
I would also like to use this opportunity to thank Nick Matesi and his entire team at KKTV our CBS affiliate in Colorado Springs Colorado for the superb job they have done in reporting on the recent Colorado fires.
Their co-coverage on television the Internet and on social media was outstanding.
And I want to congratulate everyone at that station for an exemplary job.
With that I will bring my comments to a close and turn it over to Bob Prather.
Bob? Thanks very much Hilton.
First of all I want to say that I think our numbers speak for themselves.
We continue to be at the very top of the television industry for the last 12 years and I think we'll continue to stay there because we're doing the right things to make sure we're operating as efficiently as possible and try to take advantage of new automation in the television world to make sure that we're more efficient going forward.
We got 2 priorities at Gray; one of them we've had from day 1 the other one we've had for the last few years.
The first one #1 priority for us right now is to get our balance sheet in better shape.
As Hilton mentioned we paid down debt we paid a good chunk of our preferred.
We want to continue to do this.
We hope to pay over $50 million down on our senior bank debt before the end of the year.
There was $22 million left on the preferred we want to pay that off in early January of next year.
So we are working hard to get our balance sheet in better shape and it's our #1 priority as a company.
Our second priority and this has been our overall #1 priority since the day Mack Robinson and I bought control of Gray and that is to continue our efforts in local news to be the #1 source of news in the markets we're in.
We're very fortunate weve got more #1 news stations than any other group in America.
And we want to continue that.
We want all our #1 stations to get better and we want anybody that's not #1 to strive to be #1.
We're doing this in a lot of ways.
And we are -- increasingly have more competition not only from the local stations in the past but competition from Google competition from YouTube competition from all kind of sources of news that weren't even in the market 5 10 years ago.
We're trying to continue to develop our Internet products and our mobile products.
I think we've done a great job in this area.
We've been profitable from day 1 with our Internet properties.
And we want to continue not only to grow the properties but to continue to be very profitable.
And this is something very important to us here at corporate and to our GM's.
But I want to emphasize again our local news is the only thing we own 100% of.
It's the only thing we've got total control of and it's incumbent upon us to make sure that we are the leader in -- as a news source in all of the markets we're in.
And this also ties you mostly to these towns.
The Colorado Springs coverage is a good example.
We were on the air for 131 straight hours.
We think that maybe a TV record.
And one thing that enabled us to do that was our TVU mobile units we were able to use out in the field in the automation in our building.
We called in people from several other stations to help out but we probably used half the number of people you'd ordinarily use to stay on the air 131 straight hours of local news coverage.
They did a great job.
Our chief photographer's house burned to the ground.
And as we was leaving his house with 20 minutes' notice he was filming what was going on in his neighborhood.
I went to visit the neighborhood afterward and it looked like Tokyo after the firebombing in World War II.
There were 350 homes destroyed in his neighborhood.
And I mean burned in the ground.
It was one of the worst natural catastrophes I think I've ever seen.
But our coverage out there was outstanding and I want to thank Nick Matesi and all his team.
We couldn't have asked for -- and that's what local TV is really all about.
That's what makes your reputation in a market.
That's what ties people to you.
And this is the kind of coverage we want to have everywhere and we pride ourselves on what goes on in our local news markets.
Another thing I want to mention before I turn it over to Jim Ryan -- Bishop Cheen who's usually the guy with the fastest fingers on these calls and he's been with Wells Fargo a long time he's been a long-time personal friend going all the way back to his Kagan days has just announced his retirement.
He's one of the best I've ever known and the industry will miss him -- and I wish him well in his retirement.
But Bishop we will miss you.
Anyway at this point I'll turn it over to Jim Ryan.
And Jim will go over some numbers and then we'll open up for questions.
Thanks Bob.
I'm going to keep my comments brief because I think things are pretty well laid out in the release.
I'll focus most of my comments on kind of the balance sheet.
But a couple of quick things.
Again with the record-setting revenue in any second quarter as well as in any first half of the year our broadcast cash flow and operating cash flow numbers also set new records for a second quarter and for any 6-month period of any first half of any year and we're very pleased to see that.
Naturally they fall out of the record-setting revenues that's been discussed already.
As far as the balance sheet goes our senior first lien leverage ratio at the end of the quarter according to the definitions in the senior credit facility was at 3.52 with a trailing 8-quarter average cash flow of 126.5.
Our net leverage on a trailing 12-month basis leverage net of cash was 6.64.
We had cash on hand at the end of the quarter of $28 million.
As -- after making the $20 million payment on the Series D preferred earlier this week our cash balances are still in the low $20 million range.
Total debt at the end of the quarter was $825.6 million with first lien debt at $460.6 million and the second lien at $365 million.
Again we took -- we paid an aggregate amount of $20 million for the Series D repurchase earlier this week.
After that transaction we had $13.6 million liquidation value of the Series D still outstanding and approximately $8.6 million of accrued and unpaid dividends for a total obligation this week -- as of this week of about $22.2 million.
Our CapEx estimates for the year were increasing to $23 million from the previous estimate of $20 million.
The increase in $3 million is attributable to 2 things: first of all we will be spending approximately $2 million to build out the transmission facilities and other equipment we need to launch the 3 new CBS affiliates that Hilton discussed a few minutes ago; and we're also closing today on a new building for our Colorado Springs property as well and we'll be relocating our facility to the new building early part of next year with the intention of selling the current building after we vacate it.
So that would probably be some time next year.
Cash taxes for the quarter were $220 000.
Still expect cash taxes to be relatively small probably in the $1 million maybe a little bit more range if political is extremely strong in Q4.
Q3 to comment briefly on the Olympics.
Right now it looks like we'll have net revenue attributable for our Olympics in Q3 of about $4.8 million which is significantly higher than any previous Olympics.
It's -- the last Summer Olympics in 2008 we had $3.4 million.
So we've been extremely pleased with the Olympics sales this year.
We think it's in part attributable to the venue in London and only a 6-hour time difference.
But also we've seen a very healthy buy out of the political advertisers for Olympics as well.
And I think our NBC stations did a good job of -- especially where political has been highly active did a good job of holding political back -- or holding some inventory back to be able to charge premium rates to those political advertisers at the last minute.
And certainly that's helping us get to a -- what looks to be a very substantial record-shattering $4.8 million in Olympic sales for this year which we're very pleased with.
Bob at this point I'll turn it back to you for questions.
Thanks Jim.
Operator we're ready to open up for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Aaron Watts with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So I'm just curious if you kind of strip away auto and political can you maybe just give us some thoughts on what you're feeling from your markets with the other categories and just kind of -- we heard payrolls weren't so -- were okay today but unemployment is not coming down and consumer spending is kind of hit or miss.
Just kind of a general sense for the underlying currents in the ad environment.
Aaron I think we're fortunate for 2 things.
One I think most of the markets we're in have not been hit as hard in the recession as some of the -- the only market I would say that was really really extremely hit hard was the housing market.
We had 2 one was Reno and one was Colorado Springs.
And they probably have performed -- they've probably been the toughest 2 markets we've had.
But in general most of our markets outperformed the economy in general.
And I think our focus on being in the college towns and the state capitals have paid off.
And we just haven't seen -- most of our categories are doing -- or as Hilton mentioned restaurants being down a little bit.
And for some reason wireless has just been tough both -- all over the country.
I've talked to other TV guys and they say it; I've talked to newspaper guys they say the same thing.
And nobody's really sure what's going on right now in the wireless world.
And I think that AT&amp;T and Verizon and T-Mobile are all just competitive as ever.
I just think they're all reassessing their strategies and figuring out how to go after more subscribers and it just seems like they're all planning right now and not spending near as much.
But overall most of our markets really just continue to be a lot better than the general economy I think.
So we're not going to look a gift horse in the mouth right now.
And I think like a said we want to take in everything we can take while we can get it.
So I think the rest of the year is going to be real good even without political.
Next year probably will be a challenge but they all are challenges at some point.
So we'll fight that battle when we come it.
But I frankly think if there's a change in administration there's going to be a feeling of optimism.
Here again I think there's always that one when a new President comes in.
But I think there'll be a real feeling of optimism in the country that hadn't been around for a while.
So that can be good news for 2013.
But I'm not politicking.
I'm just stating a fact that you saw it when Obama came in there was a lot of optimism.
And I bet there'll be if there's a change again.
And whether it works or not that's anybody's guess.
But I think that would in the short term be good for the economy so...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Now that's helpful.
And then a quick one for Jim.
Just thinking about your dry powder to go after more preferred and I think you used your $20 million basket.
Is it now really dependent on leverage the rest of the way before you go after more? No we used our $20 million basket for this calendar year and we did it basically as soon as we practically could which was this week.
So under the senior and -- or under the senior credit facility we would have to wait until 2013 to take the next $20 million out.
And as Bob alluded to given the strength of this year and our expectations for the second half of the year right now it's -- that's something we would probably look to do very early next year.
If -- and this comes with a big if -- if we were to go to the credit markets for a larger refinancing some time later this year and I'm not saying we will or we won't I'm just saying if that were to happen then we would have an ability to take out the rest of the preferred even sooner.
But right now we're looking at taking our next $20 million bite as early as we can in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one for me I appreciate you taking these maybe for Hilton or Bob.
Just some thoughts around some of the M&amp;A that's going on in the space maybe about what the multiples have been and Gray has obviously been on the sidelines here maybe what it's going to take to have you guys get involved whether it's getting your leverage down or these weren't the right assets and you're waiting for the right assets maybe some thoughts around that? I think we will continue to monitor the market.
But I think as I mentioned our #1 priority is getting our balance sheet better over and frankly I haven't been really excited about any of the deals that we're asked there in looking at them.
But beyond that I think the multiples are -- you can hear all kind of numbers but it'd probably in the 8.5 range which is I guess in today's world is okay.
But I think we can put our money to a lot better use right now paying down debt and getting rid of this preferred.
I mean the preferred accrual is 17%.
There's no station out there earning 17% growth no matter where you look but -- so I think we're going to be a lot better off concentrating on our balance sheet.
And if we get back in the deal market at some point in the future we'll make sure we do it and keep our balance sheet in good order at the same time.
Bob let me follow-up with that for -- Aaron this is Hilton.
I will say I think it's a very good sign for the industry as a whole that a lot of these players are stepping up and purchasing television assets.
And being here in Atlanta Bob and I have talked about it and Jim and Kevin Latek our Chief Legal Counsel as well.
It's sort of a bullish sign from our standpoint to see Cox stepping back in and purchasing some assets.
And I think that Bob Prather's comments are right on.
We have to continue to increase or improve our balance sheet because our goal here is to get our stock price back up.
And I think that the balance sheet integrity is critical.
But we will look at transactions if they're something that we can do that doesn't end up betting the company or leveraging us up too much with the idea that continuing to improve our balance sheet is the preeminent goal here.
And we'll go next to Bishop Cheen with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Whatever you said about the Colorado I watched that.
You guys set the network I saw your coverage it was dramatic.
You can't throw out enough superlatives about what you guys did there.
Amen.
I agree with you.
We're very proud of our people out there.
LLC Research Division</strong> It was really something.
I hope -- I mean it -- like you said it demonstrated the power of local television.
I sure hope we never have to see that again.
Yes I agree Bishop.
LLC Research Division</strong> Thank you Jim for the color on the recap.
I think you said it all on what you're looking at and what you're dealing with and you'll make those decisions when you make them is what I'm guessing.
The -- your Internet performance that's what Facebook liked and is -- and I'm not talking about the retrench just as you break out the Internet do you expect that kind of pace to sustain as we go ahead? Bishop I think in the next year or so that all at high-teens low-20s pace probably we can -- I would expect to continue for at least another year maybe a little longer.
It might eventually start working down.
But clearly it's a growth area for us.
And if you go back and track our numbers over the last few years there were a couple of years there where we had kind of leveled off and we're stalling out a little bit to be honest.
And we -- last year we made it a big push again and we're continuing that push this year.
We're kind of getting the full year benefit of a lot of the things we've started last year.
I think it's still got to be a big focus of our planning and our sales efforts in '13.
And so therefore I would expect some very strong year-over-year growth there in '13 as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last Robert I know you said you want to focus on the balance sheet but I know you are a student of M&amp;A.
So just the gap that we see in the public private market values do you think that gap is going to change after everybody sees evidence of political? And what does it take to close that gap? One thing Bishop availability of money.
If the money is available the gap will close.
People go out and buy.
And if they can borrow more from the banks then multiples would go up.
It's as simple as that.
I've been watching it for 30 years going on...
LLC Research Division</strong> So M&amp;A would -- the affirmation of values in M&amp;A would motivate public multiples stock values I think is what you're telling me.
Yes I think so.
Right.
Yes.
I think if the markets -- if the finance markets are available and they are willing to loan more and it takes less capital like I said you'll see the multiples go up and you'll see more people trying to jump in.
I think the big issue that I think the private equity guys probably have had their fill of TV for a while and you may not see them around for a while.
But I think most people realize that to fight these networks you probably need to be bigger and stronger especially -- and the retrans battle is going forward and the affiliation battle is going forward.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes sir.
Well the other way is you've got to say can the strategic operators do it on their own without the private equity groups because purely...
Right.
I think they can.
I think...
LLC Research Division</strong> The front half of the last decade it was the pegs driving everything.
No I agree but I think they can going forward.
And our next question comes from Marci Ryvicker with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have a few questions.
The first is have you done reverse comp deals with NBC? No.
LLC Research Division</strong> They were on hold.
Are they still on hold or delayed? We're still in negotiation and we are on a short-term extension one of several short-term extensions.
We expect those negotiations to continue to proceed at pace.
And some time later this year I'm sure we'll ultimately come to what both sides think is a reasonable deal.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
CBS mentioned yesterday on their call that they're having conversations with affiliates who may be willing to do their reverse comp agreements sooner and bring them forward.
Are you in that camp? No.
As a matter of fact we've talked to them and they've not wanted talk to us.
So we're kind of happy to be at December 14 but we have to talk to them soon.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you just talk a bit more about the CBS stations that you're launching? I just want to make sure we understand now you have triopolies of those markets? Yes.
Matter of fact quadopolies in a couple of them.
We will have a primary NBC or ABC and then will have a FOX and we'll have MyNetwork and a CBS.
So we will have in some places quadopoly.
And I think the CBS is going to be great.
I think we can really bring a local flavor to them.
Those markets have not had local CBS affiliates in the past.
And we're going to really get a push on from a proposal stalemate from a promotion standpoint they really let people know in these markets that they've got local CBS coverage.
And I think based on CBS being so strong and prime it's going to really be a boon for us.
LLC Research Division</strong> And do you have any sense as to the revenue and expense contribution we could expect? I think we're hoping to be cash flow positive within the first 12 months as we get -- probably next year not -- I'd say the first 15 months.
We have to go on air as I mentioned September and October and it will be a shake-out period for a while but like I said we think because of CBS's strength those stations are going to catch on pretty quick.
And we think the advertisers local advertisers will jump on the bandwagon pretty quick.
LLC Research Division</strong> And the last thing I just have a comment.
I want to second everyone else's comments today with regards to Bishop because Bishop has been someone I've looked up to and I've talked to everyday almost for the past 10 years I've been doing this.
He's been a great friend and I'm going to miss him.
Yes we definitely will.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from Barry Lucas with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Two areas Bob.
One we keep asking about from quarter-to-quarter and that is mobile and any developments coming up there and expectations for that revenue stream to begin to flow.
Barry I think live mobile is still in the incubation stage.
As I mentioned before I think the technology is there right now.
I just think it's still -- the NBC is still trying to figure out a model that will work and make everybody happy.
As I've mentioned we've got a lot of miles to feed there the networks and the syndicators and everybody that provides something to the station wants a piece of the action over mobile.
So I think it just boils down to economics.
I think it'll work.
I think I'm not sure when it will be consumer-viable economically viable but I'm hoping some time in the next 12 months it will start picking up and maybe in '14 it will -- mobile is growing so fast in general.
More and more people are demanding mobile content from every angle.
All the smartphones are getting smarter and smarter and more technologically updated.
So mobile is here to stay and mobile is going to continue to grow.
And if you look at the average young person today -- when I say young from preteen up to until the 30s I mean they live on these mobile devices.
These are the smartphones or the iPads or similar-type devices and they're not going to change those habits as they get older I don't think.
I think you're going to see more and more of that and I think it's incumbent upon us to put out a product on those devices that people want to watch.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
And next area maybe you could provide a little observation on what you think about Aereo the threat and in particular with relation to as you justifiably pointed out your strength in local news and what kind of defense that really provides? Probably the only threat to a company like us on Aereo is if a lot of people went off the cable we would lose those subscribers as far as getting retrans money.
My impression is that Diller is back in this thing.
But Diller is a big market guy and I would think it would be a long long time before he got past the top 25 markets for example.
I imagine that's pretty expensive to install in a market.
He's starting out in New York and I'm sure he'll jump to Los Angeles Chicago San Francisco the big markets.
It may be quite a while before he gets down to market 59.
And I think there's still some legal battles and there's a fair number of FCC lawyers who think that even if they win the court battles that the FCC will go into Congress and try to get some legislation passed to fight this thing.
Although I'm a big believer.
It's hard to fight technology.
I think if there's a superior technology out there it's hard to keep it underground.
And it's happened a few times in history but it's kind of like the buggy whip manufacturers trying to keep the cars from going up and down the road.
It just -- they might do it for a while but they're not going to do it if there's a superior technology.
So I think it's something we've got to watch but I don't think it's going to have any effect on markets like ours for a good while.
And at this time there are no further questions.
I'll turn the call back to our speakers.
Thank you very much operator.
I thank everybody for being on the call.
We look forward to talking to you next quarter.
I think political is going to be pouring in pretty strong between now and then.
And as I always say we answer our own phones so don't hesitate to call any time.
Thank you everybody.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Gray Television Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Hilton Howell please go ahead.
Thank you operator and good afternoon everyone.
Welcome to the third quarter and 9 months 2012 review of Gray Television's financial performance.
Happy Halloween.
And for all of you impacted by Hurricane Sandy our thoughts and prayers are with you your family and friends.
And we want to thank all of you for the effort you took to join us on this call.
As usual I will begin with a brief overview of our results followed by Bob Prather our Chief Operating Officer who will add his thoughts concerning our performance; and then Jim Ryan our Chief Financial Officer will follow with more detailed financial data and questions will be answered at the conclusion of our group comments.
We are very pleased to be reporting another terrific quarter today.
In fact we didn't just break records for the third quarter we delivered record results that were better than any other quarter in Gray Television's operating history.
Record revenue for the third quarter 2012 was $102.9 million against a previous record not against a prior succeeding quarter or preceding quarter but a previous record quarter of $85.3 million a 21% increase.
For the 9 months record revenue was $278.2 million against a previous record of $232.4 million a 20% increase.
With regard to broadcasting cash flow less corporate expenses for the third quarter 2012 broadcasting cash flow less corporate was $46.8 million against a previous record of $31.9 million a 47% increase.
For the 9 months broadcasting cash flow less corporate expenses was $111.5 million versus our previous record of $85.2 million a 31% increase.
Furthermore record third quarter broadcasting cash flow was $50.7 million against a previous record of $35.2 million a 44% increase.
And for the 9 months our broadcasting cash flow increased by 29% to $122.1 million compared to our previous record of $94.8 million.
These terrific results led to net income for the quarter of $14.7 million against $27 000 last year and net income of $27 million for the year to date against a loss of $4 million.
On a per share basis for the quarter we reported $0.26 per share and for the year $0.47 per share respectively.
Obviously political advertising was a huge contributor accounting for $24.5 million for the third quarter and $42.6 million for the 9 months.
These records were set against the backdrop of the complete refinancing and recasting of our balance sheet which was initiated in the third quarter and will be finalized on November 13 of this year.
Many of you on this call or your firms participated in this refinancing and we thank you for your support and confidence in our company.
At closing we anticipate long-term debt at face value of $855 million comprised of $300 million of 2020 notes at 7.5% and $555 million of a new senior credit facility with a weighted average interest rate of 5.7%.
Significantly all of the company's preferred stock was retired during this transaction.
At this point I want to personally take an opportunity to thank Jim Ryan our Chief Financial Officer and Jake Howard our Chief Accounting Officer and our entire financial team in Albany Georgia for the extraordinary job they did in a very short period of time.
Every single shareholder in Gray Television owes them a sincere thank you for a job well done.
I also want to thank our underwriters at Bank of America Merrill Lynch and at Wells Fargo.
All of who did a fantastic job in this transaction.
With that I will bring my comments to a close and turn it over to Bob.
If you're still out there we were very fortunate to have a lot #1 stations which traditionally on political years dipped around 2/3 of political TV dollars spent in the market and our managers did a great job of managing the inventory and making sure we have the time available to sell to the politicians and this has been an incredible year as they predicted way back that if the politician raised record amounts they spend record amounts.
We're clearly on track for an all-time record political year and we were once again I'm sure have the highest percentage of political dollars than any other TV group out there that reported publicly.
Last cycle were considerably ahead of any other group but I think we will be again.
And here again that's a tribute to the markets we're in and to the strength of the stations in these markets.
The other thing Hilton mentioned our refinancing I think is extremely important for the company.
I want to reiterate my pledge again and that to all the stakeholders that we will continue to pay down our debt that's our #1 priority in this company and this year's extra cash flow will all go to pay -- prepay to get the debt down some more.
We're very proud of this and we will continue to get our balance sheet in better shape.
We continue to get more efficient in our company.
We're doing more automation and more and more digital.
This is very important for the future of the company and we are constantly working on ways to improve our efficiency and improve our newsgathering without improving our -- without increasing our expense.
As I mentioned we're very proud of the fact that our overall expenses were lower than they were in 2007 and even though we had record revenues and we want to continue this trend and we want to continue to have the highest profit margins in the industry.
So we got a lot of work to do.
2013 is a new year a new challenge.
Obviously there will be a lot less political.
We don't know what the economic parameters can be.
I think we're all kind of way to see what happens in the election what the attitude of the country will be.
And I think overall our managers are optimistic because our core business has been so good this year led by automotive and that continues to be the #1 driver for the television business.
And I think there's still plenty of pent-up demand for all those in the American economy.
And I think the financing is available I think the banks and all the financial institution have realized car loans are really resilient.
They've had a very low default rate.
And I think you'll see continued lending for cars.
And I think anytime the money is available people are -- like I said there's a 3 or 4-year pent-up demand to catch up for those 3 years they have been way under in currency of the United States.
I think it's going to continue to be good for us.
We're looking forward to 2013.
2014 like I said can be hard to beat but 2013 I think will mostly continue growth in core business with -- policy is very important.
At this point I'll turn it over to Jim Ryan for some more financial details.
Jim? Thanks Bob.
Good afternoon everybody.
I'll keep my comments rather brief.
I think most of the information's been well laid out in the release as well as the 10-Q has also been filed today as well and is available.
Turning a little bit for the guidance for fourth quarter.
Obviously again we're looking for very strong political results again at record levels driving us to a very successful year.
Local and national is feeling the displacement effect of the political especially in October but actually once we get past the political window the core nonpolitical business seems to be doing well.
If you look into pacing for December for instance core business is actually up mid-single digits which appears healthy at this point.
And local is actually even up mid-single digits on a pace basis November postal -- the first week of November after the election.
Auto for November and December appears to be pacing very strong at this point so not only with the political but we think basic core business will end the year well.
Obviously down a little bit for the entire quarter but we've seen that before when we had very large political in Q4.
Hilton already commented on the refinancing as well as Bob.
Again we will complete the redemption of our currently outstanding 10.5% notes on November is expected to be completed on November 13 which is the expiration of our call period.
At the end we will again have $555 million of the term loan outstanding and $300 million of our 7.5% notes due 2020 with a weighted average cost of capital of 5.7% we're very pleased with.
The senior credit facility comes with a standard set of covenants.
There is one debt maintenance covenant the ratio is calculated on a trailing 8 quarter basis and it's set at 7.75 initially.
We are currently looking to be on a total average basis at about 6.30 at 9/30 and probably a little lower than that by 12/31 so there's ample cushion under the senior facility.
Everything else in the senior facility is just again fairly standard maintenance package for that type of agreement.
The bonds have a standard 7x incurrence test so both instruments put us in very good shape from a covenant and flexibility standpoint going forward.
And as Bob said near-term focus will be continuing to use free cash flow to pay down balances and de-lever the company.
A couple of quick side points on balance sheet-type issues.
CapEx for the quarter was $6.1 million tracking at $17.7 million for the year -- $17.7 million year-to-date still coming in at about $23 million for the year net of the $700 000 of insurance proceeds that we talked about last quarter.
Program expenses in the quarter $2.8 million $8.4 million year-to-date and we're expecting for about a mid-'12 number for program costs.
We also extended our NBC affiliation again on a short-term basis as our negotiations proceed at pace.
And we expect that by the next time we have a call we'll be -- we'll have wrapped up our renewal negotiations with NBC.
With that Bob I'll turn it back to you.
Thanks Jim.
Operator at this point we'll open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll move first to the site of Aaron Watts.
Research Division</strong> I know it must be nice to be able to focus exclusively on the business now rather than the balance sheet.
But one question for you Bob just looking out towards the end of December and into next year.
We're hearing about primetime viewership pressure at the network level and not exactly robust scatter market potential fiscal cliff giving some advertisers pause on setting ad budgets things of that nature.
But it still sounds like you're not feeling too much negative impact from any of that.
Can you maybe just talk about why that might be? Is it local auto that's driving that? Just curious what gives you some comfort looking into next year? Well Aaron I think the big thing is we're basically 72% local 28% national to begin with and a big chunk of that is auto.
And as I told you I think because of being all the university town and state capitals I think most of our economies are better than -- I think they're better they did go down as far in the recession and they picked up better in coming out.
We still get term account in Reno and semi term account at Colorado Springs but Reno has had a great political year that will sooth a lot of those in the short run.
But in Colorado Springs also.
But I think just -- as I mentioned before I think everybody's kind of waiting to see what's going to happen in the election.
I think a lot of attitudes will be decided one way or another once we know the results next week but I just feel good we're just starting the budget process.
We always like to wait late so we can get it better out there.
But mostly I feel pretty good about core business next year.
So unless something in the fiscal cliff could change all of that but I've got to think that the guys in Congress and whoever's on the White House got better sense to let that happen.
But if it happens I guess we'll all recalibrate our numbers.
But right now we feel pretty good about going into 2013.
Research Division</strong> That's good to hear.
And then just one follow-up on sort of the categories.
With telecom or communications I saw it was down again for you in the quarter.
Any turnaround yet on that in November December.
Is that category still kind of dragging along? It's still dragging and I'm not sure what's going on there.
It's -- I think when the T-Mobile deal got turned down AT&amp;T and they kind of started licking their wounds decide what they want to do and I just -- you kind of got Sprint up in the air right now with the new ownership potentially coming in from Japan.
I just think there's a lot of uncertainty.
Verizon seems to most stable one out there.
They continue to grow.
And the only thing essential to me about telecom is that the huge explosion of the smartphones and the app ads and all that I think these guys almost automatically think well they're going to get the business no matter what because you've got to have -- especially for the app ads you've got to make a phone connection or you've got to have the data connection.
So maybe don't think they need to advertise as much.
I don't know what the dynamic is going on right now.
I've told a lot of people about it nobody seems to have the magic bullet.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And last one for me curious if you can put some brackets around this one.
So it's on retrans.
And obviously I think what started off as being a great 100% or close to 100% margin business or source of income for you is maybe little lower today.
And then maybe just to comment on where you see margins on retrans going in the next 3 or 4 years based on some of the network agreements you signed and what we can kind of expect or model in for that revenue stream? Aaron right now the only agreement we've set is one that for small FOX markets which really is not indicative.
We're negotiating as Jim mentioned with NBC right now.
And then we got next year down next year ABC.
And then into '14 we got CBS.
So we still got some time.
You hear all kind of numbers out there.
I think the network's goal is to get the 50% station retrans.
We feel very strongly that they don't deserve that number and we think we've got good evidence that we bring viewers to them and not vice versa.
And so we're still going to negotiate hard on it.
I mean we've got a good relationship with all the networks.
We want to keep a good relationship.
They're valuable to us and we're valuable to them.
And at the end of the day 50% of our revenue and over 50% of our profits come of our local dealers which is at the end of the day our most important asset.
So I think their goal is to get 50% whether they all get there this cycle I'm not sure.
I think it's something going that's definitely where their goals are.
And it might take another 3 or 5 years but I think ultimately that'll be what they're going forward for sure and will be pressed pretty hard to get to it.
Research Division</strong> But ultimately you think you stay ahead of it with...
We certainly hope so.
Yes we certainly hope so yes.
We'll move next to the site of David Herbert [ph].
So I just wanted to ask have you guys given a cash position after the -- all this refinancing activity? Jim you've got that number don't you? Jim? We haven't given out a specific number.
It's still somewhat of a moving target.
We ended the quarter at a very strong cash position.
We are still in a very strong cash position even after having used some cash in the first 2 stages of the refinancing transaction.
So I think at the end of the year the way I look at it is a normal cash position for us would probably be $10 million of cash is a pretty reasonable liquid number for us especially if the revolver's completely undrawn which should be and I would expect it not to be drawn.
So I think if we're roughly at $45 million of cash now we've got room to definitely pay down some between now and December 31 but exactly how much remains to be seen.
One in political and two just how cash from core business comes up over the next 6 8 weeks or so.
Okay.
So to the extent you guys generate free cash flow in Q4 and 2013 I mean is the idea just to simply prepay the term loan? Yes.
Yes.
And I should say that with -- on November 13 when we settle the 10.5%.
I do expect to use a reasonably large amount of cash on hand to close that transaction as well.
So if we have $45 million $46 million at the end of the quarter a reasonable piece of that will be used in addition than drawing the $135 million that remains on the term loan to call out the $143 million of 10.5% plus the related fees and expenses.
Okay that makes sense.
And then on Internet you guys have seen really impressive growth 22% I believe for Q3.
Expecting double-digit growth for Q4.
I just wanted to get a sense for how you look at that business going forward.
Do you feel like this is a sustainable growth rate and where are you seeing the most growth? Is it banner ads or I guess maybe if you could me through some of the drivers there? We definitely see as a growth area for us for a number of years into the future.
Now whether we'll be able to be growing at a mid-20s rate next year I think that's a little too early to tell.
But I would certainly expect a very very strong growth rate well into the teens or maybe 20.
Obviously if we can match that another year at 25% growth we'd be delighted.
A lot of the growth we're seeing over the last year or 2 has really been in what I would characterize more as verticals.
We've talked about before a Moms site Moms issue family issue vertical within our website that we've branded as Moms Everyday and we've seen very very good growth in across all of our markets.
And that was a homegrown idea that we deployed over the last 2 years or so.
So that certainly provided us a growth opportunity.
Also we've been seeing growth in medical verticals as well as home improvement and some other type of verticals.
But also the general advertising certainly is being pushed and we're trying to also push our way into a more of a mobile presence as well.
And then in looking at the categories you went through telecom.
Do you feel like any of the categories are seeing any secular pressure whether it's restaurants maybe spending more on other local media? Is that a trend you're seeing at all with any categories? No no we haven't.
Okay.
All right.
And the last one for me is just a housekeeping question.
Can you provide cash taxes for the quarter? Oh yes.
Cash taxes were $251 000 so it brings the 9-month number to $476 000.
And we'll be well under $1 million for the entire year.
We'll move next to the side of Larry Schnurmacher [ph].
I guess we should all hope for I don't know more elections more frequently? Yes yes Larry.
We always -- early in the year.
And like I said we always encourage red seagull maniacs to run for office.
Okay craziness as it is.
Anyway I'm just with all the refinancings and so on what do you expect the run rate on interest expense to be this year? At post refinancing with the new structure out of the box annual interest cost would be about $49 million.
And that compared to? That compares to a run rate prior to doing the refi of about $58 million $59 million.
We'll move next to the site of Matt Swope.
Inc.</strong> On the liquid capital structure kind of under control at this point Bob do you think M&amp;A could be back on the table or is it too early still? I think it's too early.
And like I said we've committed to lower the shareholders' -- all our stakeholders to -- #1 priority continue to pay down debt.
And generally I talk about a lot and I think it's going to be a help to all of us committed to making sure we continue to get our balance sheet in better shape and so the fact -- we have a lot of extra cash for this year it allows to pay down more debt than we thought.
Then hopefully we can continue to do that.
We've been -- we're trying to be very careful with our capital expenditures and do things that help us technologically but at the same time we want to continue to #1 priority use cash free cash flow to pay down debt.
Inc.</strong> Yes that makes a lot of sense.
And do you guys have to that end Jim or Bob a target for where you'd like that 8.25 leverage number to be before you felt comfortable doing stuff like that? Sure.
I think if we look at acquisitions and we probably -- we've been very careful with our acquisitions over the years.
We'd like to buy strong stations either #1 or strong #2 in good growing markets University towns state capital or so.
Our universe is limited to what really we want to go after.
I think we may be doing some M&amp;As and things like that that makes sense where we can do some duopolies relatively inexpensively.
I know we can put the 2 together and see some quick accretive cash flow.
But I would say I would like to be in the 4s mid-to-high 4s before we even try to look at anything as far as acquisition.
One of the things you got to be careful about things doing merger and acquisitions virtually all my business career is you got to be careful with small deals because sometimes they could cause you a lot of trouble a lot of pain and they barely move the needle.
I mean we own a -- ideally we could sign the right property that we could buy at the right price somewhere down the road it would be accretive it would be great but I don't see that happening in the near future.
So I think paying down the debt is going to be continuously our #1 priority.
Inc.</strong> And Bob on a different front the FCC has started the NPRM on the broadcast spectrum.
Can you comment on how you guys look at that? And is that an asset we should be starting to value in some way other than you using it for TV? Well what we use now is very profitable.
We've got over about 40 I think we have 43 digital channels on air now.
We did -- by the way I did mention our free Digital CBS that we mentioned last quarter they're up and running and on the air.
We think those are going to be real good growth as far as the next few years.
And we use all that.
We're the poster child for using the spectrum.
I think this spectrum is still a good ways off.
One way if you get a new administration all that stuff could change.
The FCC has a hard time.
They're not like the Congress these days.
They're pretty much gridlocked they can't seem to make a decision.
Spectrum is just too far in the future for me to think much about frankly.
Inc.</strong> So you can't see a scenario where you'd be selling some of your stuff into an auction? I never say never but I really can't see that no.
[Operator Instructions] We'll move next to the site of Lucas Barry.
Inc.</strong> A couple of small areas Bob maybe if -- just kind of thinking about the guidance just wondering what kind of disparity or variance you see as you look into the markets that were -- that are hot politically so the Nevadas Wisconsins of the world versus the non-battleground states.
I'm thinking your bigger markets Tennessee Kentucky or stuff like that? Like I said core growth has been pretty strong across the board.
Obviously some of it gets squeezed out in these real strong political areas but we're seeing like I said pretty much across the board and told the managers about what is being processed they all feel right now pretty optimistic about core growth for next year.
And they're -- I should say they seem to always be optimistic most back in '09 and '10 they weren't as optimistic but right now I think they're pretty optimistic and I think -- I don't know of any -- being specific when I was in Reno because Reno has had such a strong political year and that economy has been so tough that might be one that falls back pretty quick.
But other than that I think most of our market has been pretty steady.
Inc.</strong> Great okay.
Just somewhat separate topic Bob you touched on spectrum use and the Internet but we keep waiting to hear something more positive or more formal formative about the mobile opportunities.
So maybe touch base a little bit about the mobile opportunities in your markets when they evolve and when they actually hit the income statement? Are you talking around live mobile or just mobile? Inc.</strong> Yes live mobile.
Live mobile.
I think they're still a ways away we're still testing for about 3 markets now technologically is great.
I'm still not sure anybody's got the following for how to make it work from an economic standpoint.
We're on this OMBC board and we follow it but I'm not overly confident it is going to happen soon where we can actually show real dollars coming in in 2013 I won't go any far out than that but I still -- I think it's a ways away.
I hate to say it because I have big hopes for it a few years ago and it's just -- it seems it bogged down.
The usual suspects.
Who's going to get paid when and how the networks get paid how the syndicators get paid how the other piece and anybody has got their hands out wanting to get a piece of the pie and it's -- nobody is coming up with following that seems to work here I don't think.
And we'll move next to the side of Brandon Davis [ph].
You mentioned getting down to high 4s leverage before looking at M&amp;A.
If you get down to that level and don't see any opportunities would the next bucket the returning capital to shareholders certainly been a lot of announcements about...
I think we'll look at all our alternative at that point.
I mean I think we're going to continue to have strong free cash flow.
And we've been I think good stewards in the past.
If it makes sense to do something for the shareholders I think we'd look at that.
I wouldn't want to feel very comfortable.
One of the things that I learned from the recession in '09 and '10 is that you can never have too much equity and you can never have -- you can always just pay your debt down it's not a bad idea most of the time.
So I don't think we can look at all angles but right now our priority will continue to be paying down debt.
There are no further questions in queue at this time.
Okay thank you operator.
Operator we'll -- I want to thank everybody for being on the call today.
If you all I'm sure recognize we're very proud of the record year we've had so far.
I think it will continue on in the fourth quarter.
Look forward to the election next week to see what happens I think we're all waiting with bated breath to see what happens there one way or another but it's been a great year both election-wise political-wise and just core business and we look forward to going into 2013 with an optimistic outlook on our business.
So thanks everybody for your support.
We always say you can call us anytime.
We answer our own phones.
So thank you again.
Talk to you again after the 1st of the year.
Thank you operator.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time and enjoy the rest of your day.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Gray Television's Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call to Hilton Howell.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you very much operator.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the Fourth Quarter and 2012 year-to-date Gray Television earnings call.
I will begin with a brief overview of our results followed by Bob Prather our President and Chief Operating Officer who will offer his comments on our results; and then Jim Ryan our Chief Financial Officer will follow with additional thoughts on our financial results.
Questions will as always be answered at the conclusion of our comments.
As you no doubt saw from this morning's press release for both the quarter and year-to-date 2012 Gray reported record total revenue record broadcast cash flow and record political revenue.
Total revenue for the quarter increased by 50% to $126.6 million from $84.6 million a year ago an increase of $41.9 million.
For the year total revenue increased by 32% to $404.8 million from $307.1 million in 2011 an increase of $97.7 million.
Broadcast cash flow less corporate expenses for the quarter was a record $64.5 million against our previous record of $58.2 million set in the first quarter of 2010.
For the year broadcast cash flow less corporate expenses was $176.1 million against a previous record of $135.7 million also set in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Obviously political revenue drove this and set records as well.
For the fourth quarter 2012 political revenue was $43.4 million against the previous record of $33.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Year-to-date our political revenue was $86 million against 2010's previous record of $57.6 million.
Of our 5 largest nonpolitical advertising categories for the quarter automotive increased by 10% restaurants decreased by 5% medical decreased by 7% communications decreased by 7% and furniture and appliances increased by 10%.
For the full year automotive increased by 16% restaurants decreased by 4% medical increased by 7% communications increased by 2% and furniture and appliances increased by 8%.
These record results were coupled with a complete [indiscernible] an improvement in our balance sheet set in the fourth quarter.
We repurchased all of our remaining Series D preferred stock sold $300 million in 7.5% senior notes due in 2020 and tendered for all of our outstanding $365 million 10.5% senior secured lien notes due in 2015.
And we repaid all amounts due under our existing senior credit facility and extended -- and entered into a new facility.
Our weighted average interest rate on our new debt stands at 5.7% which represents an annual interest carry cost of roughly $50 million.
With these new facilities in place we expect to be able to significantly delever our balance sheet in the next several years.
In sum we candidly couldn't have been any more happy with the results that we've had in 2012 and look forward to 2013 with a great deal of optimism.
I would also like to take this moment to recognize Ray Deaver who retired from our board at the end of 2012.
He was an important and integral part of our company and its governance and he will be sorely missed.
Thank you Ray for your service.
Bob with that I'll turn it over to you.
Thanks Hilton.
Welcome everybody.
I think Hilton summed it up pretty good.
We had an all-time record year which we're really proud of.
It was obviously a very good year for the TV industry in general.
'13 is another relative run in but it's not going to be as robust a year for a lot of reasons.
Obviously the political factor's a major factor that's not there.
And also we had NBC we had a record Olympics last year.
So we got some pretty tough comps.
But our stations are all doing good.
Every station we have is profitable.
We're proud of the fact that we still have more #1 stations than any group in the country.
We want to keep it that way and all our stations that aren't #1 that are #2 their mantra everyday is just try to get to #1.
Sometimes that -- is not possible because the #1 station is also very well run and do a good job in the community but we're certainly trying every day and it's a never-say-never-type attitude.
We got our NBC deal done with our NBC affiliates for last year.
It's a 4-year deal ending in 2015.
We're overall happy with it.
I think we're -- all the groups are learning to live with these networks better.
We've become a very important customer to all of them now which I think makes them -- makes us more important to them and I think that will depend on the future.
We've got our ABC stations coming up at the end of this year and then CBS coming up at the end of '14.
Our 3 CBS digital stations we put on the air are all gone up and running doing very well.
We've got a couple of more digital properties in motion right now.
We hope to be able to announce soon that we'll add some more major networks to us.
And I think it's been a great strategy for us.
Our -- we've got 42 digital stations on the air right now.
They're profitable they're growing.
I think they give us a lot of local presence that we can use in the future and we want to continue this thing.
The other thing we're working on very hard is continuing our news dominance and adding to it.
Just to give an example we recently got outbid in a market for Dr.
Phil.
The competitor station paid more than 3x what we were paying for it.
We didn't want to go up that high so we turned around and just read in an hour of news instead of having Dr.
Phil there.
It will be an hour we control.
We think we can make money with it.
We're sure we can and will add to our news dominance in that market.
So those are the kind of things that -- our news is what we totally control.
We own 100% of it.
It's local which everybody in the world wants to be today is local.
We've got those markets sewed up if we continue to do the right job and we plan to.
So we're doing a lot of news research in markets just to make sure we know what the audience is saying and thinking not only about our product but about our talent.
And we're constantly trying to tweak our newscast to make sure they're better.
And it's something -- it's a daily process for everybody in the company.
Our digital product continues to grow.
We're very proud of that.
I've mentioned in the past the mobile product of -- mainly due to the iPad is just exploding.
We average in about 150 million page views a month and I think a year ago it was about 31% for mobile devices.
It's over 60% now for mobile devices.
So this is an area that we're focusing on.
I think everybody in the business world has got to focus on mobile because the mobile platform seems to be where everything's going.
Google is paying attention to it Amazon is paying attention to it.
All the big guys are -- wanting to be more mobile everyday or be mobile friendly let's put it that way.
So we're going to continue to work on it real hard.
We -- this year we're going to spend a lot of time.
We're going to keep our expenses flat from last year.
We're going to spend a lot of time working on continuing our automation and our efficiency in our news operations trying to get much more efficient on how we gather news.
It's a goal in all our stations.
We continue to improve on this every day and I think it'll continue to be a #1 priority for us in the year ahead.
I'm looking forward to an overall good year.
I think it'll be better than people think it'll be depending on the macroeconomy which we don't have much control over obviously.
But I think in the markets we're in we're in good markets so we're in very stable markets.
And I think we've got a good chance to have another real good year this year.
Jim's going to mention one of the things we're concentrating on is paying down some more debt this year which we plan to do.
This is our #1 priority overall for the company is continue to improve our balance sheet.
And we will definitely be doing that this year and next year.
At this point I'll turn it over to Jim Ryan.
He could tell you a little more in detail about the numbers then we'll open it up for questions.
Jim? Thank you Bob.
Good morning everyone.
I think Hilton and Bob have talked a lot already about the operating results.
I'll spend a couple of minutes talking about the balance sheet a little bit.
At the end of 2012 we had $835 million of debt outstanding $535 million was in the senior facility and then the -- which price is at L+475 with a 100 LIBOR floor.
And then $300 million of the 7.5 notes we were able to pay down voluntarily $20 million from free cash flow in December of 2012 to bring the senior balance down to the 5.35% with what we closed the year.
Cash on the balance sheet at the end of the year was $11.1 million.
As both Bob and Hilton had said all preferred stock had been redeemed earlier in the year.
Under our senior credit facility our operating cash flow as defined in the facility was $174.1 million that's on a trailing-8-quarter-average basis.
So that brought our leverage covenant on the senior facility our total leverage covenant to 6.08 at the end of the year.
On a T12 basis that would equate to a 4.73 leverage -- total leverage ratio.
And if you just looked at the senior debt it would be at under trailing-8-quarter the senior leverage ratio was 3.86 although there is no covenant on that.
The covenant in the senior facility is just on total leverage.
Our total balance sheet is $1.2 billion.
We had about 57.5 million shares outstanding.
CapEx for the year net of insurance proceeds was $23.7 million and that offset number reflected the buildout in the latter third of the year of the 3 new CBS digital stations that Bob referred to.
Total cash taxes for the year was $836 000.
We have approximately $250 million of NOLs left to use.
I don't foresee us being a significant taxpayer for quite a few more years yet.
Next year's cash taxes would be in the same range or lower than the $836 000 in 2012.
Programming payments for the year were $11.8 million and our amortization was -- program amortization was $11.1 million.
In looking at 2012 our free cash flow which I would define as our operating cash flow less cash interest cash taxes and our CapEx was at $94 million -- I actually round it to $95 million.
If you think of that on a cash flow per share basis 2012 generated free cash flow of $1.65 a share.
Thinking ahead over the next couple of years I think that metric speaks very well for the company certainly based on the full year guidance we have in today's earnings release for 2013.
You can see that we expect '13 to be significantly better from a cash flow perspective than 2011.
With our cash interest at only $48 million in 2013 we certainly would be generating a significant amount of free cash flow in the off-political year.
I'd say rough math it probably puts you at around $40 million which would probably will be primarily used for debt reduction.
And certainly we're well positioned as we move into the 2014 political cycle as well.
With that Bob I'll turn it back to you.
Thanks a lot Jim.
Operator we're ready for questions now.
Okay? [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Aaron Watts Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So a few questions for me.
I guess first just thinking about moving from the fourth quarter to the first quarter what you're seeing on the categories that are driving your guidance.
Any big changes from kind of what you talked about and saw in the fourth quarter? I wouldn't say Aaron that there's significant changes.
Autos has been so far very healthy in first quarter.
Pace for the entire quarter is up over 10%.
Our auto in the month of January alone was just a minute about 6 -- up about 16%.
So it's very healthy there.
We have seen some slowness or softness in communications.
Some of that's from regional cellular operators like U.S.
Cellular that was expected.
That's not -- it wasn't really surprising.
We've seen a little softness from some larger -- a couple of larger MSOs as well in some markets.
We think that may be more just the timing of their ad spend for their own product releases and their own product placements.
So we don't -- we're not viewing that as a major red flag right now but we have seen some of that in first quarter.
Restaurants and -- is also been a little bit slower but not significantly different than what we saw in fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just thinking about rolling through the rest of the year implicant in your full year outlook for revenues it's ramping up from the pace you're seeing in the first quarter.
You've got Olympics kind of going away there but you've got probably an easier comp towards the end of year because of political pushout in 2012.
I mean is there anything else driving kind of better operating performance as you roll through the year after the first quarter? You're right about the Olympics.
We were pleased we did $1.1 million with our 20 CBS channels.
That's up 30% overall from the last time CBS had it.
Although it's actually the additional channels certainly the 3 extra channels helped that somewhat so actual same-station basis would be up a very healthy 19% 20%.
We're very pleased to see that.
We do have sales initiatives for the year that are in process.
Some of them are designed to roll out a little bit farther in the year.
You're right that we -- as we get into especially third and fourth quarter the core local national comps get easier because of the just the massive amount that political used in the inventory last year.
So we think the year builds upon itself.
On our Internet we are engaging in site redesigns that'll be rolling out this year which we think will help us be more salable later in the year.
We also are rolling out a mobile app tied to our Moms site which is a proprietary site within our overall Gray umbrella that we think has a lot of sales potential for us later in the year.
But it's a case of we've got to get the apps out deployed and in use before we can start ramping up the selling efforts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one for me.
This is a little bit more big picture.
But we've seen a lot of M&amp;A transactions in the space over the last 12 months.
Gray hasn't participated in those.
When do you think you would be able to participate in those to the extent you wanted to? Those that have have extolled the benefits of increased scale but I guess when do you think you get your leverage to a point where you could be acquisitive? Or do you see yourself as a better seller of assets? Aaron that's a legitimate question.
First of all we've been very particular about the stations we've bought down through the years.
First of all for us to be looking at stations it would have to fit our profile of being a #1 or a very strong #2 in a market we liked in a demographic area we liked.
And then I think it would have to be very accretive.
And frankly there's not many of those deals running around anywhere.
And as I mentioned earlier and we've all mentioned our #1 priority is paying down debt.
So it would just have to be a very compelling deal.
I think there are some things we can do the duopoly here that might make sense some -- those kind of things adding some more digital especially top 4 networks where we can find areas where they're not being served property those kind of things.
But just going out and making deals right now I think we're better off paying down debt as quick as we can especially we ought to be able to pay down a decent amount this year and then pay down a big chunk next year.
And like I said we've been -- I've had a philosophy from day 1 let's buy good stations in good markets and try to make them better and that's what we tried to do for the last 18 years.
So...
Moving on to the next question from Marci Ryvicker from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have a couple of just clarification questions on the guidance.
The first for the retransmission consent acceleration from the fourth quarter to the first quarter is this just annual escalators? Or do you have new deals coming up? Or did you sign any new deals at the end of '12? Marci it would reflect in part annual escalators that were billed in to the 3-year deals we've struck that went from -- that covered '12 '13 and '14.
We also to a certain extent as we've added the digital channels especially those 3 CBS digital channels last year there are some additional revenue coming in from those as well.
We have one large MSO contract that will be up for renewal October 31 of this year.
It covers roughly 1 million subscribers.
And that's a very old deal.
So we're obviously looking forward to our chance to reprice it to market.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
For the digital stations do you pay reverse comp to the networks on those? Yes.
And that's reflected in the overall expense numbers both in '12 and in '13.
LLC Research Division</strong> Would those be at similar rates as to your non-digital stations? It's hard to say to use -- those happen to be CBS and we really don't have comparisons yet with the rest of our CBS portfolio.
It may be a little bit -- a little bit better due to the nature of the facility.
It's just that we really don't know.
It's hard to compare.
I would -- I'd say it's not terribly dissimilar from FOX and NBC.
Obviously it involves a lot more stations and it would've been a -- it was a different negotiation as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess somewhat related the broadcast expense guidance for all of 2013 of that plus 2% to plus 2.5% growth what is the contribution from affiliation agreements? I think it's just NBC.
Is that the bulk of the increase in broadcasting...
No the bulk of the increase -- some of the increase is really driven by benefit -- employee benefit costs in healthcare and in pension.
There is some increase year-over-year in the aggregate amount of reverse comp we're paying.
So it would involve the stations we're already paying CBS for which is a few channels our NBC channels and our FOX channels.
That number in aggregate in 2012 was about 5.5 to 5.6 and because of full year effect of additional channels and pricing escalators and all of those agreements that number for 2013 is about 7.
If you give me a minute I'll look it up.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
In the meantime the last question maybe it's for Bob.
I just -- your full year revenue guidance do you have any expectation baked in for a pickup in the economy? That's a good question Marci.
I think -- I'd say our guidance is based on the economy being like it is right now.
If it picks up it'll be even better.
We try to wait till as late as possible to get our budget set just to get a better idea of what the economy is looking like.
And I would say most of our managers are cautiously optimistic.
I haven't heard anybody saying "Woe is me.
We're really in for trouble." I just haven't seen that and these guys are pretty close to the ground out there on what's going on on a daily basis in the markets we're in.
And I'd say most of them are cautiously optimistic and I think we'll hit our numbers if it stays like it is.
And if it gets better we'll be better.
And Marci that 2013 number again stressing that's in the aggregate so it involves multiple networks and multiple channels it's -- we're expecting about 7.1 versus a 5.6 for 2012.
We will now take our next question from David Seabird [ph] from Wells Fargo Securities.
I wanted to dig a little deeper on the core local national guidance for 2013.
Just wanted to know what some of the drivers were to have local outperform.
Is it heavier autos ad spend? Just trying to get more thoughts there.
First of all it's probably the math I mean and also our control of our local markets.
Certainly with our station dominance in many markets we're really able to push the local a lot harder than the national.
So I think that's reflective of the stronger growth rate.
I think our expectations in auto in general are that it's going to be very healthy all year long.
So that's certainly helpful.
And then national traditionally has been more of a price negotiation and we're always very sensitive and careful about our pricing on our national that we don't especially where we're a strong #1 or even a very competitive #2 we're always sensitive about not diminishing the overall pricing in the marketplace.
So we tend to be a little bit more picky on national business if the price points look pretty low to us which can obviously skew the national number a little bit as well.
Okay that's helpful.
And then have you guys provided any guidance on CapEx for 2013? It would be at a minimum of $15 million.
There's a possibility it could go a -- somewhat higher certainly not go past $20 million.
But at a minimum $15 million and a lot of that range would really depend on how strong the year ended up for us and how well -- if it hits our expectations or not.
As Bob mentioned earlier our continuing priority is to complete the HD build outs where we haven't done them.
We've got a few markets left we've got to start and finish.
We also have markets where we need to come back around and they have the basic capability but we certainly want to augment it.
We're also in '13 completing a building project for our North Carolina station which we think is a long-term very very good move for the station.
We're also -- we're able to in late '12 buy a building for our Colorado Springs facility which was in a as Bob described it it was in a giant Quonset hut and we will be completing the actual equipment build out of that facility in '13 as well.
So at a minimum $15 million and if the year goes well it might be a little bit higher.
Okay.
And then 2013 retrans up up nicely double digits.
Hate to jump ahead a year but correct me if I'm wrong you guys have some pretty sizable renewals in 2014 correct? We -- I'd already mentioned that we have a 1 million subs renewing on October 31 of this year.
We have another approximately 1 million subs that we'll renew December 31 of this year.
So certainly we have strong expectations for a significant increase in retrans as we get into '14.
Okay fair enough.
And then the last one for me on the spend side again.
How do you guys see syndicated programming playing out over the next year or 2? Actually that cost is moderated.
Our total costs over the last few years has come down a little bit.
I think it's -- we don't see any big increases there over the next several years.
I think by and large we feel we're in pretty good shape on the syndicated front.
And as Bob pointed out in some cases where the pricing is just getting way too rich on certain syndicated products where it make sense to us and where we can make money we're just as happy to put in news.
We will now take our next question from George Heim [ph] from Core Partners [ph].
Just a quick question on the consulting revenue from Young Broadcasting.
I guess just correct me if I'm wrong but there is a possibility for you guys to see some incentive revenue in the second quarter when they have their audited financials? We plan to yes.
And the contract was over in December but they will definitely pay us an incentive payment as soon their audit's done.
Yes.
Yes I guess if I'm thinking it correctly if their -- even if their EBITDA is flat from 2010 to 2012 you're in line for probably more than $3 million? I wouldn't want to speculate but I think it'll be a nice payment yes.
Next we'll take a question from Barry Lucas from Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> A couple of quickies.
One is a quibble on the expense guidance somewhat similar to the revenue guidance.
You've got a fairly healthy ramp in 1Q for your operating expenses and...
Barry we always give raises in the first quarter and that usually is why first quarter usually ramps up.
That evens out as the year goes along.
And Barry you also have in Q1 this year we've got the additional digital CBSs in operational.
That wasn't there Q1 last year.
Also as the year goes on we paid significant amounts in national sales rep commission last year because of the political revenue and there's a natural savings on that as we progress through the year and obviously without the political this year.
Inc.</strong> Since you've indicated that priority 1 for free cash at least in the near term is paying down debt and you could be an enlightened observer let's say of the M&amp;A market.
How do you see that evolving this year Bob? I think there'll be some -- more deals coming out this year.
You just hear through the deal grapevine that there's several more groups thinking about putting themselves up for as they say speaking [ph] alternatives so corporate alternatives.
So I wouldn't be surprised to see some more come on the market.
The ones that are out there for sale now Barrington and Fisher ComCorp I would assume something will on all those deals in the not too distant future.
So there's definitely an appetite that wasn't there for -- basically no deals done '09 '10 until late '11.
So it's nice to see the -- that there are people who want to buy.
But I think most of the deals are strategic buyers now.
I think the private equity guys are pretty much on the sideline right now but we're probably better off as an industry for this cheesy buyers to -- and I think there's an appetite for consolidation there's no doubt about that.
You're seeing more of that and I think that will continue.
Inc.</strong> One other and it's great to see the mobile traffic and the downloads and the access that people have either via smartphones or tablets.
But how do you get paid for that? We're selling sponsorships mainly on mobile.
We've done a pretty good job with that.
We pretty much cover our cost on the mobile.
The problem for the mobile for everybody in the business they're always saying about the Internet turning dollars into dimes well the mobile turns dimes into pennies.
And you've got to be aware that the mobile -- they're not going to get the kind of dollars that we've gotten in the past.
But the mobile is growing so fast it could make up for that in a lot of ways.
And we're looking for new ways.
Apps are becoming more and more important.
We try and develop more apps all the time to make sure we make it easier for people to access the information on the mobile.
And I think obviously one of the key elements of mobile and we're working -- trying to work on more is weather.
And if you're walking around town and you've got your mobile -- your smartphone with you and you want to know what to -- what the weather's coming up there's no better place than to go to your local station and see what the weather is doing.
So I think this is an area where we can work on doing a better job on sponsorships and making sure we got local weather apps that people can get to real easy.
[Operator Instructions] Moving on we'll take our next question from Robert Tanner [ph] a private investor.
The earnings report was sensational.
They were outstanding.
They were very exciting.
How do you feel like...
We like them too.
I'm sure you did.
I've been a fan of you all for so many years and I have got a great deal of stock in the company and I just -- I see great things in the future for Gray Television.
It just keeps getting better and better.
Do you think today's earnings report will push the stock higher since this morning there was a considerable drop in the stock as you've noticed.
And so what do you think the reason for that is? What would that...
I'm not sure.
We've had a real good run up the stock for the last 6 months.
There may be some people taking some profits now that we've got a new year going.
As I said I think we're going to be in for a good year this year and I think people will recognize that.
We're still trading at a very low multiple of free cash flow probably the lowest in the industry.
And I think more investors are realizing that free cash flow is a very important element for any company.
But we're very proud of our strong free cash flow and we think more and more people in the market will recognize it.
I sure hope so and it's very exciting.
I look forward to come over there in Atlanta and maybe coming and visiting you.
We'd love to see you.
We're here all the time and we're easy to find.
And Jim and I and Hilton we're all here.
So you're welcome to come by anytime.
And based on the earnings report for the last quarter of last year you do see very promising things in the future for Gray Television don't you? Yes sir.
I sure do.
Okay.
All right.
So we just need to put it in the drawer stick in there for the long run and in this fiscal year here coming up we can continue to see escalation in stock prices don't you think? I hope so.
That's what I've done.
So I'm a -- I've been buying the stock for a long time and I think it's a good buy.
I think it's a better buy than it has been in a long time.
So we -- I think we've got a very strong base of stations and markets and a very strong management team especially our -- Jim is out in the stations and I think we're in for the long run being a very strong company.
Okay.
Do you think that there could be a possible proverbial bounce from today's report in the stock tomorrow? Is that...
I don't know.
It's a good question.
I'm not a stock market expert but I would hope -- I sure hope the market recognizes we've got a real strong company here.
So...
Moving on we'll take our next question from Dan Charleston from Global Credit Advisers.
Question about the capital allocation use of free cash.
You mentioned debt reduction do you think about a target leverage ratio over the next year or 2? And then I guess a follow-up would be some of your competitors are paying out dividends on their common.
Have you thought about that as a potential use of free cash? I think all our options are on the table.
We -- our board studies things every quarter we meet.
We look at it -- Jim and I keep a very close eye on the financial markets.
I think right now we need to get our debt to cash flow ratios a little stronger before we consider moves like that.
But we've been a dividend payer in the past and I don't see why we can't be again in the future.
But I think in the short term it's more important to spend the capital we think we need to spend and pay down debt.
Okay.
And target leverage ratio if at all? Yes I would really like to be down in the 4s in election year and then low 5s at a non-election year.
I feel comfortable at those levels and I think TV groups in general probably feel comfortable at those levels.
So I think that's kind of my goal firstly and I think Jim and I have talked about it and Hilton and I think it's a good goal for us as a company.
Let's move on to Andrew Finkelstein from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A couple of bigger picture questions for me.
Bob I don't know.
It seems like there's been some more pressure on the network ratings again.
Just wondering if you're seeing any impact on your news ratings or any of your shoulder programming from that? Andrew we haven't.
But I do -- I think there's concern about it seems like a lot of the new programming is not yet free to the networks this year pretty much.
I think we're in great shape because CBS has got so many long-running leading shows on.
But all those cogs and things come to an end.
NBC can tell you that.
They were on top for a long time and when Seinfeld and Cheers and E.R.
all those shows eased out all of a sudden they looked up and said "Where's the programming?" And so I think it's new programming is important to -- for the industry.
As I've said before though luckily most of our very strong stations are pretty much independent of the networks' fortune.
Year in and year out our #1 stations stay #1 no matter what the fortunes of the network are having.
And as I mentioned to you earlier we're trying to put on more news.
We want to be less dependent on the networks and more in total control of our own destiny so to speak.
And so I think we will -- we're going to continue to do that.
The networks there'll be a new programming guru to come along in one of the networks and you'll just they'll all of a sudden have a bunch of new programs that everybody likes.
But in the short term like I said I don't think it will affect us.
If I think if all of the networks ratings were declining year after year we'd be concerned too.
But it just looks like everybody had kind of a bad year picking what would work so far.
So I know yes so where CBS canceled a show this we week.
They had 2 episodes.
So they've got a lot shorter fuse they use to have too.
So I think you're going to see -- it's amazing how much it costs to develop a pilot and then to run 2 episodes somebody lost a chunk of money there.
So...
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then from the field are you guys seeing any tougher competition from some of the other options on the local level whether it's local cable radio or Internet? Kind that you play...
Yes it's a great question.
I think it's something I preached to our managers all the time that their competition is not only the stations in town but it is Google it is these Hulu.
It's all these things Netflix that are out there that are taking eyes away from our broadcasts.
So I think it's very important that we're well aware that there's a lot of competition out there.
And we've got to have compelling programming that'll keep them coming back to us.
Research Division</strong> But so far no change in what you're seeing at least from last year that...
Not really.
I haven't seen any kind of drastic change.
No.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just want to ask just given the changing landscape and some of the M&amp;A activity where do you see the TV business going? Do you think the smaller mid-sized markets that you guys are focused on is still the right place to be? Or is there any need to have some larger market presence? You in for renegotiations? We certainly hope so.
We like the mid-sized markets.
We think the markets we're in in most cases have better growth profiles than the bigger markets.
I think in most cases they've got better demographics especially university towns and state capitals.
And we like the size markets we're in.
We like the markets where we've got maybe 4 stations instead of 15 like they got in some of the big markets.
And we've done real well in these sized markets.
And that's where we want to keep our focus.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one for me I appreciate it.
Just over time I mean how do you feel about the net retrans number to you guys once you get through those network affiliation agreements? Do you think you can continue to grow retrans on a net basis over time? Or are we going to have to see some pullback in that profit line to you guys? I would certainly hope so.
That's one of my main goals.
I think it's very important for us at Gray Television that we really pound home to the networks how important we are to them.
We out-index the networks in every single market we're in and we bring a lot of viewers to them not necessarily vice versa.
I don't want to lose any of the networks but we're an important source of eyeballs for them and I think we need to emphasize that we're more important to them than a poor #3 or #4 station in the market that's got a poor news product.
And I think it's incumbent upon us to negotiate hard with these guys and let them know that hey we think we've got a better product out there than a lot of other people.
Research Division</strong> Does the spectrum auctions voluntary? Does that improve your position at all if some of the smaller guys were to go down the road? It probably would.
I mean I think those auctions are just still way up in the air and way down the road.
I don't think anybody knows what's going to happen.
They may wind up being a lot more lucrative than anybody thinks or they may be a bust.
I think nobody knows right now.
And until they actually get a process in place and get congress on board and everybody on board on exactly how they're going to do it it's just a speculation that I'm not enough of a prophet to figure that one out.
But we're using our spectrum.
We've got 42 digital channels on the air.
That's profitable for us.
We save a little space for live mobile if we can ever figure out -- the industry to figure out how to make that work right.
So I mean I think we're a poster child for making the spectrum work like it was supposed to work initially when congress gave it to TV stations.
Moving on to our next question from Larry Schnurmacher [ph] from Morgan Stanley.
I was just -- I don't know if I missed this or not did you mention what the debt-pay-down strategy is? How much? How you plan on doing that? When? Stuff like that throughout the year that's I think it's key to the puzzle? Yes.
Jim you want to answer that one? Larry I commented that based on our full year guidance out there and also even if you kind of look at what we did in 2011 and know with our full year guidance that we expect '13 to be a better operating cash flow year than '11 by a relatively significant amount.
And then $48 million of cash interest plus even if you went on the high side of the CapEx number you can easily get to a free cash flow number that's in the $40-plus million range.
And you can do your own math and everybody will probably come up with a slightly different answer based on their assumptions.
But certainly that would not be unreasonable right now.
And we've already said that that free cash flow would be used to reduce debt.
And I would expect that our debt reductions would probably be more backloaded into the latter half to the latter third of the year.
But as we begin to build up some cash and we clearly are not going to have a short-term use for we will -- I wouldn't be surprised from time to time during the year we made some modest reductions as we went along.
Okay so a number or do we make our own up? Well I'm saying that free cash is probably around $40 million and most of that if not all of it would probably go to debt reduction.
So -- what I think though is that the reductions happen more in the second half of the year than early in the year.
And is any debt rolling or possibly renegotiated during the year? Well we just refinanced completely last fall -- our senior facility has a soft call for the first year at 1/01.
So I guess you never say never but it seemed to me you'd have to be getting an extremely good reduction in rate to make it worth your while.
And all of our maturities are long term at this point so there's no compelling need whatsoever to refinance anything.
It well may be that the rate reduction was so attractive that it was -- it made sense.
And never say never but I -- that would be a high-class problem to have.
And we'll take our final question from Alex Carnelli [ph] from SM Investors [ph].
Some of them were answered.
Just for me one clarification on the 2013 revenue guidance.
Are the production and other revenues are they embedded in the guidance or should I think of adding something to reflect that? That number is relatively small.
So we historically have not really commented on it in our guidance.
It would be -- the production revenue is probably consistent with '12.
The other portion of that though we did have about $1.7 million $1.8 million in 2012 of copyright royalties that were basic -- copyright tribunal cleared out backlog years from I think it was 2004 through 2008 or '09 but maybe even longer.
So that was kind of a windfall that certainly we wouldn't expect to repeat it.
But other than that I would think generally that those lines are relatively consistent year-to-year.
That'll be around $7 million to $8 million with pretty good margins is that correct? It's tower rent call it.
Is that correct? It's tower rentals.
It's commercial production.
It's a few other odds and ends.
It was $8 -- I think it was $8.9 million call it $9 million in '12.
It would be like I said probably $2 million lower simply because we won't have that royalty tribunal windfall that came in in '12 that was totally unexpected.
And at this time I'd like to turn the conference back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
I want to thank everybody for being on our call.
We appreciate your support.
As I always say you could call us any time.
We're here.
We answer our own phones.
Looking forward to I said I feel like a good year this year and look forward to talking to you at the end of the first quarter.
Thank you everybody.
Thank you.
That will conclude our conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Gray Television's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Hilton Howell.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you very much operator and good morning everyone.
Welcome to the first quarter 2013 Gray Television Earnings Call.
We appreciate your time your attendance and your support of our company.
As usual I will have a few brief comments and will be followed by Bob Prather our Chief Operating Officer; and then Jim Ryan our Chief Financial Officer will add his thoughts to this quarter's results.
Questions will follow.
We are off to a very good start for 2013 and have reported a very solid quarter.
We beat our high-end guidance on revenue reporting $78.2 million in revenue for the quarter compared to $80.1 million during a political year in 2012.
That represents a 3% or $1.9 million decrease.
The decrease was entirely driven by a drop in political revenue from $4.3 million from last year's quarter to $600 000 this quarter.
Of our 5 largest local and national advertising categories automotive medical restaurants communications and furniture and appliances automotive has increased by 12%; medical has decreased by 8%; restaurants decreased by 2%; communications decreased by 8%; and furniture and appliances have increased by 5%.
For the quarter we reported net income of $870 000 or $0.02 per share compared to net income of $2.2 million or $0.04 per share last year.
I would like also to use this opportunity to publicly welcome Michael Spies into our company.
Almost everyone in the broadcast industry knows Michael and we are so pleased that he brings his expertise in national advertising to Gray Television.
All of us believe that he will be able to represent the company as a compelling advertising buy because Gray's local television meets -- media offers -- represents an excellent opportunity for our national advertising customers.
We believe that he will be able to even more effectively represent our company to the national advertisers by being part of our company.
I also want to take a special moment to recognize the dramatic loss from the explosion in West Texas and how it has impacted so many of our viewers in that community.
Our thoughts and our prayers go out to all those who has suffered due to this horrific explosion and the many personal tragedies it has created.
In West for those of you who don't know over 350 homes were destroyed or damaged.
15 people were killed 12 of which were first responders and the explosion created a crater 90 feet in diameter and 10 feet deep.
It destroyed a building that had a concrete foundation 3 feet thick and tossed concrete up to 150 yards away.
Our coverage of this catastrophe was superb.
Bob Bunch and his entire team at KWTX in Waco Texas my hometown should be complemented on their superb wall-to-wall coverages.
Their professionalism dedication and love of community represents the highest standards in broadcast industry and in all of our local media properties.
Of note in addition to our dominant viewership in the community our website received 1.9 million page views and 260 000 video views.
We received a 16% growth in Facebook fans 61% of which came from mobile viewers and a 21% growth in Twitter followers.
So many people were involved in our efforts that I cannot publicly thank them all.
But for those investors including myself on this call this morning it is this kind of coverage provided by KWTX that makes our investment in Gray Television of continuing value.
With that let me turn it over to Bob for his comments.
Thanks Hilton.
I want to welcome everybody and tell you we had a good quarter.
I think we're all a little bit -- after having such a great year last year a little bit nervous about what this year is going to bring but it started out strong and our GMs are telling me their markets are looking good for second quarter and beyond.
So while I think the economy is still fragile I think people realize the value of advertising in today's world.
I always use a quote a lot of times that Confucius said about "May you live in interesting times." I think we are living in some very very interesting times.
Back in 2009 we had about 6 investment banks come in and advice us and everybody in the television broadcasting business to file a bankruptcy sometime the next 12 months.
And then 2010 the same 6 came back and advised us to sell stocks.
So what's going on today doesn't surprise me.
It's just a -- I think it's a reaffirmation that TV has been a good business and will be a good business.
A lot of merger and acquisition activity going on.
We look at a lot of these things.
Really so far we haven't found a deal that's compelling enough to -- that fits our criteria and compelling enough that we felt we could buy at the right price and make it accretive for us.
So I think all of you know our #1 priority is paying down debt which we want to continue to do.
But if the right deal came along at the right price I think you know we've been willing to move on those kind of things in the past.
But our #1 priority will continue to get our balance sheet in better shape and to make ourselves a much more efficient and productive company going forward.
On that note we are continuing with our automation projects.
We are doing a -- most of our stations in our larger markets will have automation and this year we will have virtually all our local HD done except in a couple of very small markets and they will be finished up early next year.
So we think we'll be in a position in over the next few years to be top of the market in efficiency and newsgathering.
We're still doing a lot with the mobile -- in the mobile area as far as newsgathering with our TVU units which are backpack multitask journalism units.
Our Chief Technology Officer Jim Ocon has come up with an idea which we've gotten approved and patented that will allow us to do what's called hotspots in our local markets where we can actually do the Internet live Internet without having to go through the phone companies which should be a tremendous savings for us of operating expenses in the years ahead.
But all these things we're trying to stay at the very cutting edge of technology without jumping off the ledge so to speak.
We're very careful about trying these out in selected markets and when they work then we roll them out pretty fast.
But so far it's been working great for us and we want to continue to be the #1 news source in the towns we're in and continue to be the technology leader in the towns we're in and make sure we're out there doing the right thing for these communities both from the news coverage side and from the news technology side.
So I know the viewers don't really care what's going on in the backroom but I think they do care about getting the fastest most efficient news in their markets.
And I tell everybody all our managers nowadays our competition is any of you people walking down the street with an iPhone that takes a video and puts it up on YouTube 30 seconds later and suddenly you're the breaking news in that town.
So we're embracing Twitter we're embracing Facebook we're embracing Pinterest all of these social media that people really have embraced worldwide and we're trying to make sure that we're in the same camp they are as far as our news gathering and our relationship with our communities and our communication with the people in our town.
So I think this will continue to be important.
I think Hilton mentioned Waco.
I think our -- Bob Bunch and his team out there doing an incredible job.
We were on-air 28 hours of uninterrupted coverage and I think we clearly were the station in town for people to watch.
They wanted to know what was going on on that horrible tragedy that happened outside of Waco in West Texas.
I think this year the rest of the year I think is going to be a good year.
We will continue the path we're on right now.
As I said we always keep an open mind to look at possible additions to the company.
But in the meantime our #1 priority is going to be continue to strengthen our balance sheet.
At this point I'll turn it over to Jim Ryan and he can go over some numbers for you.
Jim? Thanks Bob.
Good morning everyone.
I'll focus my comments primarily on the balance sheet because I think between Hilton and Bob they kind of covered the highlights of the operating results for the first quarter which again we were very pleased with.
From a balance sheet perspective total debt at the end of the quarter was $835 million.
We had $20 million of cash on the balance sheet as well.
Our trailing 8-quarter average cash flow is defined in our credit facility.
Again it's a 2-year average definition of the credit facility with $136.5 million which put our leverage ratio under the credit facility at 5.97 against the covenant of 7.75.
Certainly as Bob said the first priority will be continue to reduce debt with free cash flow generation this year.
So that average leverage ratio will be coming down during the course of the year.
Our CapEx for the quarter was $6.4 million.
We had $81 000 in cash taxes $2.9 million in syndicated program payments and $2.8 million of program amortization.
Turning briefly to the guidance for second quarter.
Again as Bob had indicated we feel very good about the quarter and where it's going.
We see core growth local national x political of course but in a very healthy 7% range which we're very very pleased about.
We'll also see continuing growth in the retrans number basically because of the addition of some additional channels as well as normal price increases in the retrans.
As we've talked before we do have a large contract coming up for repricing about 1 million subscribers at the end of this -- at the end of October.
And we're looking forward to stepping that up to current market rates and we have another 1 million subscribers on a different contract that will be repriced at the end of this year as well.
So we'll have a significant step-up in the retrans as we head into early '14.
At this point Bob I'll turn it back you.
Thanks Jim.
Operator we're ready for questions at this time.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Aaron Watts from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So I just wanted to start out with a question obviously it feels like based on your guidance the momentum in your core advertising continues to be quite good.
And if I think about for instance what we heard last night from CBS and I know you have a bunch of CBS affiliates so they're not seeing as good a performance.
Can you maybe just talk about some of the variances there? If you think that's big market versus smaller market or what else might be going on that's allowing you to outperform? Aaron I think it's probably a combination of things.
Network advertising is really -- we're almost disconnected from it.
It sounds crazy but I think you've all seen our presentation in the past where our #1 stations stayed #1 year in and year out even when then network that they represented was even as low as #3.
Including CBS was a poor #3 back 10 12 years ago and all our CBS stations maintained their #1 status in the past.
So I think there's a lot of -- and trying to think of the right word experimentation I guess.
I've used that term before on these advertisers on so many different ways they can advertise now.
And the big guys all want to try big things.
And so sometimes they move money out of TV and put it in something else or it gets moved around.
I think everybody's been a little nervous about the upfront this year not looking quite as strong.
But on the local level our businesses stayed strong.
And when we refer to the term national business it's a little bit a misnomer.
What national business means to a local broadcaster is it means the advertising was involved in our market.
In other words international advertiser buys a what we call a national ad.
They may only be buying in 2 or 3 of our stations or 5 or 10 rarely ever all our stations.
But we call that national advertising because the buyer came from somewhere outside of our market.
So same way with what we'd call a regional ad where we get a like for example a lot of the fast food groups have regional ad groups where their ads may be bought in Chicago for example for all the Midwest.
We call that our -- we term that under national regional and not local even though it may only be in 8 or 10 of our market.
So the network business and our business is a lot different.
I guess that's what I'm trying to say in -- while we pay attention to it and we want our networks to be doing good and it helps us that CBS has the #1 ratings right now it's not a drastic effect on us day in and day out.
Hope I didn't make it too long.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No that makes sense.
And just one follow-up I'm curious within your kind of station portfolio group are you seeing variances between the different affiliations? So CBS versus your NBC affiliates for instance just based on some of the network viewership trends right now? Or is that also less impactful? Here again I think NBC probably because they've been so weak in a lot of areas other than Monday night with The Voice they've hurt us some in the past because they're in some of our bigger markets.
They're in Omaha in Madison in Charleston Huntington some of our bigger markets.
The 10:00 lead-in being weak has hurt our 11:00 news.
I don't think there's any doubt of that.
And the Leno disastrous experiment back a couple of years ago hurt us then.
But here again if we've got a strong affiliate in a market and the market itself is doing fine usually our affiliates is going to be doing fine even if the prime time ratings are hurting.
One of the areas that we do see -- NBC's morning stuff is -- we haven't seen it affect the status [ph] yet but I mean that makes me nervous because that's been so strong for so long that I don't want those guys to slip off the perch there.
And the Good Morning America is giving them a run for their money and been actually ahead of them a couple of times.
But that's a key element for NBC.
And I think morning is we've talked about before is becoming more and more important in the TV business.
Our morning news it gets better every year.
Our ratings get better and we want to make sure we got a good lead-in and then a follow-up afterward coming out of whatever morning show NBC ABC and CBS have.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last question for me.
You talked about the M&amp;A going on and how you haven't participated to date.
Do you feel like as other groups get larger that you'll be at a disadvantage negotiating distribution agreements programming agreements and the such if you don't participate and get larger scale? That's a good question Aaron.
I would say I think we're big enough to have enough clout and we've got -- as long as we keep our strong station with strong ratings in these markets the syndicators want to be on our air.
We have Wheel and Jeopardy in 22 markets and we've had them for over 30 years and they continue to be leading syndicated programming for us.
And they -- we just renewed for another I think 2 3 years at very good prices.
So I think the strength of our local stations give us an edge there.
And look being bigger like these AT&amp;T commercials maybe being bigger is better.
But we want to get better and bigger if we grow.
So we'd like to like I said maintain our discipline on the kind of stations we buy and maintain our discipline as far as how we run them.
So I think that's more important than being big just to be big.
Look David Smith is a friend of mine extremely smart guy.
I'm proud of what he's doing.
I think it's good for the industry.
I give David -- he knows I clap for him every time he does something.
And he's really been a leader.
He was leader in the retrans effort back several years ago and he's obviously got a good thing going there and I'm all for him continuing to grow continuing to build his business.
But we've always had a different I guess game plan.
You can have 2 different game plan and both of them would be good.
But we keep a close eye on M&amp;A.
And like I said if we see a deal that really makes sense for us and we can justify it under our current mantra we want to make sure we get our balance sheet in better order we'll take a hard look at it.
Our next question will come from Marci Ryvicker from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> First question I have is your second quarter seems to be accelerating in core advertising.
I'm just curious if it's being driven by certain categories if some of that were down in the first quarter have turned positive or any color you can give us on why your second quarter is so strong.
Jim you want to take that one? Marci in part we had thought all along that the year would start relatively slowly and then start to take up as the year goes on.
And certainly one of the things to keep in mind with us is that as we go farther and farther into the year there was an awful lot of political spots sold last year.
And certainly the political buyers aren't there this year but we'll still be selling spots.
So obviously local and national absorbed some of that which is obviously a good thing.
I think the trendline on categories so far of what we're seeing in second quarter is not extremely dissimilar from first.
Autos is -- auto was strong in the first quarter.
It's continuing to be very strong.
We are seeing an uptick in the communications category at least as far as current pacing goes from the first quarter.
And I think some of that is just some -- whether they were MVPDs that do air buys in our markets or other telco companies I think that's just some dollar shifting as people work their own marketing plans and strategies.
And certainly because of that quarter-to-quarter you could get some volatility there.
Other things are generally consistent.
So all in all the second quarter is good and certainly we think the second half of the year ought to be pretty good too.
LLC Research Division</strong> So do you anticipate acceleration throughout the year? Is that what your underlying commentary is referring to? Well it's -- we would expect a pretty good third quarter.
It's a little bit -- that's a little farther out to say exactly how good; certainly a very strong second quarter.
I think third quarter naturally is a little weaker for everybody in the business.
So there'll be some of that just the natural cycle of the dollar spend slows up during the summer a little bit.
And I think fourth quarter if the year tracks like we would expect and certainly the economy continues along at about the current pace or improves slightly we -- fourth quarter would show some more acceleration too over second a little bit more.
But some of that is just going to be again replacing political dollars with core local and national dollars replacing some of the political dollars with core local and national dollars.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And CBS has been one of the networks talking about when the potential responses to Aereo is taking the broadcast model and pretty much going straight to cable.
How do you feel about this possibility? And does it -- will it happen number one? And number two what do you think it would do to the TV station business model? Marci we've talked -- Jim and I have talked about that a lot.
First of all I think part of it is just some posturing for the lawsuit.
Number two I think it would be very difficult because of -- I'll use 3 elements.
Number one NFL they got a 9-year deal and the NFL definitely does not want to go all broadcast TV.
Number two would be NCAA Final Four same situation and then number three is Congress.
I'm not sure that Congress is ready to give away a free broadcast model.
And so all of those things enter.
And then there are a lot of companies signing agreements right now with CBS for 5 years 6 years 7 years in affiliation deals and they don't just abrogate those.
I don't think so.
I know Aereo has got all these guys spooked and winding it's way through the courts right now.
I don't think anybody knows the ultimate outcome.
But I think we need to be figuring out a way to make sure our audience wants to keep us where we are.
And I don't think at the end of the day any industry can fight technology that's coming.
I think we need to figure out a way.
We're content providers and we got to figure out a way to make sure we get the content to our viewers however they want it and I think we've got to embrace all these areas.
So I think it would be very difficult for these guys to do that.
I'm not saying that's impossible but I think Congress at some point is going to have something to say about this because I think even though we're only probably talking about 10% of the population now that 10% is the elderly and the poor and a lot of people in those categories that I don't think Congress wants to offend.
So that's my answer to the CBS and the FOX issues ongoing.
And also at the end of the day we're very important to them with our local news.
You've seen our presentation before.
We have 2x or 3x many viewers on our local news as they do.
We bring viewers to them and not vice versa.
So we're important to them in the markets we're in.
We're not a huge factor obviously nationally but in the markets we're in we're a very important factor to all our networks.
Does that answer your question? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
Perfect.
And now we'll go on to Larry Schnurmacher [ph] with Morgan Stanley.
On one of the reviews I see Capital IQ has a couple of estimates.
I'm not sure where they get those estimates from.
But they're saying that your guidance is a little light according to their -- what they have as estimates of $87.5 million for I guess that's revenue and you guys are guiding to $84.7 million $85.7 million.
I guess where do they get those estimates? And was that your stuff or is that light or is that just their...
I have no idea where they get their estimates.
You'd have to ask them.
But I think again if you go back and look and see where core local core national is up a very healthy 7% range maybe a little bit more than that I would consider that to be a very healthy growth rate for core business especially in an off political year.
I agree.
I was just curious if you [indiscernible] And you've followed us for a very very long time.
You know that we if anything we try to be a little conservative in our guidance because the last thing we've tried very hard over the years not try to overpromise and underdeliver.
And I think our track record has said that we're usually in range or slightly above range but we're pretty good about delivering on what we say we can deliver.
And if we can do a little better we certainly go for it and push it all that we can.
Okay.
Also just -- I might have missed this did you say anything about resolving any more -- paying down any more debt or anything along those lines? Well again most of the free cash flow this year that we'll generate and really that most -- a lot of that generation is because of natural cash use and timing of interest payments and stuff will happen more towards the back of the year.
But the first priority with the free cash flow this year would be to reduce debt.
Our next question will come from Larry Haverty with GAMCO.
Larry are you there? [Technical Difficulty] We'll go on to our next question from Barry Lucas from Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Just really 2 items Bob.
On -- just coming back to the M&amp;A front and with the understanding that debt reduction is job #1 this year.
But how would you prioritize the perfect deal for Gray in this environment where so many stations are coming to market? So is it affiliation-specific is it geography-specific or is it all a matter of price? Frankly it boils down to -- we've been at the same criteria for 20 years now Barry.
We want to -- we like to find #1 our strong #2 stations in what we consider good markets big 4 affiliates ideally and we've had a bias to CBS usually because CBS has strong news operations in local markets but -- and we want to have a strong news operation.
We're not looking for turnarounds.
I always say we like to turn up situation where we think we can come in and make a good thing better and we've been able to do that pretty successfully over the years.
And obviously in the today's world I think here again we wanted to be accretive if possible.
I mean we're -- I guess if it was neutral it'd be okay.
But we don't want to have our debt to cash flow ratio jump up with an acquisition.
So that might sound impossible to find but we've been -- we've found them in the past and I think we'll find them again in the future.
Inc.</strong> Great.
And if we could just touch on the other use of cash and cap spending.
It's a nonpolitical year so your free cash is down a bit.
Where do you think CapEx is this year? And with some of those big projects winding down '14 and '15 where do you think that CapEx number stays or goes? We're running -- we're actually moving in to the 2 new buildings this year Barry that we have.
One of them was under construction for latter part of last year and this year.
The other one we bought but we're actually doing some renovation.
And we're doing this for 2 reasons.
One we just need a new building but as I think I've talked about before we're going from much bigger space down and much smaller buildings as we think there going to be much more automated network to very energy-efficient trying to come up with what we call a prototype of the station of the future.
So we're spending a little extra money doing that.
I think if you -- and then we've got a couple of these what we call small add-on acquisitions.
We bought the station out in North Platte which is market 209 and we had it with our CBS affiliates in there.
And we bought a small station in Milton Alabama where we're going to have an NBC along with our CBS there.
All of those added together around $22 million.
But like I said probably $4 million or $5 million of that will be involved in those buildings and acquisitions.
We -- I would say our normal CapEx for this -- a year like this would be $15 million.
In a political year next year probably to wrap up everything we need to do.
And frankly we got a couple older facilities out there we'd still like to look at possibly if these buildings were as good as we think doing the same thing.
We've got some valuable real estate we think we could sell off now that the market's better and actually pay for the buildings and the new equipment with real estate we sold from the old properties.
So those are kind of the things we're looking at and -- but I would say $20 million in a political year $15 million in a normal off year.
For the next 2 or 3 years it's probably reasonable for us to look at.
It's probably no more than that.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question will come from Davis Hebert with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask a question about auto up nicely in Q1.
It sounds like it's a pretty big driver of your revenue guidance this year.
I know the notion is to look at SAR and unit sales and talk about the growth we're expecting to see from the industry.
But maybe if you could drill down a little bit to the micro level? What's going on at the local dealer level from their comfort level in spending versus the OEMs and then foreign versus domestic? David I would say local dealers are feeling really good right now and I think it really boils down to 2 key things.
If you go back to '09 -- really the end of '08 '09 and '10 and even '11 part of '11 the amount of cars being built and amount of cars being sold was almost 50% under historical levels.
So there's been a huge pent-up demand.
The other thing that happened in '09 and '10 was financing virtually dried up for auto for a point there.
And so people just couldn't get financing that was decent to buy a car.
Both of those things have turnaround.
They're producing a lot more.
They're up to I think going to be 15 million 16 million cars this year and the financing rates are incredibly cheap right now.
And then the other thing is incredibly is leasing is back.
So leasing virtually disappeared in '09 and '10.
All these things are just -- it's manna from heaven for the average local dealer.
And I think they're all trying to -- I think the biggest problem I've actually heard is them getting product.
They're -- most of the real strong dealers the biggest complaint they get right now is getting product.
So I think you're going to see the auto continue to be very strong.
I think it would take a drastic -- something happening in the economy that macro that none of us could foresee right now to slow down the auto business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's a good answer.
And then a different topic Intel talking about rolling out a pay-TV service to compete with cable and others.
Have you had any discussions with them? Or do you feel like that's a positive for the industry? Can we see what it is? Here again I think I've said earlier I think we got to consider ourselves content providers.
We got to consider ourselves the #1 I'll use the term again local news source in the markets we're in.
And we've got to convince the people that live in those markets if they want to get local news we're the place to come.
We're using the technology we need to get it to them and I think that's the key for us as a company is we got to be flexible in the way we look at how we deliver the product.
Think about it 3 years ago we weren't doing any tablets or desktop or mobile.
We're doing all that now and doing a job of it.
And I think live mobile is right around the corner again hopefully.
And I think you're going to see more ways for us to -- we can -- people can get TV through the Xbox now and through all kind of other devices.
So I think Intel I don't know I think they've been pretty quiet about exactly what they're going to do.
But if there's a way for us to utilize it to get content to markets we're -- we'll utilize it.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then a question for Jim cash taxes for the quarter and I apologize if you already gave it? Yes it was de minimis.
It was $81 000.
And we do have Larry Haverty back into the question.
So I'll ask the same thing more or less in retail.
Do you see any change in the mode of your retail customers indicating that they might be feeling better or worse? Larry that's a good question.
I would say retailers are nervous.
I would use that term.
I think business is okay for them right now but I think most of them are nervous.
I think the showroom-ing stuffs scares them to death.
I think they're all looking -- I think the penny debacle has scared retailers at thinking about trying something different.
So I would say retailers are nervous.
We haven't seen a drastic drop from retailers but the people I talk to in that business are -- they just -- they're nervous about a lot of things going on in their industry that they don't feel like they really got any control over.
Tell them to spend some time with their auto friends.
Yes yes exactly.
Yes.
Well the worm turns as they say.
So I think they need to the patient.
If you read about Bed Bath &amp; Beyond and the guys that really know what they're doing out there they're cooking along pretty good right now.
So I think you just got to have a -- you got to be good in what you do to survive in today's world.
Our next question will come from Patrick Fitzgerald [ph] with Robert W.
Baird.
I wanted to ask you about the non-presidential year in 2014 given the emergence of super PACs political spending.
How should we think about that compared to  2010 and 2012? Our off-years have been going off every year.
I'm not sure if they're going to this year.
We had a really strong -- we had a record off-year in '11.
I think there's not as many voices out there this time.
We are seeing -- here's your money coming in some markets already in Florida.
We've seen it in Wisconsin.
So there is -- the off-years are getting better every year.
I don't know if this will be a record year like '11 was or not.
Right now we're not budgeting that but we've been surprised in the past.
And what about 2014? I know it's a long ways from then but...
I think here again I think Republicans are still licking their wounds.
I think they're more getting mad and get it even and get somebody elected President.
I'm sure that Democrats feel strong about the -- how the demographics are working in their favor.
But both sides they've proved they can raise tremendous amounts of money in today's world.
And if they raise the money they're going to spend it.
So I see no reason not to do better than we did in '12 in '14 frankly.
Patrick this is Hilton.
Can I add one think to Bob's comment on the political front? We saw one thing in 2012 broadly and certainly in all of our markets and that was the President and the market with advertising very very early probably historically early in the cycle and established a very firm imprint as the final results showed in terms of finding himself and finding his opponent.
And when we used to look at political cycles both off year and on presidential cycle times there was a relatively short window with limited amount of inventory that was available for an advertiser in the political space to buy.
I think 2012 changed all of that and I think that the whole political year is now open in terms of advertising.
And there's going to be a whole lot more money coming forward because everybody in that endeavor knows that they've got to get on the air and they'll get establish things early.
So I think it's enormously bullish for broadcasters and enormously bullish for Gray Television in all of our years.
Great.
And just in terms of pricing for super PACs versus candidates could you talk about what you've learned -- how that's different and what you've learned that can help you going forward about how to adjust your rates? Super PACs we can charge them anything we want to.
We charge them whatever the maximum rate at our stations are for that particular time slot.
And most of the candidate also pay a fairly high rate because they want to guarantee time slots and we normally keep those guaranteed time slots.
We don't discount them rarely ever because most of our news is strong anyways.
So I think our managers did a great job of managing the rates over the years especially and I think we'll continue to do that.
But we're very conscious that rates are -- that we've got strong stations they're in demand in political years and we want to make sure we get the absolute top dollar we can for our product.
But were the rates that you charge the super PAC advertisers like in terms of a percentage 10% more than what you've charge the actual candidate advertisers? I don't think anybody in companies figured that out.
Like I said we charge the super PAC whatever we feel is the top rate we can get in a time period they want to be.
And like I said the candidates -- if they want guarantee they're paying the same thing also.
So the only time -- and most candidates won't guarantee time slots.
They want to be in our 5:00 6:00 news or 11:00 news or whatever in our special program and during the day if they got some show.
They really -- and Wheel and Jeopardy actually get some pretty good ad money.
So I don't think there's that much difference in what the super PACs are paying than what anybody else.
And one thing the super PACs a lot of times do.
They come in at the last minute and want to spend money.
And we probably like any business we probably charge them more at that point if they want to get on-air at the last minute.
But in general look we want to please all our customers and we want to make sure we're doing the right thing.
And it's really the same -- this boils down to supply and demand.
There's a tremendous demand for those time slots in our news and in these markets.
A typical #1 station in our markets will get 2/3 of the TV ad spending in that market.
So we're very conscious of watching our rates watching our -- keeping our inventory so we can -- have inventory available when these guys want it.
It's a very meticulous process and our GMs over the years have done an excellent job.
I think that's why we've been the #1 group in the country in the percentage of political advertisers since -- really since the '90s.
[Operator Instructions] And at this time we have no further questions in the queue and I'll turn it back over to our presenters for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks everybody for joining us.
As you all know you can catch us anytime on the phone.
We look forward to talking to you at the end of our second quarter and thanks everybody for your support.
Good bye.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Gray Television Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's teleconference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Hilton Howell President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
And thank all of you for joining us for lunch this afternoon and welcome to our Q2 presentation for Gray Television.
As is usual I will be making a few brief comments followed by Jim Ryan our Senior Vice President and our Chief Financial Officer; and then by Kevin Latek our Senior Vice President for Business Affairs.
As usual we will take questions at the conclusion of our comments.
Overall we are very pleased with our operating results for the second quarter of 2013.
Our revenue excluding political remains strong and our expenses remained in check.
Our total net revenue decreased $10.4 million or 11% to $84.3 million for the second quarter of 2013 compared to the second quarter of 2012.
As all of you know comparisons between odd number and even number of years are very challenging due to the highly cyclical nature of political advertising revenues of which Gray receives more than its fair share.
Overall Gray Television had another excellent quarter.
Our total net revenue of $84.3 million is the highest level in our company's history with the sole exception of the politically fueled second quarter of 2012.
We previously hit a high watermark for the second quarter in 2011 when we reported $76.2 million in revenue.
In other words this quarter's revenue is an impressive 10.6% higher than our previous nonpolitical record set in the second quarter of 2011.
It's important to appreciate that we generated 10.6% higher revenue with essentially the same stations and markets that we owned in the second quarter of 2011.
Our core business remains strong and continued to grow in the second quarter.
Local and national advertising revenue and retransmission consent revenue increased due to increased spending by our advertisers in a slowly improving economic environment.
Fully 8 of our 11 core advertiser categories were up year-over-year and 3 categories were up by double-digit percentages.
Two categories were essentially flat while only 1 category decreased meaningfully from last year.
Retransmission consent revenue increased again primarily due to increased subscriber counts and rates.
Turning to noncore revenue.
Everyone on this call and everyone who follows our industry understands that political advertising revenue is highly cyclical and most of you know that Gray earns a relatively higher percentage of political revenue than most if not all of their publicly traded television groups.
Moreover last year's saw a record amount of candidate and issue advertising placed much earlier than before in the presidential and other campaigns.
In contrast we see very few campaigns occurring this year in our markets and political revenue has largely evaporated as a result.
All of this makes year-over-year comparisons very difficult for a company like Gray with strong stations in key markets.
In particular political revenue for the second quarter of 2013 decreased $11.6 million from the same period of last year.
The lack of this political revenue largely explains the decrease of $10.4 million in total revenue between second quarter last year and the second quarter this year.
Let me turn briefly from revenue to cash flow.
For the second quarter of 2013 we reported $32.3 million in broadcast cash flow and $28.3 million in broadcast cash flow less corporate expenses.
This morning's earnings release explained that again due primarily to the absence of political revenue.
The second quarter's results represent a decrease from the cash flow reported in the second quarter last year.
What I think is equally if not more important is the comparison of the second quarter 2013's cash flow to the corresponding period in the last off-cycle year.
Our broadcasting cash flow this quarter represented a healthy 21% increase over broadcast cash flow in the second quarter of 2011.
Even better broadcast cash flow less corporate expenses increased an impressive 22% over the same quarter of 2011.
My final note on finances concerns our earnings.
This morning we reported earnings per share of $0.09 per share during the second quarter.
These results represent a tremendous improvement over our last odd-year second quarter earnings when we reported just $0.01 in per share earnings.
This achievement is even more impressive when you consider that we increased earning per share from $0.01 to $0.09 with essentially the same stations in the exact same markets that we had in the second quarter of 2011.
We are very pleased with our performance in this off-cycle second quarter.
In other news as all of you know in late June Bob Prather our long-serving President resigned.
Our board accepted his resignation and appointed me as President.
Shortly thereafter we announced a new management structure that we believe will enable us to continue to grow Gray Television in efficient and prudent ways.
I'd like to personally thank Bob for his years of service to Gray Television and to wish him absolutely the best in his future endeavors.
I'm also very pleased to report that on August 2 we announced that we had entered into several agreements that will result in our first ever shared services agreement.
In particular Gray agreed to purchase the tangible assets of ABC affiliate KJCT in Grand Junction Colorado from the News-Press &amp; Gazette Company.
The newly formed company called Excalibur Broadcasting which is owned by former regional Vice President of Gray Television will purchase the FCC license programming agreements and other assets of the station.
The transactions are obviously subject to FCC approval and we anticipate the closing will occur in the fourth quarter this year.
After closings Gray will provide certain services to Excalibur through our local NBC affiliate in Grand Junction KKCO.
Finally I want to highlight that on Tuesday of this week we received the final payment from Young Broadcasting under our now expired management agreement.
The payment totaled $7.1 million.
In accordance with GAAP we will recognize this payment as revenue in the quarter ending September 30 2013.
This brings my formal comments to a close and I'll turn it over to our Chief Financial Officer Jim Ryan.
Jim? Thank you Hilton.
Good day everybody.
Talking about the quarter first again we're happy with quarter revenue.
Local was up 5%; national was up 5%; Internet was down slightly which was a bit of a disappointment to us and it's something we'll be focusing on as the year progresses.
As Hilton already mentioned retransmission was up $1.1 million and 13.5%.
Auto was up 8.5% for the -- in the quarter and it represented about 24% of our airtime buy.
Legal was up 15%; communications up 13%; home improvement 11%; supermarkets nearly 7%; furniture department stores entertainment all up between 4% and 5%.
The only softness we've continued to see and it's been a trend for the last several quarters is in finance and insurance it was down 9%.
Medical was almost flat just down 1% and restaurants were essentially flat.
And as Hilton already mentioned broadcast cash flow -- cash corporate expenses Q2 '13 to Q2 '11 so it's off-year to off-year is up 22%.
On the 6 month numbers again we're pleased with the overall local national core revenue.
It was up 3.5%; local up 3%; national actually in Q2 up a little bit more at 4%.
Again retrans is running at about 13% 14% increase $2.3 million for the first 6 months.
Auto for the first half of the year has been up 10%.
And again the trends that I just discussed for the second quarter are very similar for the 6 month.
Legal supermarkets all up double digits; department stores 7%; furniture and appliance is 5%; home improvement entertainment communications all up lower single digits as well with just finance again continuing to show a negative trend.
Medical also a slight negative trend.
Our guidance in the earnings release again calls for a strong core growth of about 5% to 6% in Q3.
We're up against very tough comps in Q3 going against the $5.1 million of Olympic-related revenue in Q3 last year.
That's going to probably dampen our national a little bit in Q3.
We expect it to be down slightly maybe about 2%.
Again strong continuing growth in retransmission.
All in all a very strong Q3.
And as Hilton mentioned a minute ago we'll be booking the $7.1 million of the final incentive fee payment that came in from Young this week.
Turning to the balance sheet our debt to trailing 8 quarter average cash flow ratio was 5.84 against a 7.75 covenant.
Our first lien ratio was at 3.69.
Really the debt had not changed.
We're still $835 million total debt.
$535 million of the term loans were outstanding and we have $300 million of our unsecured notes outstanding.
Cash at the end of the quarter was at $23.4 million.
Our CapEx for the quarter was $6 million with year-to-date number of about $12.5 million.
Cash taxes for the quarter was just over $400 000 and year in 6 months year-to-date it's just at $500 000.
And as we talked about many times we don't set ourselves to be as being a big cash taxpayer any time and in the near future.
Program payments were $2.8 million for the quarter $5.7 million for the 6 months and that basically tracked the same for program amortization as well.
Reverse comp to various networks was $1.8 million in the quarter and for 6 months it's $3.7 million.
At this point I'll turn it over to Kevin.
Thank you Jim.
Hi my name is Kevin Latek.
This is the first earnings call that I've joined and I promise I'll be brief.
Hilton asked me to highlight a few of our milestones from the second quarter of 2013 and the past several weeks.
As this quarter began we launched KSNB-TV in Lincoln Nebraska.
It's a full power television station.
We're operating as a duopoly with our CBS stations in Lincoln.
KSNB is a brand at Central Nebraska News.
The broadcast news in high definition and we've already secured carriage and essentially all of the homes in the market.
In early June we constructed and began operating WRGX the first NBC affiliate for Dothan market.
This new station is running at duopoly with our existing Dothan CBS station WTVY.
We are proud of our team and Dothan for constructing this new station high definition in less than 4 months and getting it cleared on every major cable and satellite system by the end of July which is truly a record time.
June also brought a number of wildfires to Colorado where as you know we have stations in both Colorado Springs and Grand Junction.
Colorado Springs our CBS affiliate KKTV worked tirelessly around the clock.
They were on the air continuously for 100 hours to cover the Black Forest Fire.
This fire sadly killed 2 people and destroyed even more homes than last year's Waldo Canyon Fire which at the time was the most destructive wildfire in Colorado's history.
On the other side of the state our NBC affiliate KKCO in Grand Junction had its hands full covering numerous simultaneous wildfires on the western slopes of Colorado.
We're very proud of the superb work that our dedicated reporters videographers producers and others demonstrate in Colorado and all of our markets when the communities most need them.
And finally our team in Lincoln Nebraska which literally just finished launching -- constructing and launching KSNB is now finishing up an effort to construct and launch another new station which is KNPL in the market of North Platte in the western side of Nebraska.
KNPL will be the first CBS affiliate for this market.
For decades viewers in this underserved market have been able to receive our programming out of Lincoln and Grand Island but by early September our news station KNPL will launch as a standalone operation with its own local news weather and sales force and this will allow us to create statewide news and information network.
These are all opportunities that we have discovered over the last few months and worked very hard to launch.
We thought they were worthy of mentioning here on this phone call.
So with that I'll turn the discussion back to Hilton.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you Kevin and Jim both.
And at this time operator would like to open up the call for any questions anyone may have.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Aaron Watts with the DB.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for me.
I guess first just to clarify Jim on your outlook for the third quarter your local up 5% to 6% x political and national up around 2%.
That is despite the lost Olympic revenue correct that's baked in there? That's correct that's baked in and actually national we expect to be down slightly because of the tough comps created by the Olympic revenue from last Q3.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then secondly can you just remind us the near-term landscape in terms of your affiliation renewals? And then on the other side of the coin any large MSOs or satellite distributors that you have coming up for new subscriber deals? Yes let me take the MVPD first.
We have 1 million subscribers coming up at the end of October for repricing and an additional 1 million subscribers coming up at the end -- in December of '13 at the end of this year as well for renewal and repricing.
And then at the end of next year at the end of 2014 we have approximately 4.5 million subscribers that will also be on -- at renewal and up for repricing as well.
As far as affiliations go we did our deal with NBC last year.
Our ABC affiliations are up at the end of this year which will work well with the 2 million subs we get to reprice by the end of this year.
And then our CBS affiliations are up at the end of '14 which will work nicely with the repricing of as I said about 4.5 million subs at the end of '14 Research Division</strong> Great and Jim your total subscriber number right now? It's about $6.5 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then last one I had just maybe more big picture for Hilton just as you've seen some of the big transactions that have taken place consolidation plays in this space I know you've picked up a couple of stations here and there but have you -- as you see those larger transactions happen Gray hasn't been a participant.
How do you think about Gray a year from now 2 years from now? Do you feel like Gray will participate on a larger scale in consolidation as a buyer potentially seller? Just curious of your thoughts on your strategic future.
Sure Aaron I'm delighted to answer that question.
I think that Gray Television has really a vital and integral role to play in the consolidation of this industry.
As you saw we really have the first opportunity that we have had as a company through the foundation of Excalibur and the acquisition with the station in Grand Junction to really expand our duopoly footprint.
As you could tell also from Kevin's comments we expanded a lot from de novo stations that we have opened in our markets.
I think that there is a great deal of opportunity for us to pick off stations that fit our profile.
I think there's been a lot of players and certainly a lot of press discussion about scale.
Certainly I understand that from everyone's perspective but everybody sort of talks at their own book.
The way I look at scale in this business is very simple.
I mean it's scale within our markets and Gray I think over the last 20 years has built a remarkable portfolio of stations with or without duopolies.
We have a dominant share in every market that we play in.
And consequently in any negotiation with any MVPD with anyone we're going to be in a very very strong position.
So scale is something that I think is critical but everyone sort of looks at it from a different standpoint.
I will say in terms of acquisitions we have looked at things and in all of the earnings calls since I have participated in the mantra from us is that the company was in a delevering mode.
And we still are.
But there are certain stations and there are certain groups that are perfect fits with the Gray Television portfolio.
And we will make every effort we can in a reasonable and prudent fashion and in a fiscally sound fashion to add those types of stations what we think of as Gray TV-type stations to the portfolio of this company.
I also think quite candidly there's a lot of family-owned businesses and family-owned television stations that are looking for someone that shares our corporate culture.
But that's similar to theirs with regard to our commitment to local news coverage with regard to our commitment to our communities with regard to our commitment to what we're doing in terms of creating really valuable content that goes in those markets.
And so I think that Gray as a company has a long road ahead of it in terms of being able to add those type stations to our portfolio.
Now I will say our company you ask about potential sales really there's been tremendous amount of speculations about acquisitions us being sold everything else.
First I want to say the company is simply not for sale.
But let it be known that I'm certainly aware that a lot of people would love to buy us.
And I am not and would not say absolutely never but where we stand today we have a long road ahead where we can grow and expand and increase the shareholder value of all of our shareholders.
And that is what our duty is that's what our fiduciary duty and that is what we plan to do.
I do think that you're going to see us.
We have nothing we're working on there's no contracts but if you get around the business much I think it's fair to say that we have been in contact with every principle with every group of almost every size in one level or another.
And there are a wide variety of different permutations that we're looking at.
And who knows what the future's going to be.
Our plans are to stay independent but that doesn't necessarily preclude almost anything because there's a large number of ways to structure transactions to make sure that we enhance the shareholder value of the Gray Television shareholders.
Does that answer your question Aaron? We'll move next to the site of Marci Ryvicker with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to dig into a little bit on core trends.
Curious as to how the months trended in the second quarter and how they're trending in the third quarter specifically September just as we heard from a small market billboard operator who said that September's soft from a couple of movement of some national contracts.
I know you're comping against the Olympics but anything you talk about there.
And then the second question is have retransmission consent negotiations gotten tougher over the last couple of months and do you think that Time Warner Cable-CBS dispute is going to wane at all when you go up to negotiate? Marci I'll take the trend question first.
Overall Q2 was a little bit mixed.
April and May where April was about 4.5% up.
This is x political not -- let's make it clear it's x political.
May we actually had a strong May up about 6.5%.
June came in at about 5% but actually it would be fair to say June actually slowed up on us as we got into June which is -- was a little bit of a surprise to us.
What we saw there was auto being very strong in the first part of the quarter and in June it tapered off to a mid-single digit up.
Looking ahead through the third quarter obviously we've got really tough comps in August because of Olympics.
September is right now pacing slightly down to about flat.
It's a little early to tell but we think all in all local will do well in September.
Again it's a little -- the actual amount in that we've already got booked for September is actually only about 60%.
So it's -- we've got ways to go yet.
It seems to be tracking okay though.
Auto though does at least for us look a little bit slower definitely slower in Q3 than it has been the first 2 quarters of the year.
Marci let me just stress just a little bit and then Kevin I'd like for you to follow up behind me as well because as some of you guys may or may not know Kevin in his private practice led our retransmission negotiations on behalf of Gray a couple of years ago.
But let me just say with regard to the CBS-Time Warner controversy as it stands today we're the largest CBS affiliate and we very much stand behind CBS in its effort to get a fair payment stream for the quality programming that they put out.
Are those negotiations going to be tougher in the future? I think the headlines clearly indicate that that's going to be the case.
To date Gray has never had to take at least to my memory any of our stations off the air to reach any sort of agreement with any of our cable operators.
And I hope that that stays true in the future.
But I think that negotiations may be tough in the future and I think we're going to have to be steeled and prepared for them and because I think everyone has to -- the viewing audience that we bring to bear in each of those markets is enormous.
And it's tremendously large.
And our company needs to receive payment for it as do our network partners.
And so we want to stand lockstep with CBS in their negotiations.
Clearly I'd be delighted to be the beneficiary of anything that Les Moonves and his CBS team do because they're really the best in the business in a lot of ways.
And -- but our company is prepared because I don't think any of our cable operators can simply do on a local basis without our television stations.
I don't think there's a chance of that happening.
Kevin do you want a follow up from there? I think Hilton hit all the high points here.
The Time Warner dispute is with CBS is almost a repeat of what we seemed to see a lot.
I think CBS had an interesting fact in one of its releases that this is the first time in history CBS has been dropped from any cable system while Time Warner has dropped more than 50 channels in the last 5 years.
So I think the negotiations have always been tough with certain operators.
I don't think they're going to get any easier as broadcasters continue to seek fair compensation for the program that we're delivering eyeballs that we're bringing to the table.
For Gray in particular going back to Hilton's comment earlier regarding scale.
We have over the last 20 years consciously built a company with the strongest brands in its market.
And that we think helps us with our negotiations with all vendors and employees and talent.
In terms of retrans while we may not have a coverage at 30% of the country in any local market it would be extremely difficult to operate a MVPD without diluting newscast or without the best programming the leading weathermen et cetera.
That's the way that we have focused on scale.
That's the business that Gray has built.
And so we're very -- I was -- I enjoy doing the retrans for Gray.
Before I came here I'm sure that our next conversations are not going to be a walk in the park but I suspect that Gray in our good relationships with the MVPDs will result in improved retrans contracts without the public rhetoric that sometimes has to accompany these negotiations.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just have one follow-up.
Do you anticipate any change in regulations around retransmission consent? And what are your views there? No short answer.
We'll move next to the side of Davis Hebert with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Back to your comment on leverage I just wanted to get a sense for if anything has changed as far as your target.
I know Bob has had historically talked about you guys would get below 5x and then sort of look at shareholder returns or -- and/or M&amp;A.
Is that -- has that notion changed at all? No the notion and the goal has not changed Davis but I will say that there are -- our industry has changed in the last 12 months.
And so we have had targets out there that we were planning to hit but things are moving very very quickly in the broadcast space.
And I think it would be inappropriate for us not to pay attention to that change.
Acquisitions that we make for instance Grand Junction that is clearly going to be a deleveraging acquisition for us across the board as you look at it.
Everything that we have done in terms of the de novo stations that Kevin referenced and then actually 3 or 4 more new stations that we haven't talked about that much were immediately accretive to our cash flow.
And in fact in some of our meetings with investment bankers around some of you may have been on the phone right now a statistic that I did not know our company post-refinancing in October brings a larger percentage that gets cash flow to the bottom line than any other publicly traded comparable that people have been able to track.
What I think that that means as -- assuming the economy remains stable and improving that we will be able to delever in a continually aggressive way while at the same time looking at potential acquisitions that fit us.
I think in terms of acquisitions you need to know that we're not interested in numbers for the sheer sake of numbers.
We're interested in stations that deliver what our stations deliver.
And there's only a handful of those left in the country.
And we're not going to ignore those opportunities but we're going to make sure that those opportunities if we succeed in that transaction are helpful in our effort to get to the goal that Bob had mentioned to you because personally the way I run every business -- and my rules are simple: It's solvency profitability and growth.
And so I very much want to have a solid and comfortable balance sheet.
And I do want to be able to return in time to paying dividends to our shareholders.
But there are certain times in the world when one needs to step out.
And so we are looking aggressively at partners and at deals.
And we will make sure that we do our absolute best to keep that leverage in line in terms of all of those acquisitions or potential ones because I have nothing here to share with you with regard to anything we are looking at.
Is that answer your question at all Davis? LLC Research Division</strong> Absolutely that's very helpful.
And then on the mobile TV front I know with the Time Warner Cable and CBS negotiations that Aereo has been sort of brought to the forefront.
Maybe or maybe not a point of leverage but whether Aereo is legal or not is another conversation but do you feel like the presence of Aereo has resulted in a sense of urgency around the mobile TV effort for the industry? And where does Gray stand in that? Let me say that and then I'd like both Jim and Kevin to join in as they see fit.
I certainly hope so.
My standpoint is that our industry needs to get itself moving on mobile television.
And I don't think there needs to be any interfraternity sort of fights about this because mobile is the way the world -- it isn't moving.
It's there.
And so my standpoint is if we're not there now then that's a problem.
And so we need to move.
And if Aereo is an impetus to our industry broadly to move towards that then I applaud it because Gray has been I think almost unique among its market size companies as a true pioneer.
In many instances this is because of Jim Ocon who is the Head of our technology who has pushed so hard because we've been out there on every front.
As you know we had the announcement about SyncBack and what was going on there earlier in this year.
But we have looked at every different thing and tried to do really progressive things and forward-thinking things.
And so we're there with regard to mobile.
And if Aereo is an impetus for everyone else then that's something good that comes out of Aereo despite its illegality.
Kevin or Jim do you have anything to add? I'll just address the context you may know Gray Television put 4 stations up in the mobile DTV platform a number of years ago.
We -- 2 CBS 2 NBC.
It was literally a test.
We constructed and spent a couple of million dollars constructing mobile DTV platforms at these stations smaller markets to help the networks help our partners help other broadcasters and ourself figure out how does it work and how well does it work and what do we need to improve.
And Gray has been -- Gray was not part of the Pearl Group.
It's not we participate in some of the mobile 500 initiatives but we did not sign up without a technical standard and we have experimented with this now for a number of years.
And I think the -- Bob's original vision was we'll just step up to the plate spend the money get our station get some stations up and the rest of the broadcast industry will meet us at the altar.
And it didn't entirely work out that way for a couple of reasons.
What we have sort of shifting our focus now to SyncBack.
SyncBack as you probably know is an Internet delivery protocol so you can receive a TV station on mobile devices iPads tablets mobile phones.
It's geocoded so that you see only the stations within the market.
And it's initially authenticated so the station only streams the content that it has the rights to stream.
We were approached by some networks about this a lot of broadcasters were talking about this a little while ago and even some syndicators have asked about it.
So earlier this year we did -- we signed up 2 of our markets for an internal test.
The SyncBack technology worked extremely well.
We rolled it out to a couple more stations it worked just as well there.
So we then pulled all of our stations and asked if anyone else would like to rollout with the SyncBack.
And actually every one of our GMs raised their hand and said yes and some called and say how can I get to the front of the list.
So we have rolled out SyncBack now with all of our stations and technologies there.
We are currently streaming in a closed environment.
In the next couple of weeks we will be able to sort of lift the veil on that and launch all those stations commercially.
At that point we will be streaming to the viewers in the local markets only.
I would say our local content a fair amount of syndicated content and at this point none of the network content.
I'm hopeful that we will see that very soon.
Obviously we need to be sure that network content is behind the TV everywhere wall so we're not giving our content away for free.
So those discussions are now in the works.
You probably know Nielsen is rating the SyncBack viewership so I think all the pieces are here.
And since we announced the day of the CBS affiliate meeting in May that we would be launching all of our stations on SyncBack we've personally gotten a lot of phone calls from other broadcasters who have asked us about our experience and are joining it.
So I think mobile is certainly in everyone's mind.
I think Aereo is part of the impetus.
SyncBack seems to be working well and getting a lot of traction.
And it seems that that's probably going to be a solution in the near term for mobile delivery.
Whether the broadcast mobile platform works or not is something we're still very interested in and we're still committed to seeing through to the end but at this point SyncBack seem to kind of have the lead in as a solution for broadcasters.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question from Barry Lucas with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> It's just kind of a nuts-and-bolts question for Jim.
It looks like you're pretty much over-delivered on the expense comp in 2Q but fairly sizable ramp in Q3.
And just wondering Jim how much of that is -- might be attributable to the launch of the new stations and/or the JSA agreement.
The JSA really we wouldn't expect anything or any significant activity there in Q3.
That will be a Q4 event.
Those additional stations we've been building out both in Nebraska and the North Platte that's part of the ramp-up as people come online to support those operations in Q3.
That's part of the -- it's part of the uptick a little bit.
And in Dothan as well where we have affiliated new NBC in Dothan.
Inc.</strong> And if those stations weren't in the mix any sense on what the the core...
I don't have an exact number on that.
Those additional channels and stations aren't taking a huge amount of people.
North Platte's probably the most aggressive one and even there we're talking a staff of probably under 20 people maybe closer to a dozen someplace in there.
So out of the up 5 6 in the guidance I think there's a percent or 2 in that and then the rest is just kind of core.
Inc.</strong> One other thing maybe if Hilton wants to polish up the crystal ball and look out towards 2014 political you did a great job in '12 no doubt about that and over-delivered there.
How do you see '14 shaping up as a nonpresidential year? Hilton if I could jump in just ahead of you for a second just to be clear make it easy then you could kind of frame it a little bit but '14 obviously is not a presidential year Barry like you said.
By my last count we've got 15 senate seats open in '14.
Obviously it will be house seats also '14 governorships.
And some of the Senate seats and governors are going to be open seats.
So we would expect them to be somewhat contested and to put it again give a little bit of historical perspective 2010 would have been the last off-year nonpresidential and we came in at $57.6 million.
So Hilton if you -- whatever your thoughts are for '14.
Barry let me -- I think there's a number of lessons that we can take out of the last presidential election.
As sort of common investors in the broadcast business and whatever political party you may be affiliate of President Obama established a precedent that I think is stunning.
Brilliantly successful and hugely in the benefit of television station operators especially those operators like Gray Television who deliver dominant news in a dominant position in the DMAs of their choice or of their service.
What we saw was presidential money coming in from the Obama campaign in May.
That ran consistently all through the summer right up until the general election.
I think that there was a lot of speculation that the Romney campaign was going to deliver a knockout blow in the last 6 weeks and the truth of it is that's not -- it doesn't work that way any longer.
Early voting starts much earlier than it ever has before and market after market and people's minds can be quickly identified.
And so I think going forward I think 2 things are happening or going to happen all in the benefit of our industry.
First I think the window is going to expand dramatically for political advertising in 2014.
And the political parties -- and they have the ability to raise that money.
And so I think it's going to be there.
I think that you have a highly partisan environment right now where both parties are going to be battling to either keep or take the Senate.
The entire House of Representatives is going to be up.
Jim gave an excellent analysis of the number of Senate seats all the house seats obviously and the governorships that are open in our states of business which is hugely beneficial to us.
And so I think it's going to be a fantastic political year.
I really do.
I hope that answers your question.
If you want to follow up on that I'll be happy to.
We'll take a follow-up from Davis Hebert with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask a quick question on any sort of refinancing opportunity you might have given the strength of the bank market right now.
When we refinanced last October the term loans came with a soft call at 101 for the first 12 months.
So obviously that will be coming off in October.
I think that's something that obviously when we get to October the call is off.
And if the leveraged loan market is still very strong it would probably be something we would look at it so it's all obviously going to be rate dependent when we get a few months down the road.
[Operator Instructions] And I'm showing that we have no further questions at this time.
All right well I just want to take a moment to thank everyone for your attendance this afternoon sharing your lunch with us.
I really sincerely appreciate your support of Gray Television and the support of our shareholders.
We look at the future as exceptionally bright for this company and look forward to it with great anticipation.
Thank you and we'll talk to you next quarter.
This concludes our conference.
You may disconnect at any time.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day and welcome to the Gray Television's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Hilton Howell President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you so much Aaron and good morning and welcome everyone.
As usual I will be making a few opening remarks followed by Jim Ryan our Senior Vice President and our Chief Financial Officer.
And then he will be followed by Kevin Latek our Senior Vice President of Business Affairs.
And then also as usual we'll be taking questions at the conclusion of our comments.
It has been a busy and very productive quarter.
Since our last earnings call we completed and fully implemented our new management structure throughout the company.
We designed and launched a new logo in corporate identity that is designed to focus on the Gray win as a brand for our broader company to add to the local brand in the communities as is appropriate for 21st century company looking forward to its future as a television digital and mobile media provider.
We launched a new corporate website with fully responsive capacities like all of our station websites that is now up and operating.
It has significant investor information and access to download our local mobile applications with RoF-based and android-based.
I encourage you to stop by gray.tv and take a look.
I think you'll be impressed.
We completed our partnership with Excalibur Broadcasting and together with Excalibur we closed on the acquisition of KJCT and Grand Junction Colorado.
With affiliations with ABC CW and the Telemundo Networks.
We sold recently $375 million of add-on bonds to our existing bond structure at 102 yielding 6.98% and paid down our senior bank facility with the proceeds.
This past Monday we announced a definitive agreement to acquire #1 stations in 3 entirely new markets for Gray.
Our acquisition of Yellowstone Television brings us the #1 station in Cheyenne Wyoming KJWN affiliate with the CBS and the CW Networks and the #1 station in Casper Wyoming associated with the NBC Network.
Our new Casper station also has the NBC in Cheyenne and we will be able to bring both stations together and significantly augment their sales in particularly their digital sales which had previously been absent from those markets.
Also in this transaction we acquired the #1 news station in Laredo Texas.
Our fourth station in that rapidly growing state which brings us the NBC CW and Telemundo affiliations to the Gray Television business family.
Furthermore yesterday we announced together with ABC that Gray would be opening up a first in the market ABC affiliate on our D2 channel.
We're very excited to bring ABC programming to Laredo Texas.
On a conservative basis these acquisitions should add $3.7 million to $4 million in broadcast cash flow over our near-term to our consolidated numbers.
And most importantly all of these transactions were paid for with free cash flow generated this year and will consequently be entirely delevering.
I would like to welcome those new stations and all of the professionals working in each of those stations to the Gray Television family.
Kevin Latek who led our management team visits the last 4 days he can add more color on our opportunities in these new markets that he will share with you during his comments.
From a financial standpoint our core revenue has been very solid.
As has been typical both for the quarter and year-to-year to date our numbers are down because of our political issues.
If you look well lack of political advertising.
Our total net revenue decreased $14.6 million or 14% to $88.3 million for the third quarter of 2013 compared to the comparable quarter of 2012.
For our year-to-date numbers it is a similar solid story.
Total revenue decreased $27.5 million or 10% to $250.7 million for the 9 months ended September 30 2013.
Again this drop is entirely due to political ad elimination.
We have frequently spoken in our prior earnings calls and investment meetings about the importance of political revenue to a news and contents in company like Gray Television and we received a report yesterday from our friends at RBC that I think is worth sharing with all of you.
So bear with me while I go through some numbers.
So often we look at total political revenue and look at our peers in the industry and look at where they come from.
But RBC gave us an analysis where it took look at not only total 2012 political revenue but it looked at it on a per television household basis.
And to give the numbers and have them in the public record this is what we have.
Sinclair reported political revenue of $223 million.
Media General I believe that would be pro forma for the consolidation is $115 million LIN Media $103 million Gray came in at $86 million and Nexstar came in at $46 million.
But when you look at those numbers and look at it on a per television household basis Gray Television came in at $11.80 per TV household.
Our next nearest competitor was LIN Media that came in at $8.29.
Media General came in thereafter at $6.97 Sinclair at $4.98 and Nexstar at $4.36 -- $4.37.
What that shows is on a per television household Gray Television have a 42% advantage over our nearest competitor and securing an airing really important political advertising's during the even-year cycles.
I will say with regard to these numbers that the numbers for Nexstar did not include TV households associated with Newport CCA Citadel or the Stainless acquisitions nor did they include any of the Gray Television acquisitions which have been announced over the last week to 10 days.
But all of the Sinclair figures are pro forma for all the acquisitions including the All Britain acquisition.
I'm glad to be able to share this and I want to thank our friends at RBC for sharing this data with you -- with us because we believe that shows that value of having #1 stations in growing and dynamic markets where we commit to content commit to news commit to carrying the local stories that are so valuable.
In any event that brings my formal comments to a close.
And I'll turn it over to Jim Ryan.
Jim? Thank you Hilton good morning everyone.
As Hilton mentioned total revenues was down because of the natural political cycle.
But we're very pleased in the quarter that our local revenue was up 4%.
Our national was down as expected going against very tough Olympic comps last year if you recall.
We had $4 million of local and national in the Olympics and an additional $1 million of political.
If you adjust for the Olympic effect in 2012 we think our combined local and national after giving effect to the Olympics to last year would be up year-over-year about 6% on core x Olympics.
Internet was up slightly in the quarter.
Our retrans track is expected.
Our Political obviously off-year is only $1.4 million.
Our auto was up about 4.5% representing 26% of our total and has been trending well all year.
Other categories that were up were in legal home improvement communications entertainment furniture restaurant.
The only categories that we had down during the quarter were medical finance supermarkets and department discount stores were down slightly.
Our expenses were up only 3% basically reflecting a routine compensation cost and are increasing reverse comp that we've talked about before.
We are very pleased with the broadcast cash flow for the quarter on a '13 to '11.
So it's an off-year to an off-year comparison we're up 27% in broadcast cash flow and we are very pleased with that.
We also had solid results for our year-to-date 9 months as well.
Local was up about 4% national was even again going against some tough political comps combined local and national for the 9 months is up 3 our auto for the year 9 months to date is up a very healthy 8% and essentially the same categories of the 9 months basis are up and down as in the 3-month numbers.
And again I -- broadcast cash flow basis comparing '13 to the last off-year in '11 on a 9-month basis.
We're up 22% and we're very very pleased with that growth rate.
Starting briefly to guidance for the fourth quarter we see a very solid core revenue growth local up approximately 10 and national up high single-digits around 8%.
Certainty that's reflective of strong fund -- strong fundamentals.
Also keep in mind we had a 40 plus million dollars of political in fourth quarter of last year.
So obviously we would expect healthy growth rates Q4 this year with the displacement of political from last year.
We also will have a significant step up in our retransmission revenue in the fourth quarter up about 28% reflecting in great part our recently renewed contract that renewed on November 1.
Turning to the balance sheet briefly.
Our trailing 8 quarter cash flow as defined in our senior credit facility with $143.5 million which places our total leverage at 5.68 at the end of the quarter against a 7.75 covenant.
Our first lien leverage was at about 3.6 at the end of the quarter.
And as Hilton mentioned if you gave this effect to the bond repayment sorry the bond add-on and the repayment of the term loan our senior leverage would be about 1x on a trailing 8 quarter basis.
CapEx for the quarter was $6 million $18.4 million year-to-date.
We're tracking for our CapEx number in the lower middle 20s for the year as we continue to finish off our local HD at many of our markets.
Cash taxes were less than $100 000 and only about $500 000 for year-to-date.
Programming payments were $2.8 million and $8.5 million year-to-date and that's the amortization numbers are the same.
And as we've talked before our network reverse comp for the quarter was $1.8 million $5.5 million for year-to-date and we're tracking to about $7.6 million for the year.
At this point I'll turn it over to Kevin for his comments.
Thank you Jim and thank you Hilton earlier.
I'm happy to follow Jim's comments especially when he tells us that our cash flow is up 27% over 2011.
So it's a great lead in and I hope that all those footsteps with more good news.
Last night Bob Smith the Senior Vice President for Midwest and West.
Jason I think who's our Senior Vice President for media technology and myself returned from a few days out in Wyoming and Laredo we rollout on Sunday and then spend the next several days visiting on newer stations with Yellowstone.
So I thought I would just spend a quick moment talking about these stations.
As you saw in the press release each of these stations is the highest rank television stations in its markets according to be BIA revenue data and while that was one thing that attracted us to these stations the most attractive feature of these stations was that we felt from what we could -- what we knew of these stations that they had the commitment to local news and community involvement that distinguishes Gray Television.
We believe from what we could tell before we acquired the stations that they were able to exceed in the local markets without the resources that our Gray stations have.
And we figured that a combination of those stations with a Gray workflow Gray resources Gray technology and the other indicators of our company and leaders within our company would allow these stations to really excel.
So just briefly let me tell folks because I have gotten a lot of questions about the transaction.
So this transaction with Yellowstone literally began with a phone call on a Thursday evening and over the next literally several days we were able to start and complete negotiation on an investment in Yellowstone and an acquisition of Yellowstone.
Start and complete our due diligence received board approval and complete the wire.
From the first phone call to the moment that we sent the wire to Yellowstone place about 6 days.
I think that is a great reflection of the new management structure at Gray and our commitment to moving quickly when opportunities present themselves.
With Yellowstone we have acquired as Hilton mentioned the top and then as I mentioned in the press release CBS 2 NBC's and Wyoming and additional NBC in Texas.
We also announced yesterday as Hilton mentioned something we're very excited about which is the addition of ABC to KGNS in Laredo.
That will be yet another new Big 4 affiliation that we'll be adding to a small market.
The Yellowstone stations have done very well as I mentioned before despite not having a large company behind them.
And we give great credit to the wonderful folks at those stations.
These stations all pass high-definition in high-definition programming from the networks but none of these stations have a local HD newscast.
Two of the stations did not have the capability to do local commercials in high-definition and one of the stations could not even put out a viable remote shot during the local newscast.
Now these stations have their own app and their digital presence is negligible.
We view all of these as upsides.
Within Gray we have 2 dozen markets stations that are end-to-end HD.
We're already looking at ways that we can enhance their digital products certainly the news products their sales products and otherwise allow these stations again to really excel.
With the addition of Yellowstone Gray Television now owns and/or operates television stations in 34 markets.
We have the #1 and #2 ranked station in 32 of 34 markets.
We have #1 news stations in 26 markets.
We operate stations in 9 state capitals.
With the Yellow -- addition of the Yellowstone stations and KJCT in Grand Junction which Hilton mentioned those transaction closed by Thursday.
Gray now owns and/or operates TV stations that broadcast a total of 97 channels.
If we do not add an additional channel between now and the launch of ABC in Laredo we will have 98 channels.
And we're very very proud of that.
Gray Television is a company that as we've mentioned many times makes great use of our spectrum in all of our markets from the largest to the smallest.
With the addition of Yellowstone we now cover 6.5% of the country.
That is a segue briefly to 2 points I want to make on the regulatory front.
There's been obviously a lot of concern and discussion about the FCC's efforts to redefine the national ownership cap by changing the UHF discount.
This move while interesting to us we do not believe will have any impact on Gray whether we -- the FCC changes the UHF discount formula or not Gray's coverage is well below the cap.
As I mentioned we're at 6.5% of the U.S.
The cap is at 39%.
We have a long way to go before that becomes an issue.
The other regulatory point I'd like to mention is on spectrum.
Spectrum continues to be an important issue for all broadcasters and we have been following with great interest the efforts of Sinclair and other broadcasters to explore the possibility of changing platforms.
Most recently Gray has weigh in that FFC and frankly a new one I think novel idea that Sinclair has submitted that it had gained traction and further support from broadcasters.
And that is -- that we suggested it and supported the FCC's -- I'm sorry Sinclair's proposal but the FCC at least considered allowing TV stations to make flexible use of their spectrum if they waive their right to reimbursement of the [indiscernible] We're not taking a position on whether Gray would waive reimbursement expenses from a repacking or not but we believe it's worthwhile for the FCC to at least consider this proposal.
And those -- that concludes my remarks today.
Operator we'll open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go to Marci Ryvicker of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Eric for Marcy.
So we've seen you make a nice tuck-in acquisition with Yellowstone and also launching ABC station.
Does that sort of sum up the M&amp;A strategy going forward? A lot of singles and doubles.
Or do you think you can make a more sizable acquisition? Are there any larger groups that interest you? This is Hilton.
I think candidly Eric the answer is yes.
There's nothing that we have that we're ready to talk about.
But we are looking at larger transactions and we're also looking at smaller transactions and tuck-in acquisitions that would -- our markets and would add into our portfolio.
Stations similar to what the Yellowstone stations are there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And also you have quite a bit of your retrans footprint coming up for negotiation over the next year or so.
Does the strategy change or you think you can do bigger deals once you mark your retrans rates up to market? Well I think the answer is yes.
And I actually think I'd like to take a moment to kind of brought in Kevin Latek because we finished without going off the air and got very successful terms with DISH and made that announcement.
We had very little thoughts and we hope that we can follow-up.
We have one more large provider this year and then everything else with our current portfolio comes up at the end of 2014.
And we're hoping that we end at similar productive and positive negotiations so that they get what they need and we get what we need.
And I think that does help us a great deal.
I think regardless of whatever we have we're picking up repricing on over 2 million subscribers in the fourth quarter.
And then everyone else will reprice by the end of next year.
And then we anticipate through 2014 that we're going to have an extremely strong political year.
That will give us a great deal of added cash flow.
One of the things that we're very pleased about is that Gray is today a significant contributor of free cash flow during the political years and in nonpolitical years.
And one of the things that we like about this Yellowstone transaction about the transaction with Grand Junction is that we are able to acquire all of it without tapping any financial resources.
It all came from cash on hand and cash candidly that came into the course of the year.
And so those stations and the assets and the cash flow that they represent are going to be able to allow us to continue to delever and continue to have operations to expand our footprint at the same time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
I just have one more question.
This maybe more for Jim.
How is Q4 core pacing x political? And can you talk to the monthly pacing throughout Q3 and into November? Q4 x political currently is pacing up about 10%.
So we're pleased with the trend there.
And obviously October if you look at it sequentially during the quarter October is up very significantly because of the political displacement.
But November and December are -- they're currently pacing at healthy mid to mid-single or better digits as well.
So the trend for the quarter looks good.
Third quarter trend line was slower first part of the quarter I think September picked up.
And again we're liking the initial trends we're seeing for fourth quarter.
Eric let me follow-up on one other things that I just like to mention with regards to these acquisitions because we kind of glossed over it.
But within the Gray management structure we're really excited about picking up these 2 Telemundo affiliations in Grand Junction and then in Laredo.
Obviously the television viewing population in Laredo is very heavily Hispanic.
And the Telemundo there has a -- we think a tremendous amount of upside that has not been a pushed as well as perhaps it could be.
And we're very excited to be part of that network now because these will be our first 2 stations.
So hopefully that won't be our last.
[Operator Instructions] And it appears there are no further questions at this time.
All right.
Well thank all of you for joining us on our conference call today and please feel free to reach out to us at any time if you have questions.
We'll answer what we can.
I hope that means that we covered a great deal already with you guys and you don't need to have questions to answer we'll have answered.
But if not let us know.
Thank you for attending and thank you so much for your support and interest in our company.
This does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to Gray Television's Fourth Quarter and Year End 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Hilton Howell President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you so much Katie.
Good morning.
Thank you so much for being here for joining us on this conference for your interest in our company and for your interest in our industry.
I will be making a few brief comments and then these comments will be followed by Jim Ryan our Senior Vice President and our Chief Financial Officer; and Kevin Latek our Senior Vice President of Business Affairs.
Following that we will answer any questions that you may have.
In many ways 2013 was a defining year for Gray Television.
We restructured and we focused on management team.
We rebranded our company and launched a new corporate Web site better communicate our story and our culture.
We repositioned our balance sheet and issued 375 million of new senior notes filling up our senior debt capacity to grow the company.
We partnered with Excalibur Broadcasting to look at transactions in our consolidated industry and thereafter returned to growing the company.
In October of this year 2013 with Excalibur we purchased KJCT ABC CW and Telemundo affiliate in Grand Junction Colorado from the News-Press Gazette Company.
Later that month we acquired 99% of the equity in Yellowstone Television with four TV stations in Cheyenne Wyoming Scottsbluff Nebraska Casper Wyoming and Laredo Texas.
In November we announced the pending acquisition of Hoak Media adding 12 market-leading TV stations in six markets.
Concurrently with our Hoak announcement Excalibur announced the acquisition of Prime Cities Broadcasting's Fox stations in Minot-Bismarck North Dakota.
Thereafter we agreed to acquire the CW affiliate from Lockwood Broadcasting in Charleston West Virginia and brought the year to a close with the announcement that we were acquiring KEVN-TV a Fox affiliate in Rapid City South Dakota.
Pro-forma of all acquisitions Gray will operate the leading media news provider in 40 TV markets with 136 program streams and 73 affiliates of the Big Four Networks.
Even more importantly our core operations reported record quarterly and annual results by almost every measure.
For the fourth quarter our revenue hit a record 95.6 million compared to the previous non-political record of 84.7 million set in the fourth quarter of 2011.
For the year our revenue was likewise a record 346.3 million compared to the previous non-political record of 307.1 million in 2011.
Our free cash flow or broadcasting cash flow for the quarter was also a record.
Gray reported 36.8 million in broadcasting cash flow this quarter compared to the previous record quarter of 34.4 million in 2011.
For the year free cash flow was a record 128.2 million compared to the previous non-political record of 109.6 million set in 2011.
All of the acquired or seem to be acquired stations added only 2.4 million to revenue and 1.1 million to broadcast cash flow to these results.
All of the legal and transaction and M&amp;A cost associated with all of these transactions were expensed as incurred during the quarter.
In comparing 2013 to 2012 virtually all components of our revenue except political advertising are up nicely.
Over the year local advertising revenue increased 11.7 million or 6% to 203.1 million.
National advertising increased 1.5 million or 3% to 58.3 million.
Internet advertising revenue increased 0.4 million or 2% to 25.4 million.
Retransmission consent revenue increased 6 million or 18% to $39.8 million.
And as expected political advertising decreased a whopping 83.2 million or 95% to 4.7 million for the year.
2013 was indeed an outstanding year but more importantly it positions us for an extraordinary 2014.
We began the year with new retransmission consent contracts with two significant providers in our market.
And we accomplished this without public noise dark television stations or harsh PR.
We are very proud about how we got these deals closed while meeting our financial objectives.
2014 is also a political year with significant races in both our existing and seem to be acquired markets.
As you know and can infer from the 83.3 million in political ad spend Gray reported in 2012.
Gray TV stations did a disproportionate share of all local political advertising dollars.
Our dominant local news and virtually all of our market make our stations must buy for a successful politician.
Cables won't cut it and most of our other competitors won't either.
Further we fully intend to keep growing Gray Television's portfolio in 2014 with stations that fit our profile in corporate culture.
Finally and its potential impact on broadcasting.
I can only speak for Gray Television and we clearly believe that both JSAs and SSAs can serve the public interest.
But with regard to Gray directly the issue is simply not material.
And the numbers we reported this morning drove the results of exactly one such arrangement and there are only four small wins in the pending acquisitions all of which just recently passed the Department of Justice scrutiny and all of which we believe clearly served the public interest.
With that I will finish my comments and turn the call over to Jim Ryan.
Jim? Thank you Hilton.
Just kind of briefly recap; starting with first quarter again we were pleased core revenue in the quarter local was up 13 national up seven.
All categories except furniture and appliances were up and even furniture and appliances was basically flat it was down less than 1%.
Our expenses came in at expectations and again as Hilton mentioned before comparing to the last off-year we had a strong broadcast cash flow and operating cash flow compared to the last political off-year 2011.
The stations we acquired which would be the three Yellowstone Stations and the KJCT SSA are both in basically for two months in the quarter.
Net revenue combined for those stations are only accounted for about 2.4 million of the total results we reported.
And its operating expenses in the aggregate were about 1.3 million.
So we are very pleased with the cash flow of 1.1 it generated but again as we've talked before those are relatively small markets and they were only in for part of the quarter.
Turning to the whole year again we are very pleased with the results in core revenue with local up six national up three.
Again all categories were up except for medical which was down a little over 1% than restaurant which is essentially flat with about three tenths of a percent decline.
Our broadcast operating expenses for the year were within our expectations only up about 2% year-over-year.
And again it was a record setting broadcast cash flow and operating cash flow numbers when compared to the last off political year.
Turning briefly to our guidance for Q1 we are pleased with the start of the year.
The Winter Olympics for us which generated about 3.8 million which is up from the 3 million of the last Winter Olympics in 2010.
We are pleased with the core local growth.
We are estimating it will be approximately 10%.
National maybe up around 2% beginning an upward growth pattern again with our digital as we talked before '13 was a recouping year and we are looking forward to strong growth as the year progresses there.
And Hilton already mentioned the redo of two large retransmission consent contracts.
So we are obviously going to show very very strong growth in our retrans line this year.
Our operating expenses there is a couple of pieces in there; I think people need to focus on with first of all for the TV.
We did have our ABC affiliations renewal at the beginning of this year.
So we are now paying reverse comp for ABC NBC and Fox.
And a quarter-over-quarter step-up in aggregate reverse comp piece of the network is about 2.2 million of overall expense increase that we are forecasting as well as about 700 000 of non-cash stock compensation.
And frankly our acquisitions the Yellowstone Stations and the SSA and Grand Junction account for about 3.1 million at the quarter's increase in operating expenses.
The corporate line also is showing an increase.
There is non-cash stock compensation of about 1.1 million in our guidance.
In addition we are giving our continuing M&amp;A activity our work with the DOJ first part of this year and moving the pending acquisitions to closing hopefully it has been second quarter.
We have an estimate of about 1 million additional in M&amp;A cost as we proceed to closing the acquisitions.
Turning to the balance sheet briefly at year end it was 837 million of debt.
Our covenant leverage under a senior credit facility which again is calculated on a trailing average eight quarter basis was 5.67 which is exactly where we thought we would be I guess the covenant of 775.
So there is ample covenant room there.
On a trailing 12 month basis our total leverage ratio would have been 7.29.
Cash was 13.5 million.
So in detail our free cash flow numbers CapEx for the quarter was 5.7 million bringing us really 24.1 for the year.
We had no cash taxes in quarter and only 500 000 for the year.
Thinking ahead to '14 I think cash taxes will be a lot like 12 where we had about $1 million cash taxes to various states.
And our current NOL is 225 million for federal purposes so there still be several years down the road before federal tax payer.
Program payments were 2.9 million bringing the total for the year to 11.4.
Reverse comp in fourth quarter for the networks was 2.9 million breaking out total in 2013 and reverse comp to 11.4 -- I'm sorry those were amortization numbers I misspoke.
I'll get you the reverse comp numbers in a minute.
I apologize for my error.
Our total operating cash flow on a trailing eight quarter basis again was 146.95 and that is as allowed under senior credit facility that does pro-forma for the inclusion of Yellowstone and KJCT.
And our trailing 12 months cash flow number was 110.4.
And at this point I will turn the comments over to Kevin.
Thank you Hilton.
Thank you Jim.
Recent press reports indicate that the FCC may soon adopt new rule regarding sales agreements in TV stations in the market.
Well it's not entirely clear what the FCC will do.
The reports indicate that the FCC will not prohibit such JSAs simply imposed some allocations on the amount of joint ad sales between the station.
In our pending transactions with Hoak Media Prime Cities Dish TV there are existing JSAs in place that will create two more.
We propose to continue to JSAs and expand the JSAs because we believe that those rankings that comes from the local community that deserves.
We hope that the FCC in reviewing our applications for the pending acquisitions will treat Gray like any other companies using JSAs in many TV markets.
It gives us adequate opportunity to comply with whatever new rule the FCC adopts.
We do not see the FCC rule change is materially impacting our approval at the FCC or our timing on the closing of the Hoak and other transactions.
We have been working with the FCC to obtain necessary approval.
We will continue to do so.
As Hilton mentioned we did clear the Department of Justice last week.
We've also cleared the FCC public comment period without any objection.
But this time I can't give you a target based approval of the transaction.
We do believe we are close.
Once a new FCC rule is adopted we will review our existing agreements determine how best to ensure that we are in compliance to span all those changes to our agreement.
They also include seeking away with the FCC.
We are prepared to do that compliance.
The bottom line is that the FCC rule change it requires some actions on our part.
Do not believe that we are seeing an important process; however we will have a major impact on our existing operations or pending acquisitions hopefully.
I'll turn the call back to Hilton.
We have connection issue with Hilton.
Operator? I'm still here.
So that concludes my remark.
I'll turn it back to Hilton at this time.
Operator we will open the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions) We will take our first question from Marci Ryvicker with Wells Fargo.
Thanks.
I have a couple.
I just want to make sure I understand with Hoak all you need is FCC approval final approval.
Is that all you need to get that done? Yes that's correct.
Okay.
And then Kevin you talked about sort of proving that the JSAs are necessary for the local communities.
What data can you provide to the FCC that could prove that these stations are necessary? Marci we have one JSA currently.
So we have a very short operating history with JSA.
In that market we did explained to the FCC staff we met with them that we -- they are taking two stations that were big stations and made them better and their programming spend their offerings book for advertisers and has invested considerably in the operations.
And I think in the small markets like Grand Junction which is marked at 185 the JSAs and SSAs make the economics more compelling and give us an incentive to invest further in those markets.
So we can point to what we have done in the past the existing Hoak JSAs and the two kind of create give some more expectations for both investing and improving output from the advertiser's standpoint and from a viewer's standpoint.
What percent of revenue or ad revenue do you sell on behalf the JSAs? Under single JSA that we had so far the sidecar that does turn the lead (indiscernible) KJCT and Excalibur also employs the accounting section for KJCT and they sell their own time.
We coordinate everything through shared services agreement through the same building and offices show how the back office functions.
So I'd say Excalibur people are selling Excalibur's time.
Okay.
And then just in general have the M&amp;A discussions in the industry slowed at all given all this regulatory noise around JSA's [methods] (ph)? Marci this is Hilton.
I don't think so.
I think they still continue to suppose all -- I think people are waiting to see kind of what the final rules are on the 31<sup>st</sup> of March.
Okay.
And then Jim I have one question for you.
You talked about some of the M&amp;A expenses and some of the one-time expenses for the Q1 guide.
Was there anything in expenses for the fourth quarter like anything related to the transactions or any one-time items that maybe we should exclude so we could find kind of a core EBITDA? In the corporate line in the fourth quarter there was $1 million at least of M&amp;A expense as well.
And that's it? Yeah.
There was also some in corporate line again some incentive compensation which given the year performance drove up the overall comp numbers a little bit.
And I think that might be somewhat of a one-time only type of event.
I will give you a feel for that magnitude.
Okay.
Well there is lot of questions I have.
So you can come back to me later.
And thank you all so much for answering the questions.
All right.
Thank you Marci.
We will take our next question from Lance Vitanza with CRT Capital Group.
Thanks guys.
It looks like you had a pretty strong quarter on the core revenue growth certainly seem to accelerate from Q3.
And it looks like even a little bit better in Q1.
And I'm wondering what's behind all the strengths there? If there is any particular is it the market is overall improving? Are you guys kind of taking some share? Could you just talk a little bit about that please? I'll comment.
And I'll let Jim and Kevin comment as they see fit.
I think in general we are beginning to see an overall improving economy in a lot of areas.
Also think that our stations are performing quite well.
We just finished last week.
One of our most significant GSO meetings and we have our account executives that are out and filling our stations at a strong pace.
The morale of our company has never been this high as it is today.
I think its better showing in terms of what we are doing on the street everyday because at the end of the day you got to have the product we have it.
And then you have to have people who enthused to sell it we have that too.
So I think it's a combination of things.
Jim and Kevin do you want to add anything to that? One other point I would add to what Hilton said is that through the micro level we have been working on operations across the company.
And one of the recent developments in the last year was the launch of new network affiliate in a number of our markets.
We had more market -- short markets that we are missing affiliation and we invested last year.
We look forward to acquire some dark station build them on HD programming especially affiliations with CBS NBC and those are ramping up now.
So I think from the investments that we've made in the past as Hilton mentioned a lot of small things that add up to and improve morale and by giving our first general sales manager meeting in a decade that was for the last week.
And we are really working on the stuff that we don't issue press releases on that are that do make a difference at the market level.
Okay.
And then one other question if I could which is that if I look at the broadcast cash flow last corporate line it looks like adjusting for maybe some M&amp;A fees it looks like you are flat sort of over 2011 despite a fairly substantial increase in revenue.
So I'm just wondering is that just really a function of increased reversed re-trends or are there other sort of big picture themes that are impacting the margins? The biggest impact over '11 would be the increase in reverse comp.
And actually in '13 we paid total of 7.6 million in reverse comp for the year and it was 2.1 for the quarter.
That's probably the single largest driver on the expense side after as you said the M&amp;A and obviously the acquisitions brought in some additional expenses but also some additional revenues I already talked 1.1 million of additional cash flow that generated in the end once we have them.
Following up on the other question on OTO for corporate again in Q4 it was about $1 million of M&amp;A type expense.
And then there was what I would probably characterize is at $800 000 of what could be -- I think would be fair to consider to be kind of OTO incentive compensation to certain individuals.
We will take our next question from Davis Hebert with Wells Fargo Securities.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Jim I just want to focus in on the 7.29 leverage point I think you gave.
Could you provide  That's a T12.
That's a trailing 12 months.
Yes that was a T12 on our trailing eight quarter which is the covenant we are tested against under our senior facility.
We were at 5.67 against the covenant of 7.75.
Okay.
All right thank you.
And any thoughts about a year end leverage target? I know probably the timing of the close of these acquisitions may factor in.
But is that anything you are willing to provide? I take in general.
And again the timing of the acquisition closing to have some impact although under the covenants through our pro-forma rights for the full period whether it's 12 months or eight quarters depending on whether you are looking to the indenture or looking to the senior credit facility.
But in broad terms I think we are at the end of '14 -- and maybe we are a little conservative but we are back in that 560 range right about where we are today in a trailing eight quarter basis and go 567.
So maybe a little bit higher maybe it's a little bit lower and in political stronger and most likely maybe potentially a little conservative on our political estimates.
In coming November we will know one way or the other.
But if political is a little stronger we will be a little lower as well.
So call it mid five-ish range.
And again timing on things with have some bearing on just how much free cash we can have access to these between now and the end of the year.
Okay that's helpful.
And then on the funding side could you just walk us through what remains left to be funded I guess is a factoring in the sales of Nexstar admission etcetera? Yeah in round numbers it's about 330 million.
That includes all the pending acquisitions.
And that assumes we don't use any existing cash for that.
And that would be after the next year.
The Hoak the primary transaction with Hoak our funding need is approximately 300 million after the Nexstar buys the two stations that they are buying.
Okay that's helpful.
And then last question.
Just curious if you are having any internal discussions or external discussions with your network partners around some of this over-the-top providers.
Verizon is talking increasingly about Dish's recent deal with Disney.
Just curious that if the industry the broadcast industry significantly is talking about how to participate in that? This is Kevin.
It's fair to say that we are engaged with each of the networks pretty regularly on all of these issues over-the-top retransmission quality of programming it's very much in relationship and world is interested in moving forward on mobile over-the-top etcetera as they are.
We are all trying to find common ground.
I don't think Gray has the magic silver bullet or any network does but we are actively trying to find the right balance the right fit makes sense for us to broadcast affiliates.
Okay.
Thanks for all the color.
I appreciate it.
We will take our next question from Avi Steiner with J.P.
Morgan.
Thanks for the question just one quick follow up on leverage and I apologize maybe I missed it.
Can you give me the pro-forma number at the end of '13 as all acquisitions and dispositions were closed.
Do you have that Jim? Yeah.
Under our senior credit facility our pro-forma operating cash flow number was 147 million.
And you have with the pro-forma debt balance would be against that? When you say pro-forma I am only pro-forming for the closed acquisitions.
I am not pro-forming for any pending acquisitions.
Do you have the pending acquisition number because if everything was closed at the end of '13 and again if not I can follow-up afterwards.
Well we just said  I know you gave a 14 number.
I want to make sure.
Yeah.
We said where funding needs to close the pending were about 330 and we had 837 at the end of the year.
So on round numbers that puts us about 1 billion 170 give or take a little.
On pro-forma after closes for that number we haven't discussed in detail what the pro-forma '13 numbers are with the pending.
But I mean I think it's fair to say on a blended basis we are probably on a two-year blended basis of approaching a $500 million revenue company.
And I'll call it again in very very round terms a high hundreds millions to maybe about a 200 million average operating cash flow company on a two-year blended basis.
That is helpful.
And then if I get one more in kind of the bigger picture in nature and I appreciate all the comments around JSAs and SSAs.
Can you guys comment on the FCC rules around joint negotiations with respect to retrans and maybe the proposal that is out on the agenda just around network non-duplication and what that could possibly mean with respect to retrans going forward? Sure.
This is Kevin.
We have experienced a fairly limited experience with joint negotiations.
We have again our first SSA began in the fourth quarter of last year.
And in our agent retrans contracts the major MVPDs require that they get consent from us for any station that is operating pursuing to an SSA.
So it's not optional for us.
Going forward if Excalibur we trend on their own -- we would expect that they would define revenue negotiating retrans.
In fact we don't anticipate negotiating retrans for Excalibur.
We are acquiring stations that have network programming and good local programming.
I think they will stand up in retrans marketplace as well as our stations.
So we don't see any impact on the joint negotiation on us.
And likewise our network non-duplication that's not particularly a concern for us either.
Okay thanks gentlemen.
We will take our next question from Howard Rosencrans with VA.
Yes.
Hi thank you.
In light of what is transpiring with the FCC and obviously we don't know what trend they'll be on the 31<sup>st</sup> or subsequently but how do you feel like it changes particularly in regard to retrans potentially or I guess less of a shared agreement but how do you feel like it impacts the M&amp;A environment going forward or your interest in pursuing it yourselves? Well this is Hilton let me start with that.
If you look at the portfolio that Gray Television currently owns of our TV stations we have historically and then throughout the course of this last year when we returned to M&amp;A are focused on dominant stations number one and number two in the markets.
And those stations stand on their own.
And so with regard to what we have and where we'll be going the rules and regulations have very little impact.
Our acquisition strategy and the whole [don't know] (ph) behind what Gray Television does is to have predominant news station in the markets that it serves.
And so we have never built it around putting the number four number five TV station together and then making them better.
We always look to get the top one.
So a lot of those issues will not slow our M&amp;A efforts because we will continue to look for stations that kind of have that profile that we've had traditionally in our company.
And so that makes us different than most of the other large not all but most of the other broadcast companies that are public.
And so it will not slow us down with regard to M&amp;A because we'll still be looking for stations and station groups that share our corporate DNA and our commitment to our local communities.
And so I don't think it will slow us down but it will do for other companies really I have no idea.
That's how I see it Howard.
Okay.
That's great color.
Thank you for that.
Just to tag on to that is it possible that the environment for the type of top Tier stations if this was to transpire would become sharply more competitive? I actually think it will sort of be to Gray Television's benefit.
And that would be because  We're a natural home for those television stations because we share an operating philosophy.
And I think that the overall economic trends in our industry regardless of what the FCC is doing still compel consolidation in the industry.
And so what's happening is they want to trim their sails based on where the winds are coming and that makes complete sense.
But in terms of where Gray is going our direction has never changed or wavered.
And we are not in the way of the regulations that the FCC is putting out because we have not built our M&amp;A strategy around that philosophy.
And so other people may have to deal and adjust to that.
We won't.
One quickie last up what percentage would you say just ballpark of your pro-forma revenues are in this sort of shared category that's now being attacked and would you say that  On a pro-forma basis because it's really almost inconsequential which we reported this morning but on a pro-forma basis it's substantially less than 5% of revenue.
And the margin associated with that would that be a 100% margin or dramatically different from the margin you get or not? I don't know what the exact margin on that revenue was.
We will have that number in time but we just haven't had -- we are not part of it yet and so I don't really have a pro-forma number for that.
Okay.
Thank you.
I will get back in queue.
Thank you so much.
Okay.
We will take our next question from Jim Goss with Barrington Research.
Thanks.
A few about retrans and reverse comp the reverse comp negotiations to this point have been of what nature? How would you describe it? Were they looking for some percentage of retrans or were they doing more or like -- CBS has indicated where they were determining a value without their signal head and then it's up to you to do the best deal and you do better or worse.
How would you describe it to this point? Jim each -- I'm sorry go ahead Hilton.
Just go ahead Jim.
Jim each -- right now we are paying to ABC NBC and Fox.
We have not had any discussions yet with CBS so we don't know what CBS' approach is.
But of the three we've done it would be fair to say each of them takes a slightly different approach but based on our experience to-date and we have been very consistent about this over many calls.
At the end of the day the math is kind of working out to be a 50/50 split of the gross retrans number.
Okay.
And is there an accounting requirement that you take in retrans as revenue and put the reverse comp in the expense category or should they be sort of contra revenue so that it separates the louder actually [too loud] (ph)? No I think it's pretty much industry standard at least from I've seen the major public company's report everybody is reporting the reverse comp as an expense because the networks are one way or the other characterizing that as a programming fee.
So therefore it is a programming expense.
Okay.
And then to the extent that your reverse comp is fairly smaller at this point and if these patterns go out do the math and figure out about what that number should be can you talk about the case of inclusion you expect for those reverse comp numbers into the press basis? How fast -- is it a two or three-year process shorter or longer or what are you thinking  When you get to reverse comp with a network again I think you are basically at a 50/50 split for all intents and purposes out of the box.
There maybe some variances early on but they're not significant.
Again our ABC agreements have started this year.
As expected NBC is in full force Fox is in full force.
The only agreements we have loved to come up as we've been very clear about many times in the past that most of our CBS are up for renewal at the end of this year.
So we will begin paying reverse comp to CBS in January of '15.
Okay.
And then one last separate question.
As you look at acquisition targets are there markets where the Spanish language stations might have particular appeal? And would you pursue those or would that not be part of the mix? This is Hilton.
Let me address that.
This past year '13 was the first time that Gray expanded into the Telemundo markets and we jumped into proceeds with the acquisition of the Laredo Texas operations.
And so far we've been very pleased with what we've seen.
We are very new to it but I think that it is a dynamic market.
It's clearly a growing market.
And our company is interested in anything that's growing.
We can return value to our shareholders now.
And so we are brand new but we are looking and if we have an opportunity we will certainly be interested.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
We will take our next question from Erin (indiscernible) with Sidoti &amp; Company.
Hi most of the questions have been asked I just kind of have one follow-up for you Jim.
When you gave the local and national core pacing for first quarter does that number is that a same station number from last year does that include the stations that closed in fourth quarter? No it would include the stations that closed in fourth quarter although again because of their size they're not impacting the overall numbers for sharing by any large extent.
As we talked about in the release in the guidance section the first quarter revenue for the acquired stations is only about 3.7 million out of the 91 million to 92 million we were expecting.
So it's not going to move the needle very much at all.
Okay great.
And then just one question for you Kevin last quarter you kind of talked a little bit about the mobile TV update how it's kind of rolling out to all the markets.
Anything any traction there that you've seen in the past few months or kind of where your hopes and expectations for mobile TV rollout is? Thanks that's a fair question.
Unfortunately there is not a lot to report right now.
Global is still -- we all realize our future but at this point our mobile employment has been hampered by the inability to include the network programming and those conversations obviously are pretty far along and each network is taking different approach.
As we get -- I think we have high hopes for mobile audience and mobile business once we add the network content.
It would have to be authenticated as well through the TV everywhere paradigm.
At this point we do not have any network content on our mobile streams (indiscernible) or otherwise.
So we're seeing some traction and we are promoting it.
And we are happy to see some folks watching our local and a lot of our syndicated content on a mobile basis but the network content is really going to provide that adoption.
Okay great.
Thanks.
We will take our next question from Barry Lucas of Gabelli &amp; Company.
Thanks and good morning a couple of little questions and maybe one bigger one.
On the retrans side are there any watch contracts are coming up in '14 that would materially affect '15 or more or less just annualize roughly the  Virtually all the rest of our contracts come at the end of this year.
Jim will follow-up on that.
We renewed two large MVPDs at the end of last year but everything else albeit they are large mid size and small MVPD retrans agreements expired at the end of this year.
And roughly what percentage of your households would that represent? Roughly  Rough numbers is about 4.5 million or so subs.
Okay.
Guidance provides a lot of detail but any color you could offer on categories in particular as you think about the way our inventory is expanding one would hope that those guys are going to have to start putting a little bit more in the way of marketing dollars against I'd say inventory increases? Actually very year-to-date through February I mean auto was up roughly 10%.
So I mean that certainly looks like a healthy number to me and it was -- you know February obviously is probably little stronger than January but I think Olympics was playing -- had something to do with that a little but overall solid so far and the only thing we're seeing some softness in year-to-date would be in the restaurant category and department stores and all supermarkets are not big dollars they are also soft but I suspect especially with the department stores and the restaurant category a lot has to be with the weather.
And people would just agree to go out (indiscernible).
Okay thanks Jim.
And would you care to handicap the political outlook on numbers about 58 million the last non-presidential year of 86 million in '12  We are still -- right on a same station basis and we're still being consistent that we think we should be able to with the number of races and the number of open senate seats we are comfortable that we will beat 2010 number of 58 starting to get up around that record shattering 86 million that had 25 or 30 million of presidential money involved in that.
That might be a bit of -- that would be more challenging for us but we certainly have the capability and capacity.
And we've never ever turned down a political order I don't think.
We will be happy to take everything we can get.
And so we're looking for very strong non-presidential political year for us and we generally try to be little conservative in political as you know the 50% of whatever number we get won't show up until October.
So we are -- our own assumptions maybe end up being a tad conservative but we'd rather be that and overly optimistic and end up disappointed.
Okay.
Last one from me a little bit bigger picture as well I've listened to a lot of discussions about the spectrum auction and participation and your need for spectrum for the major metropolitan areas.
How do you view the auction? What do you think the shape will be? And are you likely to be a participant? Well Gray is not going to be participating in the auction.
If you take a look in our 10-K we have a fabulous category about how fantastically well the company has utilized not only for our shareholders' benefit but for those community benefit our spectrum and our markets.
And so we don't intend to participate in the auction at all.
I know a lot of the demand for spectrum space is in the larger markets.
Of course we don't really play in those markets.
So we can't speak to that.
But with regard to our company we want to keep our spectrum.
Great thanks very much Hilton.
All right.
We will take our next question from Colin Wilson-Murphy with Bowery Investments.
Thank you very much.
My questions have been answered.
We will go next to Matthew Dodson with Jay West LLC.
Yes.
Can you just talk a little bit about national and your local I think in the guide you gave that local is going to be at about 10% on the same-store and national is about roughly about 2%.
Can you talk a little bit about kind of what you are seeing in national and do you expect that to reaccelerate as the year goes on? We would expect it is consistent I think with prior results over last several years.
We would expect lower growth rates out of national for the year.
We think it probably will pickup a little bit although as you get into our fourth quarter when political comes in very very strong.
National tends to be the first thing that gets displaced.
National in first quarter has been a little soft.
Again maybe somewhat weather-related when they tend to be more bigger -- the retail chains and the fast food franchises in which we are definitely seeing some softness in.
So we are not necessarily surprised given the weather conditions the first couple of months of the year.
We think it will pick back up a little bit but certainly expect much stronger growth during the course of the year out of our local than national.
Okay.
And then can you talk on the retrans you gave guide that it will be up 67% Q1-over-Q1? Can you talk a little bit about each? Did you receive all the benefit -- will you receive all the benefit in Q1 from the repricing? And is that 60 plus percent kind of growth how we should think about retrans revenues for the year or can you give us any help there? I think kind of to get the big picture you could take the Q1 number and annualize it and you are going to get in the ballpark of what we expect for the year.
So wherever we repriced at the end of last year on those two big agreements I mean that pricing is uniform throughout this year.
So we obviously in our Q1 we're saying is in ballpark numbers about 16 million.
And you can kind of just roll that forward there is a little bit of variance quarter-to-quarter because of very very small amount of that overall revenue numbers tied to some guaranteed airtime buys.
But those dollars are not large but they tend to be a little lumpy because it's really up to the MVPD the place -- given their own marketing plans for the year.
Got it.
And then could you just talk a little bit so you have 2/3rds of your retrans repricing at the end of this year.
Can you help us at all to think about maybe how grossly underpriced that 2/3rds is? And I'm sure you don't want to  The 2/3rds that we'll reprice at the end of this year were all prices for market at the end of 2011.
So while the market rates certainly have gone up over the last few years it's we're expecting a significant step-up but it is not going to be as dramatic as the two contracts we repriced at the end of 2013.
Both of those contracts were very old.
And we're not part of the 2011 pricing repricing.
So that the step-up on those was much more dramatic than what we would be expecting at the end of this year.
But we do expect significant increases and obviously that significant -- that will significantly advance our retrans revenue number in 50.
Got it.
And then the last question I guess relative to acquisitions if your stock gets cheaper than acquisitions I mean it seems like it's pretty cheap on free cash flow basis but we've had buyback stock as opposed to make acquisitions or do you think it's just better to buy acquisition?  Well this is Hilton.
And I hope we could reverse that with regard to our stock price.
And we intend to do all we can because I do think that the company is very under priced.
And but I do think that we're in a unique window right now where the industry is consolidating.
And I think we have a relatively unique role to play in that process.
And so unless things change more dramatically than we anticipate from a 2014 we'll probably stay on-track.
We will not be purchasing things for the pure sake of purchasing them but we will be looking at sort of the unique value propositions that an individual station or station groups bring to the overall value of Gray Television.
So we're going to be looking and talking and probably won't be doing the dramatic stuff -- in the immediate future.
Got it.
And just the last question you alluded to this to a question earlier but you seem to express that you thought if the FCC rules going into place it might benefit you from an acquisition standpoint.
Would you be willing to give us any more information or expound on that?  Well I wish I could but I don't have any information to share with you.
And really the essence to the point I was making that we'll relatively -- really almost dramatically not affected by what the FCC has done with regard to almost any of our existing station.
And in terms of our M&amp;A strategy; those agreements are not key to what we're attempting to do.
And so I think that's where our advantage comes from.
Got it.
Thank you so much for your time.
(Operator Instructions) We'll go next -- we will take a follow-up from Howard Rosencrans with VA.
Hi Howard.
All of my questions have been addressed.
Thank you so much.
All right.
And at this time there are no additional questions in the queue.
I'd like to turn it back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you so very much operator.
And I want to thank each and every one of you for being on the call this morning.
These are exciting and interesting times for our company and for our industry.
And we're very bullish in 2014 and look forward to talking to you at the end of Q1 to give you our final results.
Thank you and we'll talk soon.
Bye-bye.
That concludes today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Gray Television's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Hilton Howell President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you so much operator.
Good morning.
Welcome to the first quarter 2014 earnings call of Gray Television.
Thank you so much for your interest in our company and your interest in our industry.
As usual I will be making a few brief opening remarks followed by Jim Ryan our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and then by Kevin Latek our Senior Vice President of Business Affairs.
Following the conclusion of these comments we will answer any questions that you might have.
Before we discuss the quarter's results I wanted to note the announcement we made last night that Gray is adding another #1 news station and state capital to its station roster with the acquisition of the NBC affiliate in Helena Montana KTVH.
We're also acquiring the NBC affiliate in the adjacent market of Great Falls Montana KBGF both of which we will be acquiring from Intermountain West Communications Company.
We're also seeking to acquire the CW affiliate for the Helena market KMTF from Rocky Mountain Broadcasting Company subject to a failing station waiver from the FCC.
We're very excited to be entering Montana and I'd like to publicly welcome the management associates and viewers of these stations to the Gray business family.
These news-centered and community-centered stations will fit perfectly with our growing presence in the Great Plains and Rocky Mountain states and will complement our operations in Montana Wyoming North and South Dakota Colorado Nebraska and Kansas.
Turning to the quarter we are very pleased with our results.
Our revenue reached $91.3 million for the quarter compared to $78.2 million in the prior year's comparable quarter a 17% increase.
Local advertising increased $4.6 million or 10% to $51 million.
Retransmission consent revenue increased $6.4 million or 66% to $16.1 million.
National advertising decreased by $100 000 or slightly less than 1% to $13.3 million.
Internet advertising increased by $0.3 million or 6% to $6 million.
And our political advertising increased $2.2 million or $336 million -- or 336% to $2.8 million.
We reported net income of $1.3 million up 46.7% from $870 000 in the first quarter of 2013.
And even more significantly we increased our broadcast cash flow by 25% to $30.6 million compared to $24.5 million last year.
All in all we are very pleased with our acquisitions.
All in all we're extremely pleased with the results of our quarter.
With that I'll bring my prepared comments to a close and turn it over to Jim Ryan.
Thank you Hilton.
I think Hilton covered the highlights from the revenue side.
Again our expenses were under -- a little bit under expectation.
And really the big increases there year-over-year reflect the additional reverse comp with our ABC agreements triggering this year as well as the stations we acquired late last year contributed to $3 million of the expenses in Q1.
Turning to the balance sheet for a moment.
Our trailing 8-quarter average operating cash flow under our credit facility definition was $146.4 million which gave us a trailing 8-quarter leverage ratio of 5.65 which was down slightly from the 5.67 at year end.
Our debt remained unchanged at $837 million between end of quarter and end of last year.
$159 million currently outstanding on our term loan and $675 million outstanding of our senior notes.
Our first lien leverage ratio was at 0.98.
The CapEx for the quarter was $3.8 million and as we said in our fourth quarter call earlier this year we would expect total CapEx this year to be $25 million to $30 million with $30 million reflecting the pending acquisitions that are still awaiting closing.
Cash taxes for the quarter was $31 000.
Our NOL position at the end of the year was $225 million.
Program payments were $3.8 million.
We expect about $14 million of program payments for the year.
Retransmission revenue as Hilton commented earlier was up substantially.
It was $16.1 million in the quarter.
You can see from first quarter as well as our guidance for second quarter that our run rate for retransmission revenue for this year would put us in the $64 million $65 million range for the entire year.
Our reverse comp with our ABC agreements starting this year in addition to the NBC agreements and the FOX agreements was $3.9 million for the quarter which again if you extrapolate would suggest about a $16 million run rate for this year.
And as we've talked many times in the past our CBS agreements will kick in beginning next year and we'll be fully leaded in reverse comp as we start '15.
Briefly on guidance for second quarter.
Our local we're extremely pleased with how it's tracking and trending.
We expect local to be up about 10%.
Our Internet revenue will be increasing as well quarter-over-quarter which we're pleased to see and we expect that to continue to build as the year goes on.
And we've already commented on the retrans being a significant increase this year reflecting the 2 agreements we negotiated at the end of last year.
And then as we've said before our remaining subscriber base for the historical Gray stations will be up at the end of this year.
Our national in Q1 was a little weak.
We expect that that will continue a little bit into Q2 as well be basically flattish year-over-year but we're very very pleased with the strong local growth we're seeing.
At this point Hilton I'll turn it back to you.
All right.
Thank you very much Jim.
Kevin do you have any comments? Oh just a couple of items.
And I'll also be brief.
Gray Television has begun 2014 by continuing the efforts initiated last year to grow our portfolio of winning television stations in ways that increase our scale in local regions and local markets.
As you've seen from our press releases and this morning's earnings release we have closed on all previously announced acquisitions other than Hoak Media and we signed one new deal.
In particular in February we created a legal duopoly in Charleston-Huntington West Virginia between WSAZ our NBC affiliate; and WQCW low power CW.
On May 1 we closed on our acquisition of our first [indiscernible] FOX station KEVN in Rapid City South Dakota.
We also began operating KNDX a FOX affiliate in Minot-Bismarck which is a market immediately to the north of Rapid City.
We also entered into an agreement to purchase the low power stations there and we expect to close that acquisition in the second or third quarter.
Yesterday we announced as Hilton mentioned at the top of the call an agreement to purchase 2 NBC affiliates and a CW affiliate in Montana.
KTVH as you know is the state capital of Helena and is the flagship of this small group.
In fact upon the consummation of all pending transactions we'll be proud to own the #1 television station in 28 of 42 markets and #1 or #2 television station in 38 of those 42 markets.
The Hoak Media transaction is a top focus of our management team.
In the first quarter the FCC public comment period closed without any objection to the transaction.
In early March the DOJ's Antitrust Division closed its investigation.
In late March the SEC granted Gray's applications to acquire Hoak stations.
And in April the FCC granted Nexstar's applications to acquire Hoak stations in Panama City and Grand Junction that Gray spun off as part of our agreement with Hoak Media.
The SEC however has not yet acted upon the remaining 4 applications.
One pending application proposes that Mission Broadcasting acquire a station that would continue operating under a 1994 LMA that was grandfathered back in 1999.
The other 3 pending applications seek consent for Excalibur Broadcasting to acquire stations that would continue or would start a new shared services agreement.
None of these applications proposed to start attributable joint sales agreements and none propose a loan guarantee or put call option with Gray or Nexstar.
The FCC has repeatedly required the parties to amend their applications and supply documents and information and the parties have complied in all respects.
Nevertheless no one can predict when the FCC will act on these applications or any other applications that also seem to be stuck at the FCC.
Under the various purchase agreements the closings are conditioned on grant of all applications.
The parties therefore continue to prosecute the remaining applications at the FCC and are hopeful that the FCC will allow this relatively small transaction to proceed in the near term.
Our highest priority is and will remain working to resolve the impasse and allow a closing as soon as possible.
In the legislative and regulatory front the chief developments affecting the TV broadcast industry have been widely reported not just in the trade press but in the general press in recent months.
And therefore we'll not take your time detailing those developments but it's important to note that at Gray we do not foresee any impact on our business from the FCC's recent actions.
The FCC decision banning joint sales agreements and banning joint negotiation retransmission consent simply does not affect us.
Gray currently has a single shared services agreement in Grand Junction Colorado which is DMA #184.
Under the SSA that Gray and Excalibur Broadcasting negotiated actually last summer Excalibur stations are sold by Gray -- by Excalibur employees not by Gray.
The Gray stations are sold by Gray employees not by Excalibur.
Excalibur retained its retransmission consent rights in that contract and in fact has its own retransmission consent agreements with cable operators.
Therefore the new FCC rules do not affect our single SSA operation in Grand Junction.
The Hoak transaction would create additional shared services arrangements for Gray in Lincoln Nebraska; Fargo North Dakota; Monroe Louisiana; Minot-Bismarck North Dakota.
We do not believe that any of these arrangements need to be modified to comply with the FCC's new rules however.
The FCC's JSA and retrans orders simply will have no effect on Gray's results.
The FCC has proposed to require the filing of shared services agreements and has asked many questions about how they work what they cover and whether they serve local communities.
The FCC has not proposed to ban shared services agreements.
Gray's existing SSA in Grand Junction has benefited the stations in the local community and we foresee the same result in the 4 markets where we would begin SSAs after the Hoak closing.
We plan to participate in the FCC rulemaking to demonstrate these benefits.
Gray does not anticipate that the FCC will move to ban SSAs that like ours do not include joint sales or joint retransmission negotiation.
This concludes my remarks.
I turn the mic back to Hilton.
Thank you very much Kevin.
Operator we'd like to open up the forum for any questions anyone may have.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Aaron Watts with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A couple of clarifiers for me here to kick off.
Same-station revenues.
Is it as simple as kind of backing out that $3.4 million of revenue you highlighted for the acquired stations which just kind of gets you to like a 12.5% year-over-year growth? Am I thinking about that right? Yes you're thinking about that exactly right.
Yes if you're talking about Q1 yes.
And it'd be similar -- it's about $4.7 million in Q2.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then on a same-station basis would you mind filling out local -- what local and national kind of spot was in the first quarter? I think you gave us 10% and 1% growth kind of on a reported basis.
Sure.
If you're excluding the impact of the acquisitions so you're basically doing same station to same station local would be up a very healthy 5%.
National was down reflective of the overall decreases in national.
Digital would be up.
It's about the same 6% -- it'd be up the same 6%.
And our broadcast operating expenses would be up about 7% if you backed out the acquisitions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I know you mentioned along with a handful of your peers that national was a little soft in the quarter.
What are you attributing that softness to? We think in part early in the quarter -- early to mid-quarter it was reflective -- we think in part it was weather-related.
Obviously our strong presence in the Midwest -- in west of -- certainly weather around -- weather was a big factor all over the country.
We've also seen softness in restaurant which probably initially was weather-related as well.
But in fast food we're seeing some major accounts some of them kind of pulled back in Q1 some of them are coming back a little bit in Q2.
So there's a little bit of shift in that category as well.
Some of the key ones also could be reflective of dollars shifting to both Olympics and Super Bowl.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And on auto I think in the release you talked about 11% growth year-over-year.
Is that kind of a good apples-to-apples comparison or is there moving parts in that number? I think it's a good comparison and the impact of the acquired stations all of the -- the few stations we picked up late last year were all relatively small stations in small markets.
So basically -- I mean auto was healthy across the board whether you're with or without the acquisitions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just thinking about the M&amp;A pipeline you guys have been active lately.
You walked us through that.
As you think about things going forward do you think -- I guess what should we expect from Gray more kind of tuck-ins like you've been doing? Is there the potential for something of a little more scale? Maybe you can just comment about that.
Aaron this is Hilton.
Quite candidly we're actively looking at transactions both small and large.
And obviously we're having to adjust some of our expectations and some of the things that we would like to do to take into account the FCC and some of their various different issues that they have with probably JSAs and SSAs.
But there are a number of companies that we are in discussion with and more that we hope to be in discussion with.
And the sizes are all up and down the chain.
Kevin do you have anything to add that? I would just only add that I think there may be opportunities coming from new places that we haven't seen in the past as the FCC moves to unwind JSAs in some cases.
That and some increased acquisition activity among other parties may lead to some spinoff opportunities that would if attractive and meet Gray's profile would certainly be another source of things that Gray would look at.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And...
I'll just add on to that real quick.
Certainly as we look at all of this we're still going to be very mindful of our leverage and continue to be prudent.
We've talked about post-closing Hoak we'd be just about 6x L-8 heading into the mid-5s we think by the end of this year because obviously it will be a very very strong back half of the year with political for us.
And that -- certainly that zone and that trajectory's very comfortable.
So we will be again mindful of first of all looking for high quality and also as we continue to evaluate things mindful of our overall leverage as well.
Research Division</strong> You stole my last question.
That was exactly it.
And the next question will come from Davis Hebert with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Jim I'm not sure if you provided this.
What is pro forma LTM EBITDA? You gave the 8-quarter average.
The pro forma number the operating cash flow number I gave you of $146.4 million would be pro forma for the minor acquisitions we made in latter part of last year and also the Charleston-Huntington CW that we picked up mid-quarter this year.
LLC Research Division</strong> And would that -- is that LTM or is that trailing 8 quarter? No that's -- I'm sorry that was the trailing 8 quarter.
The LTM -- the equivalent LTM number on a T-12 is $120.4 million.
LLC Research Division</strong> $120.4 million okay.
And then on the Internet side you're seeing -- you're expecting some double-digit growth on that side.
I know that the dollars are still relatively small but I wondered if you could give me a sense for -- does that Internet growth cannibalize at all your time sales or do you view that as an incremental separate siloed kind of business? We clearly view it as an incremental business.
We always have.
I mean there could be some generic shift of dollars but that wouldn't -- I mean that'd be just be representative of broader macro trends.
But in general it's sold separately it's billed separately.
We're also pleased as we announced earlier in the year that we are just now beginning to introduce a full-service digital ability in our markets to not only serve -- sell spots on our site but come in and do design work and optimization work.
Our clients have been asking for it and we finally found a partner company to provide the support services that we needed and white label it so it could be our brand in our local markets and that's just getting off the ground in the last handful of weeks.
And we think as that deploys to the entire platform later this year we are expecting to see some nice growth out of it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And some of your peers have been acquiring some Internet companies Nexstar and LIN being 2 at the top of the list.
I mean do you feel like you need some more products and services that you're going to acquire inorganically? What we did with the partner company I think is an excellent way for us to start.
It is -- I mean it's a fixed passed-through fee so we know exactly what they charge to do certain services.
And we can build that into what we then charge our clients.
It allows us to support services we need without the major upfront investment.
It get -- it allows us to -- since this is a new endeavor for us it allows us to gain some experience in selling it and in dealing with our clients in our markets.
And it gives us the flexibility down the road that we can either continue to partner or we could potentially acquire those services by an acquisition or develop certain services internally.
But we think the initial start with a partner company just like we've done many times in the past with a lot of our Internet or digital initiatives we prefer to partner white label learn as we go rather than investing a lot of money upfront and then going to school.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay makes sense.
Last question for me.
I was on a telecom earnings call yesterday and they'd mentioned some -- this is a rural telecom company and they'd mentioned some small businesses having some financial issues a lot of them going out of business.
And since you're in some of those smaller markets just curious to know what -- how you view the small -- the health of the small business and how that might affect local ad spending.
Well our local spend is obviously very healthy both first and second quarter.
We really aren't seeing anything unusual in our receivable collection.
So we think in general while there's always a few small businesses in any given market and any given year that will go under it's just kind of the nature of small businesses we're not seeing any unusual trend so far.
And Main Street for -- in our market seems to be healthy.
And our next question will come from Marci Ryvicker with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I know nationals is flat in the second quarter.
Do you have any visibility into national trends for the third quarter? That's just -- Marci in all candor it's just too far out to really have a trend on it yet.
I mean there's really not enough dollars to form a conclusion.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
We heard from some of your peers it's picked up.
That's what's driving the question.
And then -- yes? Go ahead.
LLC Research Division</strong> The next question is on expenses.
I think you came in a little bit lower in Q1 a little bit higher in Q2 excluding some onetime costs.
So should we use Q2 as a run rate for the rest of the year? I think it's partly reflective of maybe an average of Q1 and Q2.
And obviously there's in Q2 as we pointed out very clearly in the release there is an OTO [ph] noncash charge for our -- because we revised our paid time-off policies effective April 1.
And with us it's always -- I think using an average is probably a little better because we tend to -- some of our employee counts will swing a little bit from quarter to quarter as given the nature of small markets we have a fair amount of turnover which is inherent in our size markets and our business model.
Also we get a little variability in our health and welfare since we're self funded.
So I -- blend first and second quarter and that's probably a reasonable estimate.
Now the only other thing I'd add to that is as we get into especially fourth quarter you would see an increase in national rev fees because they'll take their commission on virtually all of the political dollars that would come in.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
Okay.
And then can you give us an update on your D2 stations remind us how many you have and maybe what the revenue and EBITDA contribution is? Yes.
Through 2013 is probably the easiest number to look at and compare to '12 on a full year basis.
Our digital second channels at the end of '13 we had 58 program streams.
It was about $20 million of net revenue and $10 million of cash flow.
And that would compare to about $15 million in 2012 of net revenue and about $8 million of cash flow in 2012.
So it's reasonably sized.
It's not huge in relation to the overall company but certainly very healthy cash flow.
It comes in on a higher margin than our core business because of the nature of the D2 channel and its expenses are significantly lower.
And it's growing nicely for us so we're very pleased with them.
And next we'll take a question from Charlie Tris from Tiburon.
A question I have with regards to comments you've made about your leverage and how you try to utilize free cash flow to want to get to a reasonable leverage and delever.
Can you comment a little bit about what your expectation is for the year? Today's level is this kind of where you want to be or you had expectations to be lower? Well I think -- first of all we've clearly said that with -- post closing Hoak we'd be at about 6x on a trailing 8-quarter basis going back into the 5s which is certainly by the end of the year given the strength of the political which is not an uncomfortable zone.
I think the bigger question is to over the next -- over the shorter term on leverage would be if it stays in that zone because we have good acquisition opportunities that fit our profile because they're a strong market-leading station.
And clearly something like that would be free cash flow accretive.
Or if those opportunities either take longer to present or quite frankly there isn't the opportunity because we like high-quality and we're willing to be patient for that then obviously free cash flow is -- free cash flow generation is significant and we would probably delever a little quicker.
Okay.
And then one last question with regard to maybe the guidance or just the strength in the local ad space as it relates to auto.
You had a pretty good quarter.
In light of some of the OEMs having very weak 1Q numbers and obviously the recall news are you seeing pacing levels for 2Q affected? Are the U.S.
OEMs having a little bit of a bump or do you still continue to believe that the auto sector is -- in the U.S.
and in your markets are doing okay? No.
Right now and for what we've seen so far in Q2 that seems to be doing okay.
And there's no -- certainly no big red flags in that sector that we're seeing.
And one last question on M&amp;A.
You'd mentioned earlier something -- in the first question that you look -- you would be looking for smaller or bigger deals.
Is this something more of a second half focused? Are you willing to make deals ahead of the Aereo news or are you still waiting for that overhang and then start to really tack on the strategy? Aereo has absolutely no impact on us one way or another and it certainly doesn't have any impact on us with regard to M&amp;A.
So we are looking now and the only thing that slows us down is just trying to find the right quality of assets that fit with our corporate culture and getting a price that we can mutually agree upon.
Okay.
So a lot of the opportunities out there -- there's no one that's saying hey we will renegotiate or engage post Aereo.
It's -- everyone seems to sort of be -- it's not an issue to trying to close a deal or why folks have been quiet about transactions is what you're saying.
No it is not.
I don't think it has an issue really one way or another and I think it has a negligible impact upon our business.
And I don't think it's slowing M&amp;A down at all.
I think probably the biggest issue we have really is more FCC uncertainty rather than Aereo uncertainty.
And next we'll take a question from Jon Evans with JWest LLC.
Can you just talk a little bit about your retrans? I think last quarter that was a surprise there.
And I think you said that they'd be at this level.
What I was curious is then can you help us understand is it Q1 of next year that you'll have another significant bump as you go through the upgrade process? Yes it would be Q1 next year because we -- just speaking for the historical subscriber base for Gray we have roughly 4.5 million subscribers that would come up for renewal at the end of this year.
So we'll obviously see that benefit as we begin 2015.
And that 4.5 million is on your base of what I'm sorry? Our total historic base is about 6.5 million.
Got it.
And then the other...
And we renegotiated 2 million very late last year.
Got it.
And then the 4.5 million that you have coming up are those fairly old contracts or are they fairly recent or I guess...
The majority of those would have been repriced basically 3 years ago.
And this is kind of a standard 3-year cycle that a lot of people in the industry are in which is obviously coming up again at the end of this year.
So they were not terribly old.
They were priced we think basically to market a couple of years ago.
Certainly the market has moved up since they were priced.
We would expect significant increases as we move into the renewals at the end of this year.
But it's not a case of -- the 2 contracts we did at the end of last year we've indicated were very old and very underpriced.
So the step to market was very significant for them.
We certainly expect a big step-up on the 4.5 million at the end of this year but it wouldn't be -- probably -- we wouldn't be as dramatic as the step-up we saw on the 2 million we did the end of last year.
Got it.
And then the last question relative to that when does the other side of the cost start to escalate on you that you had to take the...
Our ABC reverse comp started this year with our renewal of ABC.
We've been paying NBC for a couple of years now as well as FOX.
The CBS agreements come up at the end of this year and we'll be obviously paying CBS beginning next year.
So actually it times out pretty well because as we go into next year and start paying CBS we will have completely repriced our subscriber base within about -- most of our subscriber base concurrent with that happening and all of the subscriber base within the last 12 months of stripping CBS and starting to pay them in '15.
So we think we're in pretty good shape from that standpoint.
And would you expect to keep kind of this 50% where you get about half of what it goes up by or how do you view that? It's been our sense so far that that's where at least in the deals we have seen to date that's where the marketplace is.
And we'll -- it's still very early in the year and I'm sure we'll be talking a lot with CBS as the year goes on and we'll -- I'm sure we'll come to a mutually agreeable set of terms by the end of the year.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question will come from Jim Goss with Barrington Research.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Before I ask the questions I was going to ask piggybacking on what you were just saying Jim basically you're making an interesting point in that if you are getting into renegotiations that could potentially as much as double in some cases the value of your retransmission then when you have to pay reverse comp for the first time you'll basically hit a flattening rather than a -- any sort of dip in the value you would have in that revenue stream.
Is that a fair way to look at it? I think that's kind of the way we're looking at it yes.
Now I mean obviously we get -- you say doubling.
I'm not sure we're doubling.
We've got a lot of subscribers up so we certainly will price to whatever the market standard is at the end of the year it'll be a significant increase.
And again with CBS kicking in at the same time we think the -- being able to reprice our subs at the end of this year is going to have a significant smoothing effect for that.
Obviously that's an increase that's been -- we've been planning for quite some time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
A couple of other things.
I was wondering if the FCC approach to JSAs et cetera given your command of smaller markets would these rules possibly even provide you an opportunity since you're uniquely poised to provide local benefits in those sort of markets in the way you always have in getting multiple touch points or presence in a lot of the smaller markets because they were sort of underserved markets anyway? And we can have -- can that work out to your favor rather than be an impediment? This is Kevin.
I think what you're asking is are there any opportunities for us to start new JSAs under the FCC waiver outline.
I think the answer to that is we'll have to wait and see if the FCC actually grants waivers and if so what the actual criteria are.
At this point there's [indiscernible] announced criteria.
We're not sure how they'll be applied.
So I think the whole industry is going to just need to wait and see if there's actually going to be an opportunity to complete their JSAs down the road.
We're much encouraged with the dominance of our stations in a lot of markets.
Our market share is pretty strong in some markets already so adding an additional TV station to our market share has been a reason why we've done export JSAs in a lot of markets already.
I think the more interesting opportunity coming from the FCC's crackdown is the possibility that some folks some broadcasters may simply unwind JSAs and SSAs entirely and seek to sell a station and -- or break the stations up either to clean things up themselves or as part of a large transaction.
I think that is where we may find some opportunities in that an outright acquisition in an attractive market or potentially a station that was failing under someone else's leadership that we may be able to run a little bit more efficiently run a little bit better.
But in terms of just a straight-out charter of a JSA under the new waiver criteria it's just too early to predict whether that's actually going to provide an avenue for everybody.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Also with the somewhat softer scatter market going into the upfronts recognizing that's a network event not a local station event is there any carryover impact on your own ad pricing in the local markets? No the upfront market has no impact or bearing on what we do in our markets.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it has -- it's not reflective of any trends that you might be experiencing as well? Right.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last thing.
There was an interesting article in the Wall Street Journal this morning titled "More Ad Dollars Flows to Pirated Video" pointing out that some of the digital ad sales placements that were intended to specifically target certain types of ads certain types of activities and placements wound up not getting used entirely in those intended areas and then they wind up on a lot of other sites some of which are pirated some of which might be worse and it effectively offset some of the perceived benefit of digital ad sales placement which should be that targeted element.
I was wondering if you have any experience along those lines that might perhaps hold up the more traditional ad sales where you have a better idea exactly where things are being located and what you're going to get for your money? Well with our digital platforms we're controlling those -- that inventory and that placement.
So -- I mean I think there were -- I mean our customers are -- we know what they're buying and we're servicing them accordingly.
I didn't have the opportunity to read the article so -- but it strikes me as being maybe more of very broad-based national-type buys that are putting themselves over multiple platforms.
And I think that's a completely different market and a completely different buy.
And again in our markets and in our platforms we're controlling what's available to be sold and we know who we're selling to.
So we obviously want to deliver on our sales and make them effective for our clients because we've got to go back and see them next week or the week after and we've got long relationships with all of those people in those small markets and service is #1 for us.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well I was thinking less about your digital ad sales and more about the notion that -- the old saw about we know half of our ad dollars are wasted we just don't know where.
That sort of thing.
If the same experience winds up happening in some of the supposedly better-targeted alternatives that might negate some of the perceived advantage and provide some support from your own ad sales efforts in the broadcast area and other traditional media.
And that was really my train of thought.
You may be right that if people are dissatisfied with where they're spending now that some of that may get reallocated.
And certainly if they want to put money down in our markets we'll be happy to talk to them about it.
And next we'll take a question from Barry Lucas from Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> I was just hoping to get a little political update if you will and thoughts about whether or not you can beat 2010 the last non-presidential year and any particular races or states that may provide some upside with technology in that we're still pretty early in the year? Well as you pointed out Barry Q1 was basically at our expectation.
We're pleased with where our numbers look like they're going to come out for Q2.
Certainly as we've talked many times 50%-plus of our total political spend ends up in Q4.
I mean you go back year after year and that's been a consistent trend.
So we obviously expect a very very strong fourth quarter and a very -- and a healthy third quarter.
I don't think there's been anything terribly surprising yet.
We might have -- Kevin you can feel free to chime in here but all in all we're pleased with what we're seeing so far.
And we think we -- we've said that we did $58 million in '10 the last off year and we think we'll do better than that in '14.
But clearly as we've said many times we're not expecting to break the presidential year record of $86 million from 2012.
[Operator Instructions] And at this time I show no further questions in the queue.
And I'd like to turn the call back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you very much operator.
I just want to thank everyone for joining us this morning.
We're excited about our results.
We really are excited about what looks ahead for 2014.
So thanks for joining us and we'll talk to you next quarter.
Thank you.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Gray Television Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Hilton Howell President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you so much operator.
Good afternoon and welcome to the second quarter 2014 earnings call of Gray Television.
We appreciate your time and thank you for your interest in our company and in our industry.
As usual I will be making a few brief opening remarks followed by Jim Ryan our Senior Vice President and our Chief Financial Officer; and then Kevin Latek our Senior Vice President of Business Affairs will have a brief summary of our recent milestones over the last year at Gray Television.
At the conclusion of our comments we will also be available to answer any questions that you may have.
Before we move to the quarter's results I want to note the announcement that we made on July the 24th but we will be adding WJRT-TV and WTVG-TV to our growing portfolio of market leading new-centered TV properties.
These two ABC affiliated stations with WJRT serving the Flint Saginaw and Bay City Michigan market the 67th largest in our country and WTVG serving the Toledo Ohio market the 76th largest in our country both lead the local markets and all day ratings and in most if not all local news cast.
According to BIA revenue data WJRT-TV is the highest ranked television station in its market and WTVG-TV is a close second ranked in its market.
We are also pleased that we will be adding the CW affiliation in the Toledo Ohio market at closing.
We are extremely happy with this pending acquisition.
These stations have extremely strong news franchises have strong political advertising potential and are an excellent geographic fit with our existing stations in the area WILX NBC affiliate in Lansing Michigan and WNDU NBC affiliate in South Bend Indiana.
We are also very happy to be directly entering the Ohio market.
We have a significant number of Ohio viewer out of our West Virginia station on the Southern part of the state but this is our first entirely Ohio based property.
We expect little regulatory problems with this acquisition and hope that the [SEC] will act expeditiously on their approval.
Upon the closing of all announced and pending acquisitions Gray Television will own and/or operate TV stations in 44 television markets broadcasting 142 program streams including 77 affiliates of the big four networks at that time our owned and/or operated stations will include 27 channels affiliated with CBS 24 stations affiliate with NBC 16 stations affiliated with ABC 10 stations affiliated with the Fox Networks 16 with the CW Network and 17 with My Network TV.
Including the pending acquisition we have added 14 television markets and 32 television stations since this call last year.
In short we are very excited to be expanding in Michigan and entering Ohio directly.
And I would like to take this opportunity to publicly welcome the management the associates and the viewers of WJRT and WTVG to the Gray business family.
Moving on to our results we are very pleased with our quarter and year-to-date results.
Our revenue reached a new record of $107.2 million for the quarter compared to $84.3 million in the prior years comparable quarter a 27% increase.
For the year-to-date our revenue also reached a record of a $198.5 million compared to a $162.5 million in 2013 a 22% increase.
As we noted in our release this morning on a combined historical basis if we began the year with all currently closed acquisitions our year-to-date second quarter revenue would have been approximately $235.7 million.
We had a great deal of combined historical data in our press release this morning and I would like to refer you to this information as I think it's very relevant to Gray and where it's going.
For the second quarter our local advertising increased by $5.8 million or 11% to $56.7 million.
Our National advertising had a slight decrease of $200 000 or 2% to $14.8 million.
Internet advertising revenue increased by $900 000 or 15% to $7.2 million and political advertising revenue increased $7.9 million or a 1 047% to $8.6 million.
And retransmission consent revenue increased $8.3 million or 88% to $17.7 million.
Additionally our net income was reported at $1.6 million for the quarter.
This compares to $5.14 million in the second quarter of 2013 but we have to take into account that we took a charge of $4.9 million for the early extinguishment of debt as a result of the refinancing of our outstanding debt.
Year-to-date local advertising revenue has increased by $10.4 million or 11% to a $107.7 million.
National advertising revenue decreased $300 000 or 1% to $28.2 million.
Internet advertising revenue increased $1.3 million or 11% to $13.2 million.
And political advertising increased by $10 million for the year or 720% to $11.4 million.
Retransmission consent revenue increased $14.7 million or 77% to $33.8 million.
We reported net income for the year of $2.9 million compared to $6 million in the year-to-date in 2013 but also that takes into account the charge of $4.9 million for the early extinguishment of debt.
As we look forward to the balance of the year and we released in this mornings release our guidance for the third quarter obviously were very excited about the potential of this political year.
And Gray because of its news leading stations and because of its locations in very important politically sensitive states has a number of races that are going to be highly contentious.
And while we have a good political revenue thats been reported year-to-date and quarter-to-date we think that third and then fourth quarter are going to be quite good in an non-presidential year.
Based on the data we have to-date we have 18 very competitive senate races in all of our states we have 13 very competitive Governors races in our state.
And then amazingly because we haven't gotten any political revenue out of our two stations in Wichita and Topeka Kansas in sometime we're expecting to have a very competitive a political season in the third and fourth quarter and both as I understand that the Governor and the Senate races in Kansas which will be a very happy surprise.
All in all we feel an excellent quarter.
We feel that it is a great year-to-date performance and we think the balance of the year is going to be sterling.
And with that I will turn it over for Jim Ryan for his comments.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone.
I think Hilton covered pretty well the as reported highlights out of the second quarter.
I'd like to focus a few comments on the combined historical where weve gone back and added the revenue and operating expenses of the acquired stations as if wed owed them from the beginning of 2013 for the second quarter on a combined basis our local was up 3% our national is down similar trends to the rest of the industry has been reporting over the last week or so.
We're pleased to see internet growth on a combined basis up 12% quarter-over-quarter our retransmission revenue on a combined basis would have been $20.3 million and the political revenue for the second quarter would have been $10 million.
Speaking to operating expenses the big driver both in as reported and also on a combined basis was our change in our paid time-off policy in second quarter revamped and revised a very antiquated vacation and sick time policy and turn it into paid time-off policy we indicated that charge will be coming through when we issued our second quarter guidance that amount is about 3.8 million.
In the second quarter it's a non-cash charge we just had to increase the accrual based on our changes and policy.
And that really one of the more significant expense drivers in prior second quarter both as reported we're on a combined basis.
The other big driver on the expense side that we've talked about repeatedly on the TV line is the increase and reverse comp to the networks that was up about 2.2 million in the quarter 2.4 million on a as a reported basis.
And that in part reflects again that we just started paying reverse comp to ABC at the beginning of this year.
On the six months numbers again we were pleased on a combined basis with the local growth of a solid 4% on national has been sluggish as others have reported but we also saw again on a six months combined basis strong Internet growth of 9%.
We think Internet going forward over the next year or so especially with acquired stations gives us big opportunity with the acquired stations and certainly with the place we get add a lot of value and begin to ramp up those revenues.
And again on an expense basis for the first six months of the year the big driver again was the changing paid-time-off policy which was non-cash charge.
And then reverse comp network was about 4.5 million and again that in large part reflects the new agreements with ABC.
Turning add categories this would exclude the acquired stations so this will just the legacy historic Gray stations but we're very pleased to see our auto was up a solid 6% in the quarter and it is still tracking up 8% for the year so we think thats very healthy.
We did see weakness in communications furniture and appliances both during the quarter and year-to-date.
And we also saw weakness in the financial category but we did see improvements in entertainment throughout the year as well as strong performance in department discount stores in the second quarter and home improvement as well? Broadcast cash flow this would be before our corporate expense was up 25% in the quarter on an as reported basis and was up a solid 19% on a combined historical basis and year-to-date BCF on a reported basis was up 25%.
And on a combined historical basis broadcast cash flow again was up a very strong 20% year-over-year we are very pleased to see that.
Quick comment on our expense line in the corporate for the second quarter and year-to-date.
Again please keep in mind that we did close the Hoak transaction mid June.
With the closing of that transaction we had a lot of deal costs that hit the corporate line late Q2.
There was about 4.5 million of deal costs that we had to expense as we came to close Hoak that ran through the corporate expense line in second quarter.
So again thats the main driver of any changes year-over-year there.
Turning ahead to guidance for a minute for third quarter.
We see actually improving trends in National although that trend line is improving as the quarter moves on July remained sluggish but August is looking a little bit better and September is pacing actually in positive territory which is very good to see.
We're also tracking up lower single-digits in local revenue as well.
And again as Hilton commented we are expecting a very strong performance in political in third quarter and our retrans run rate now with the stations that we have acquired for the quarter is about to just shy of $20 million on a run rate now that we've closed the transactions.
Turning to the balance sheet and the credit facilities for a minute.
First of all we were extremely satisfied and pleased with the new cedar credit facility we put in upon closing Hoak.
Just to remind everyone quickly there was a $525 million senior facility prices at LIBOR plus $300 with a 75 point LIBOR floors our current all in rate is 3.75.
And that facility matures in 2021 and it's a covenant like with just the total incurrence test of seven times on a trailing eight quarter basis.
There is a maintenance test when the revolver is drawn currently are $40 million our revolver is undrawn and those maintenance tests were set to the same test we had at the old facility so there is ample room there.
But our total leverage is defined in the credit facility at the end of the quarter would have been 6.17 again on a trailing 8 quarter basis with a first lien leverage of 2.6 which is from a first lien standpoint is relatively low.
And our trailing eight quarter cash flow was approximately $191.7 million.
Total debt at the end of the quarter was $1.2 billion which is the $525 million of the senior facility and another $675 million of our 7.5% senior unsecured notes.
From a CapEx perspective we had 6.7 of CapEx in the quarter $10.5 million so far this year on an all-in basis for the year.
Were still expecting total CapEx will be approximately $30 million with and impart because of the acquisitions weve made this year.
We had virtually no cash taxes in the quarter and only $18 000 of cash taxes so far this year.
I would expect a little bit more later in the year but still a relatively small de minimus number $1 million $1.5 million in that range.
Program payments for the quarter were 3.9 million.
All-in reported basis for the year thats probably getting to that 17 million with the acquisitions on a combined historical basis is probably close to 18.5 million or 19 million.
And the amortization numbers track pretty close to the payment numbers.
Retransmission revenue again down on as reported basis by the end of the year wed expect retransmission to be about 73 million.
And in all-in rate on a combined basis for this year it would be closer to 80 million.
And then again on a reported basis about 19 million in reverse comp this year and on a combined basis it would be on a full year combined it would be closer to 21 million.
So we are tracking the year as we expected.
Were pleased with where weve come so far.
Were pleased with what were seeing in core local.
We are expecting a very strong second half of the year with the political and I'll remind everyone that historically anyways at least half of our political revenue doesn't hit until the fourth quarter.
Weve got a very good capital structure with a very low cost of overall debt for us.
So we're well positioned as weve talked about last several calls to generate a very good free cash flow both in non political years as well as even stronger free cash flow in the political years with the added benefit of the very large political that we attract with our #1 number news station.
So as we talked about in other calls as we -- and you can see in the investor presentation thats on our website.
From June were well positioned at this point to conservatively generate a $100 million of free cash flow on a two year average and $200 million plus of free cash flow on a combined two year cycle with the political.
And I would hope as the future unfolds those numbers prove to be a little bit conservative.
At this point Ill turn the comments over to Kevin.
Thank you Hilton.
Thank you Jim.
Last July Gray announced a streamline management structure so we predicted at the time would allow us to be decisive innovative and agile.
To quote Hilton from that press release announcing the management changes our new structure is scalable in a way that allows us to grow our company in our local brands quickly.
Now one you later we thought it would be worthwhile to take a few minutes on this call to review the company's progress in light of those bold predictions.
Obviously Gray is a larger more dynamic broadcast company today.
One year ago as Hilton mentioned at the opening of the call Gray own and operate television stations in 30 markets broadcasting 45 channels affiliated with the Big Four and 41 additional channels programming.
Through carefully selected acquisitions and the creation of a handful of new local channels Gray has grown its portfolio of television stations and digital assets pretty significantly over the past year.
With the recently announced transactions in Helena Great Falls Flint and In Toledo closed in the coming weeks and months Gray will own and/or operate television stations in 44 markets broadcasting a 142 program streams including 77 affiliates to the Big Four network.
We will then own or operate the number one ranked television station 29 of 44 markets the number one or number two ranked station operations 40 of those 44 markets.
And that point we will reach slightly more than 8% of total U.S.
television households.
Jim has spoken about the impact of these new stations on the result of our operations; it's also worth noting that our capital structure has much improved over the last year as well.
Last October Gray announced that we successfully completed an offering of $375 million of additional senior notes due 2020 proceeds of which were used to pay down credit facility to added general corporate purposes.
This past June Gray completed the refinancing with senior credit facility which now consists as Jim mentioned with seven year $525 million term loan facility and five year $50 million revolving credit facility.
Returning to last October we announced then the launch of a new look for the company putting a modern and three dimensional iconic logo and a cutting edge website.
By now you're all probably familiar with iconic camera lens logo that represents the great lens so which millions of people across the country see the world.
We encourage you to visit our website where we now feature among other things that come as historic milestones awards and achievements of our local stations that we believe sets Gray apart from the others.
This April we launched LocalX Marketing which is a new Gray owned digital marketing solution that brings products and services to local businesses throughout our markets in which Gray operates television stations.
LocalX offers fully customizable solutions for local businesses and local non-profits to grow in private and digital space including mobile and responsive design search engine optimization social media management e-commerce database management call tracking reputation management.
Our digital team now also licenses our home grown digital vertical known as MomsEveryday to television stations outside of the Gray footprint.
In June of course we completed the Hoak transaction.
That deal represents second largest acquisition in our companys 117 year history and added 12 excellent stations in the programming and operations to be additional stations that were previously owned or operated by Hoak Media.
At that time we also embarked on a new approach to unwind our shared service agreement that has not been attempted previously by any broadcaster to our knowledge.
Specifically we worked with Hoak and Prime Cities Broadcasting to transition the program lineups of KHAS CNBC and Hastings; KNDX the FOX of this market KXMB the FOX and [what not] to five other television stations owned by Gray in those stations markets.
We also announced to transfer these former shared serviced stations and are remaining three shared services stations to new owners but not just any owners with the assistance of Hoak Excalibur Parker and Prime Cities we are marketing these stations only to individuals institutions that are underrepresented in broadcasting such women and minority owned businesses and non-profit groups.
We hope that our innovative approach expensed versus an opportunity in the broadcast business while also becoming a new model for the rest of the industry.
The acquisitions over the past year have been consistent with Grays announced strategy of enhancing shareholder value through select acquisitions of market leading stations that show the cultured values of our existing TV stations.
Moreover each acquisition when close has been or will be immediately free cash flow accretive to Gray.
The past 12 months have witnessed a very exciting string of acquisitions and new company initiatives.
This truly great have to follow Gray.
And Hilton Jim our nearly 3 000 colleagues appreciate your interest and support.
Thank you for your time.
I'll turn the call back to Hilton.
Thank you very much Kevin.
Operator at this time we'd be delighted to take any questions from anyone.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
And we'll go first to Aaron Watts with Deutsche Bank.
Afternoon guys.
Afternoon.
So Jim a couple of quick clarifiers to make sure I'm thinking about this right.
You highlighted a couple called a non-regular items expenses in the quarter that you guys incurred I think you mentioned almost 4 million of the employee benefit policy switch cost that was non-cash and you had some legal and professional fees type your acquisition $4.5 million.
Is it fair to say that dragged down your EBITDA in the quarter? If I wanted to think about normalized EBITDA I could exclude those items? I mean the simple answer is yes certainly the deal cost drag down our EBITDA I'm not sure if that's completely I think I might take a different view of that.
If you go back to the guidance we actually published in our Q1 earnings release for Q2.
And do like a high side revenue low side expense to pick up the corporate number the EBITDA you calculate there comes into I think was about $0.5 million or so the actual EBITDA that we generated in the quarter.
So yes we had some unusual things almost $4 million in non-cash and on the personnel on the PTL change and certainly the $4.5 million or so of deal cost in Q2 while we will have some more deal cost in Q3 unless another transaction comes in a way at some point in time certainly that $4.5 million would not be recurring down the road thats for the certain.
Okay all right.
Just wanted to make sure I was thinking about that right.
And I guess secondly did I hear you correctly youre trailing a quarter leverage right now 6.17 against that 7 times in current test in the credit facility? I think I misspoke.
Just a minute thank you for asking me again.
Let me just get to the right page in my notes please.
No youre right its 6.17.
Okay.
This was exactly it.
Got it.
And then kind of the last kind of financial detail on any kind of could you quantify just the additional funding requirements you have for acquisitions that have already been announced? Well weve announced the SJL acquisition thats -- will be we have obviously were in a very strong cash position with the over $60 million of cash flow on the balance sheet well be building cash in a rest of the years with the political cycle.
So I think a large part of that transaction well be able to finance with the existing cash on hand the residual piece that will need to be financed more likely than not.
Right now I would say with probably under been a relatively small amount of incremental on our existing term loan facility.
Okay.
And then one question on just kind of a core ad trends it looks like if I compare your second quarter detail with what you're providing us in terms of outlook for the third quarter that national advertising is trending in the right direction.
Is that a fair comment that or a fair thought that continue to improve from what looks like a low point in the second quarter and what was pushing that? That is certainly is what we're seeing right now in the pacing and certainly what we are suggesting in our guidance the guidance has national down in Q3 on a combined historical basis low single-digits versus the more stronger declines we've already seen so far this year.
So certainly it does appear to be improving and if you look at just like pacing sequentially through the quarter July and August are still sluggish but moving in the right direction and September currently is actually pacing positive in the mid single-digit range.
So based on what we're seeing right now yes it does look like it's improving.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks a lot for taking my questions.
And we'll take our next question from Marci Ryvicker with Wells Fargo.
Thanks.
I think the reason why your stock is down is because we can't figure out how much of the acquired positions are Hoak and so if you take out all of that $8.9 million of revenue it looks like you missed the guidance on the top-line.
Can you reconcile what you gave us for revenue guidance with what you reported ex-Hoak and maybe help clarify what's going on? Yes.
Just give me a minute to get to the right place to look that up.
The simple answer would be and again I'm trying to pull up some more details.
But the simple answer Marci is that if you strip out just a couple of weeks we had of Hoak in the second quarter.
Our revenue would have come in at 103.9 against the 104 side higher rage and our expense would have come in at 64.7 which actually was still underneath the low end of the range.
And those are the TV revenue and TV expense line.
The corporate line would then have roughly the 4.5 million of field costs that went through second quarter when we actually closed Hoak.
Okay.
I think that probably helps a lot.
And then just in terms of your portfolio when you think of uses of cash.
You're doing so many different things.
How do you think about the return on a digital asset versus a return on a TV station? Well our digital assets were growing internally even the LocalX is we didn't grow by our company we're partnering with people to help us provide those services but we are labeling it under our brand so the historic digital activities we have had have come generally at higher margins in the core TV but we are able to lever that for instance the MomsEveryday product we have that we generated internally we are able to lever that also a lot of things we are already doing.
Something like a LocalX we are just getting started with that.
We expect good things out of it overtime but we think it will take a little time to develop there its probably a business thats a lower margin and the historic TV but higher volume but we see that as an important place to be in our markets because our clients over the last year to two years have been coming to us and saying we need help with these other services too can you provide it? And we kept saying no we cant and we started seeing them go to other people to get those services and then starting to see and as that increased we ran the risk of other people being able to talk to our clients and start to move ad budgets around.
So we wanted to be in the best position possible in our markets to be able to control those types of things which is why we decided to get into the digital services in our markets a little earlier this year.
Okay thank you.
And specifically in Q2 Hoak revenue was 3.3 million from the date of close to the end of the quarter and the Hoak expenses were 1.3 million? That was very helpful.
Thank you so much.
And we'll take our next question from Davis Hebert with Wells Fargo Securities.
Hi good afternoon.
Thanks for taking the question.
Jim I just wanted to clarify something you said earlier on July August September the monthly outlook.
Was that specific to national? Yes it was.
Those comments I think were specific to national yes.
Okay got it.
Just want to make sure.
But also in general in general local is running in the up low single-digit area.
Okay okay.
That's what I thought just want to confirm.
And then on the two acquired stations can you talk about the revenue profile for those two stations.
How much political is a factor I would guess it's fairly large being those two are battleground states.
Just wonder if you could talk about that.
Yes they do have a strong track record both in Presidential and non-Presidential years of very strong political performance.
When we issued our release a few weeks ago we said that was a blended two year average of 12-13 it was about a 7 times multiple.
So they are -- the combination of few stations they are very strong performers and we're looking forward to get it to a closing there as quickly as possible because it is a clean FCC process there it's a straight up one on one station.
So we're hoping they will try quickly with the commission.
Okay.
Can you give us an estimate of what the 12-13 revenue is for those two stations? Given that they are privately held a little reluctant to do that prior to closing without having gotten pre-permission from the sellers and Im not trying to not answer your question but I think you can drive the cash flow based on the multiple I gave you and then their margins Id say are as good or given that there is strong stations in those markets their margins are very strong TV margin.
So I think you can get ship back into that a little bit.
Okay.
That helps.
And can you -- you gave the eight quarter EBITDA of $191.7 that includes Hoak right but not anything related to SJL Right.
That would be correct the 191.7 is only for acquisitions closed and/or stations being operated under servicing agreements.
It would not include anything for the pending acquisitions in Flint and Toledo.
Would you have LTM pro forma available? Yes.
The LTM there is approximately 166.5.
Okay.
And then last question from me just any update are you having negotiations talks with CBS on renewal of that affiliation stream? This is Hilton I will answer that question and then Kevin may want to follow-up with me.
Yes weve spoken to CBS and but were not going to negotiate publicly.
We feel pretty confident that we will be able to reach agreement with CBS.
We think were very good partner of GBS and with every one of our network partners.
So we feel like well be able to reach agreement on solid terms at the appropriate time.
Okay.
Thank you Hilton.
Thank you Jim.
(Operator Instructions).
We'll go next to James Goss with Barrington Research.
Thanks.
Is CBS the main outstanding reverse comp issue you have to address? Yes it is.
Kevin do you want to touch on that as well with some color? Yes.
Sure.
CBS is the last network so we get to begin and reverse comp the rest those kick in over the last couple of years I think support those as theyve kicked in ABC so kicking in this year.
Just to put one thing in context in the last 12 months we have assumed or signed new affiliation with over 40 big four stations.
So weve not negotiated any of those in press.
We don't issue press releases when theyre done.
Weve done long-term contracts with two of our three biggest providers in the last several months.
And we don't issue press releases on them.
If deals get done in the ordinary course at this time we're talking with [possibly four] parties about lots of different things and I expect we'll continue our track record of coming to agreements without fanfare and public outcry or public statements.
In the past occasions when youve made such agreements do they phase in or do they come in more quickly than that on the reverse comp side? Historically and Ill speak more generally to all networks and help our broadcast stations.
Your number conciliation specifies comp no comp or reverse comp.
And when the new term kicks in you negotiate the different financial range at that point so it would depend on the contract.
For years we had a lot of broadcasters had contract where they were getting comp for a number of years and then went through zero comp situation and then went through reverse comp for the years to contract.
And the general rule of reverse comp starting each time for new contracts been renewed is general matter of industry.
Our contracts with CBS as we've been clear so far do not include reverse comp (inaudible) comp period we did now the end reverse comp cycle with that in those contracts again with the bulk of those at the end of this year.
Alright.
Couple of other things.
In political it seems like you had somewhat better quarter than might have expected given that you do tend to do better in the presidential election years.
And Im wondering if the races you outlined at the beginning of the call was one of the factors that you have unusually large momentum from that standpoint? This is Hilton.
I'll just give you some local color.
I was at our station KKTV in Colorado Spring couple of days ago.
And they've got aggressive gubernatorial and some senatorial races going on there.
And our station is full off.
And they've begun much earlier in the cycle than perhaps has been traditionally expected.
And I think that's a new reality thats very positive for the broadcast business because Election Day is often months away from when people start voting today.
And I think that President Obama in the last Presidential election demonstrated very positively to the run of advertising earning.
His first advertisements that Gray received were also similarly at least I recall in Colorado in grand junction.
And we got presidential election money in May and that was much earlier for the general.
And so that was much earlier than what we have been saying in the past.
So I think the political window has been expanded significantly.
And so I think thats part of what would had decent political so far this year.
Okay.
And then one other area Gray has traditionally been one of the more aggressive leaders in digital and mobile and some of the other initiatives like that and I man wondering if you are seeing any potential to participate in the emerging mobile ad market in a way that to become more meaningful and what sort of pricing you would be getting in that sort of area? And whether or not some of these initiatives might help offset some of the inherent cyclicality that you have with the political cycles in your success in driving up the political revenues in your markets?  I think that the industry and everyone else can agree on a mobile standard I think that we are going to be right there in the vanguard audit because we have worked very hard to have mobile capacities in each one of our [DMOs] in every market.
And we have been very aggressive and been very very successful at creating digital assets that we have monetized in an outstanding fashion.
I think its one of the best standards in the industry.
And so that is certainly our goal and our hope because more and more we are going to be seeing mobile being an important portion of everyones lives.
I dont think that in any way diminishes the power of midstream television and what that brings to our home.
But I think it adds to that power and allows television and the creators and broadcasters of television to be even more ubiquitous.
And I think that's very important and I'm very excited for our entire industry.
Alright.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
We'll go next to Barry Lucas with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Thanks and good afternoon.
Just a couple of items here one could you discern or even describe any geographic differences in terms of national or local and was there much variance between your markets either by geography or size? I'm not seeing much of pattern Barry I mean it just is in every quarter and every year some markets are doing better than others.
But it doesn't I won't say there is any pronounced pattern one way or the other.
We see that year in and year out.
Whether it's everything is robust or whether it's a little sluggish like national has been so far this year.
So no real clear pronounced pattern.
Okay.
And I'm not sure if you have done this in the past but do you have the pro forma combined politicals for 10 and 12? I don't I can give you some give me half a second here.
I can maybe give you an idea of 12 but I do not have 10.
And this wouldnt pick up everything but the big picture for 12 would be Gray had historically $86 million and Hoak about 12 so that would give -- and the others would have contributed some but not a huge amount sort of give you some feel.
Okay.
And then finally Jim I want to make sure I heard you right on the description of free cash flow that was a $200 million per year? Over over no no 200 over rate of full two year cycle and that would average to be roughly 100 million and if you just do you did a simple full year your average it would be a 100 but obviously the political year is going to be heavier than the non-political year.
Right.
But are you thinking thats more 13-14 14-15 15-16?  I think whether its a 13-14 14-15 I dont think its whole a lot different 15 is probably a little bit better I would expect 15 being a little bit better than 13 because obviously we and many other people in the industry are going to get another round of retrans at the end of this year and will be weve got roughly 5 million subscribers that will be negotiating before the end of the year.
So certainly were looking for uplift there.
But now you could add in 15 16 to go further out its going to improve that much more.
And so its more of a near-term next couple of years or what the last couple of years would have looked like.
Okay.
Last item for me Jim and maybe more for Hilton actually but when I look over it what David Smith is doing on programming side and probably makes a lot of sense since he is bumping up against cap but hes not the only one youve got scripts investing in program narrative because of their unique properties doing some of the home and garden kind of programming is how much of an opportunity how much does it make sense given your size and scale to be thinking about programming more of the day on our own stations?  So I think that while we don't have 39% of the country I think that we have a very a real possibility to continue to expand and create our own programming.
It's something that we'd look at beginning.
We got folks on our creative and on our programming sides across the board looking and doing things just like that as with speak.
A lot of what we've done in most obvious example being MomsEveryday its something that was created in house and now we're taking it to non-Gray properties outside of where we do business.
So I think there is going to be a lot of opportunities to do just exactly that.
Ill say one other thing with regard to the Hoak acquisition theyve created a I believe it's called Dakota today program where they are doing a lot more programming directly in the Dakota areas which as you know because of all oil and gas phenomenon over the last five or six years is one of the fastest growing places.
If not the fastest growing place in the United States right now and that's a property that we're excited to have in those areas and we'll expanding and looking to create even more.
I will say further at our General Managers Meeting I guess the last one study was about a year and a half ago where we did this.
Each one our properties presented their own ideas for different programming and went through a pretty thorough analysis.
So we continue to look at them.
Right now we're very happy with kind of what we have out there.
But we're prepared and able to expand pretty dramatically the amount of programming that we create and what we have in-house and one of the reasons that I think that we're particularly good at that is because we're not at David Smiths percentage of the country.
Our average market share and each of our 44 markets is pretty substantial.
And so we can quickly get product on the air that we think it's going to have a solid audience and that we can quickly monetize.
And I think that's because of the quality of the stations that we have invested in over the past decades.
Great.
Thanks very much.
I appreciate it.
Thanks.
And gentlemen we have no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back to for any additional remarks.
Well thank you so much operator and I want to thank each and every one of you for your time today.
I know it's been a full week with a lot of news in the broadcast business.
And I appreciate your time to listen to us.
We're really truly excited about what we've been able to accomplish over the last year and we're very excited about what the future has to bring.
Thank you for joining us and we'll talk to you next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you and that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Gray Televisions Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Todays conference is being recorded.
At this time Id like to turn the conference over to Hilton Howell President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and welcome to Gray Televisions third quarter earnings conference call.
I'm joined by Jim Ryan our Chief Financial Officer; and Kevin Latek our Senior Vice President of Business Affairs.
And as usual after our brief comments discussing our earnings release this morning we will answer any questions that any of you may have.
As you saw this morning Gray reported record revenue for both the third quarter and year-to-date with both revenue and broadcasting corporate expenses above and below our expectations respectively.
We also announced and this is something that we are quite proud of that we have renewed all CW and NBC stations through 2018.
We are very pleased in that now every network with which we are affiliated has entered into long-term agreements with Gray Television.
Obviously the political campaign this year which concluded last night except for our stations in Louisiana contributed to these record results.
Our political revenue hit a record for a non-presidential year and got close to rivalling presidential year's performance.
Gray benefits from having highly rated top news providers in most all of the battleground states and we believe that due to our local market dominance we get the lion's share of political advertising dollars.
All politics is local.
And no group can provide access to our local markets better than Gray Television.
For the quarter Gray received $22 million and $33.5 million year-to-date in political advertising.
While we are still counting we have over $80 million on the books as indicated in our fourth quarter guidance an historic number.
While control of the Senate has been settled last night we still had the run off in Louisiana which should run through November with the election on December 3.
I believe that on a per television household basis Gray receives more in political advertising dollars per household than any other broadcaster by a significant margin.
Due to the sheer velocity of political advertising in our stations and despite very careful and attentive inventory controls by our general managers some categories of our core business were slightly deferred but this is a trade off we are happy to accept.
Moving on to our results we couldn't be happier with them with our quarter and year-to-date.
Our revenue reached a new record of $131.7 million for the quarter compared to $88.2 million for the prior year's quarter a 49% increase.
For the year-to-date our revenue also reached a record of $330.2 million compared to $215 million in 2013.
Our net income was reported at $13.9 million for the quarter or $0.24 per share compared to $7 million or $0.12 per share for the same quarter last year.
Year-to-date our net income was $16.8 million or $0.29 per share compared to $13 million or $0.23 per share in 2013.
However please recall that this year we took a $4.9 million charge on the early extinguishment of our debt prior to this year.
Significantly our broadcasting cash flow our free cash flow has increased to 129.6 million this year compared to 91.5 million last year.
And we have accumulated $80 million of cash on our balance sheet so far this year.
With that I will bring my comments on our results to a close and turn it over to Jim Ryan.
Jim? Thank you Hilton and good morning everyone.
I think Hilton has kind of covered some of the P&amp;L highlights.
Again we're extremely pleased with the results both on a reported basis and also on a combined historical basis.
Our third quarter combined historical had political of $23 million which was $2 million to $3 million higher than we would have anticipated.
And the last part of that political came in in a big wave of very late in September and we were pleased with the SJL acquisition in mid September on the 15.
And we were able to pick up about 350 000 of political revenue from Flint and Toledo because we were able to close before the quarter end.
Focusing my comments on the balance sheet for a minute at quarter end our total debt was $1.301 billion.
Our trailing eighth quarter cash flow number as defined in our credit agreement was $203.3 million Our leverage ratio according to our credit agreement was $6.3 million which is what we expected.
We had on a trailing 12-month basis our operating cash flow as defined in our senior credit agreement would have been about $194 million.
We've been -- we're very pleased with the trajectory of the third quarter and our outlook for the fourth quarter again very very strong political in the fourth quarter.
Our core local and national is likely to be down slightly because of the sheer volume of the political going in but as Hilton said a minute ago we're very happy to take that trade and -- because it's on a net cash flow basis certainly very positive for the company.
Trending for the quarter in core we see business post election in November picking up as we would expect.
Obviously it was heavily crowded out in October with the massive political and December is trending positive.
It's a little early to tell how exactly the retail season for December is going to break but the post election trend lines are encouraging.
Couple comments on the cash flows in balance sheet again.
CapEx for the quarter was $10 million $20.5 million year-to-date.
We're still tracking to be about $30 million for the year.
We had no significant cash taxes in the quarter.
And only about 360 000 of cash taxes for year-to-date.
Our retransmission revenue on an as reported basis for the third quarter was $19.7 million and $53.5 million for the year.
Our reverse comp on an as reported basis was $5.3 million for the quarter $13.4 million for the year.
More importantly -- year-to-date more importantly on a fully pro forma basis for all of our acquisitions including Hoak and including SGL we would anticipate that our 2014 gross retrans number -- revenue number would be about $85 million.
Our reverse comp expense would be about 24 million so our net re-trans is -- on a fully pro forma basis in 2014 is about $61 million.
We anticipate and expect that even though CBS will kick-in next year for reverse comp as we talked about on our earlier calls that we will be ahead of that $61 million pro forma number in 2015 on an as reported basis.
Also as Hilton mentioned we renewed our NBC affiliations through the end of 2018 as well as our CW affiliations.
In 2015 those renewals of our NBC do not change our expectations for what we have been anticipating would be our reverse comp payments to NBC in 2015.
So we're very very happy again that we've got all of our networks locked up in long-term affiliation agreements at the present time.
This point Kevin I'll turn the comments over to you.
Thank you Jim and thank you Hilton earlier.
As you all have heard the third quarter remained a busy one for Gray.
I wanted to take a couple moments to talk about bigger picture issues for us.
In the third quarter of 2014 our new stations continued transitioning into the Gray family and all of our stations have continued to innovate into the local businesses and viewers despite sometimes of increasing macro headwind.
Most of our stations were very busy covering and promoting yesterday's historic elections from North Carolina Louisiana and Georgia Florida Wisconsin Ohio Michigan South Dakota of course Kansas among others.
Meanwhile we continue to position Gray for long-term growth and certainty.
In late July as you know we announced the acquisition of WJRT in Flint and WTVG in Toledo.
In less than eight weeks we were able to tame both only FCC consent and close that transaction.
In late August we announced we entered into long-term renewals of our CBS FOX affiliations including many early renewals of those affiliations.
That news in fact powered by just a few months of renewal all of our ABC affiliations.
Also in late August we announced we entered in two agreements with some very talented broadcasters to purchase all six of the stations that we had operated under joint sales or shared services agreements.
Those transactions should all close before the end of the year.
A few days ago we closed our acquisition of the NBC stations in Great Falls and Helena Montana.
As you saw this morning we announced we included our affiliations renewals NBC and CW.
These deals included early renewals for number of those stations as well and thus since the beginning of 2014 Gray has entered into long-term renewals for all of its network affiliation agreements with ABC CBS NBC FOX and CW.
These renewals are important because they provide Gray with long-term stability and certainly for our most important programming relationships.
I also think it is probably unprecedented that a broadcast group has renewed all of its affiliations with all five networks in the same year.
Finally in the past few days we begun negotiations with MVPD partners to renew and reprise the retransmission consent agreement that expire at year end.
As you've heard from us previously we have approximately 9.5 million Big Four affiliate subscribers in total.
5 million Big Four affiliate subscribers are covered by retrans agreements expiring in December 31 2014 and approximately 900 000 big four affiliate subscribers are covered by agreements that expire at various times through 2015.
We expect the good faith efforts on both sides of these negotiations will result in smooth and timely renewals of all retrans contracts this year just as we have been able to achieve in all prior years.
This concludes my remarks today.
I turn the call back to Hilton.
Thank you.
Right.
Thank you Kevin.
Operator are there any questions for any of us?  Thanks.
You guys gave a lot of color so I have a quick one for you.
And Jim you kind of addressed the Q3 and Q4 postal action -- or Q4 postal action was pretty good.
It looks like national has actually gotten better sequentially.
I think it was down 8% in Q3 down low-single digits if I have this right in Q4 despite this political squeeze out.
Is there anything that you can say about national at this point for Q4 and even for 2015? I think you're right we do think it has been on a relative basis been improving as the year has gone on and the latter part of the year looks a little bit better.
We're in the initial phases of our budgets process for 2015.
I think we -- at the very least we think national next year is stable.
It may grow a little bit.
But we -- our current expectation for next year would not be to see continuing declines but a stabilization from this year.
And moving forward we certainly would expect our core local next year in 2015 to see definite growth there.
We would be reasonably pleased with growth rate that was a little bit ahead of GDP so we put it in the maybe low to aggressively thinking maybe low to middle-single digit rain but certainly positive growth in core local next year.
And what about auto? Auto was down I think 3% in the third quarter.
We heard about some softness last night from some of the networks.
Is this something that is going to be continuing or is it being squeezed out? It's a little harder to read.
We're not terribly troubled with our Q3 auto being down a little bit and it's likely to be down a little bit in Q4.
But again when we think about it it's really the political displacement on the inventory.
Auto advertisers are classic news buyers and political advertisers are also classic news buyers.
And so in September and October it's very common for us to see you know auto business going to the sidelines to some extent and with the massive amount of political we had in October quite actually getting pushed to the sidelines.
So we're not overly troubled with what we're seeing in the auto right now.
It's -- we've seen it before with political.
That's why we're not that concerned about it.
Right.
Thank you very much.
Hi guys thanks for all the detail.
Could you just pro forma for all the acquisitions what would be your you know last quarter EBITDA? I think you said 203 does that take into account all the acquisitions? Yes.
The 203 is a blended eight quarter average including all the acquisitions and it's the defined term in our credit agreement.
The EBITDA number on a pro forma basis for Q3 bear with me while I look it up it would be approximately 138 adjusting for noncash corporate charges.
Okay.
Thank you.
Are you guys seeing that...
That's a nine-month  that would be a nine-month fully pro forma number.
Right.
Got you.
Are you guys seeing a higher portion of your political advertising coming from super packs than it used to? Yes.
Yes.
Yes it's -- that trend has  it started when the -- with the Supreme Court ruling and certainly has become becoming more pronounced with each cycle we've seen since then.
And could you talk a bit about the you know the pricing differential there? Is that -- are you -- are you seeing higher prices than you used to? Yes.
Soft money definitely we're seeing very significantly higher prices than we would have seen in the past in very tight highly contested races.
And certainly the soft money is pricing exponentially higher than our normal core business would be pricing in a nonelection cycle.
All right.
Thanks.
As an aside and for illustration we had a 30 second spot in Thursday night football a couple weeks ago in a highly contested political state and that 30 second spot went for $70 000 which would be unheard of in the market size that it was in.
It was by and far an all-time record.
Right.
Okay.
Thanks.
Now your net re-trans commentary was very helpful.
I wish everyone would talk about it like that.
Would you expect the number to continue to trend positively in 2016? Yes.
Okay.
Through the next three year -- well we believe it will trend positive for the -- for the foreseeable future but specifically in this three-year cycle that its coming up yes we would expect it to be trending positive 2015 2016 and 2017.
Okay.
It may not be perfectly linear in its trend but certainly positive in each of those years over the 2014 pro forma baseline.
And obviously once we get done renegotiating those 5 million subs they're up at the end of this year and the other 900 000 at various points in time next year will have a much better and more accurate feel for exactly how that's going to trend but definitely we see it up in each year.
Great.
Thanks.
Could you just remind us or kind of give us an update on the JSA legislation from earlier this year and is there any change in how operators are thinking about kind of getting by the JSA rules is it as simple as hiring more sales people at the smaller station or is it stations are going to come for sale here in a couple years and you might be able to buy some? Kevin you want to Yeah this is Kevin.
JSA rules at this point still require and winding of JSAs in June 2016.
Well there is legislation pending to extend that legislation has not been signed by the President and certainly after yesterday we know anything is possible going forward.
For our standpoint we don't  when we finished selling and unwinding our arrangements this year we won't have any JSAs and we're not looking to start new JSAs.
So we've not really been following the details.
What we have seen as other broadcasters are coming up with other approaches to maintaining JSAs and shared services agreements.
There's going to be different I think a number of different approaches attempted.
Some will be successful.
We saw Nexstar obviously got approval for their transaction with Grant recently by the FCC.
So there may be a path forward here but I suspect it's going to be a different set of approaches for each company.
From our standpoint again we just don't see an opportunity for us to go back into that business.
I think we've been running our stations pretty well without JSAs.
In terms of future pickups down the road I think it's certainly possible that the JSA unwinding will lead to some stations being divested in those circumstances it would be my guess that the station being sold by a party thats going to be the far weaker of the two stations which would probably not be candidate to join Gray.
Given our acquisition preferences buying a weak station that has been under a JSA or SSA with another broadcaster for few years is probably not something we'll be very appealing for us but it could be for other broadcasters but thats still year and a half away certainly a lot has changed in the landscape in the last year and a half.
It may be hard to figure out how it may change in the future.
All right.
Thanks.
I'll jump back in the queue.
Thanks.
Just point of clarification I think Jim were you saying that the  there would be escalators in both the retransfer seats and the program payments and sort of widening dollar amount over this next several year period? Yes we definitely expect the gross revenue is going to increase very significantly beginning in 2015 as we reprise those five million subs at the end of this year.
We certainly have our  as weve talked about many times we'll be paid in reverse comp to CBS for the first time beginning in 2015 so the reverse comp expense number will accordingly be increasing.
But when we look at 2015 on a net basis when we take the gross retrans and subtract that to reverse comp we pay in the networks we definitely think we will be ahead of the $61 million net number we would have on a fully pro forma basis in 2014.
Now when you were talking about core local and national for next year national stable and local maybe a little ahead is that before allowing for the  that squeeze out phenomenon that  such that both of those numbers might be a little better when dont have the competition or political or is that factoring in the absence of political in those periods? I think it is  it's our initial thoughts as we're beginning our main cycle and our budgeting for 2015.
It may be a little bit conservative.
This  that cloud-out effect is always a little hard to judge between coming off a political cycle into a non-political cycle.
Youve got to balance the sheer inventory usage against the pricing dynamic as well though as I said the political especially the soft money.
It's a market rate and it's whatever rate will clear the market.
And certainly when we go back into a non-political cycle that super premium political rate isn't there and we're back to a very healthy rate on our core business but no were close to what a super pack would pay in a tight Senate race.
So there's some balancing there.
But we definitely  on the whole definitely would expect core business to be growing next year.
Okay.
And then since you had negotiations with all of the networks in a short period of time I'm curious if you could talk maybe not specifically but at least in some general characterization about whether there is a lot of consistency or is there a variance by network in terms of what you are willing to pay for the networks that are performing the best and versus what the expectations of the networks are on the other side factoring in the performance element from their standpoint.
Kevin do you want to maybe make some general color comments on that? I think Jim from my perspective and I'll let Kevin kind of jump in on top of me but I think any network we have dealt with has been certainly very professional in their conduct of the discussions.
But each one in turn  as we have worked with them and come through renewal cycles and keeping in mind that these are  while we've done all in the last 12-months they're all at slightly various different points in time each network in its own turn is reasonably aggressive in what they're asking for.
Yeah.
I don't  I would just second that all the conversations were I think people had -- in each case we went in with some expectations and they went in with some expectations and we talked about the specific markets the type of stations that Gray has in those markets.
What we deliver to the network what they deliver to us and we came up we obviously found value over lots of terms with the networks.
And you know in one case weve been adding an affiliation and we think we've been good partners with them.
I think that is -- it's probably allowed us to get all our affiliations done at once.
And so we don't have a bunch of sort of trailing dates on different affiliations.
Im not sure if I fully answered the question but Well just you know to the extent that each of them are fighting for their own market share of your ships and advertisers I wondered if it pays them to be in that stronger position relative -- and penalize them if they're not and then also is it the core programming or is it the spending you know pro sports or other unique items that really drive these discussions? I guess from our standpoint a station is affiliated with a network in our cases essentially all our stations have been affiliated with the current networks for a decade or more some since they signed on the air.
We don't get down into the granularity of whether you have a particular sports package or your dramas are doing particularly well.
We're interested in the overall package of programming rights that they're delivering to us.
I think all the networks have  are still providing us despite fluctuations from obviously season to season and book to book.
They're also providing us with the best programming available on television.
We still have the vast majority of best programming and most highly rated programming and television is coming from broadcast and we want to secure that.
We certainly would further they have more sports than they have; I think we've seen all the networks be fairly aggressive and trying to go after live sports.
I think that will continue certainly as a broadcast affiliates are becoming more partners and more contributing more to the networks.
I think we'll continue to see them be aggressive in acquiring sports rights which are helpful to both of us.
But on a sort of individual basis with so many affiliations with every network we're really not into sort of a granular conversation about types of programming that they have on there.
Jim this is Hilton.
Let me add one other thing just to your comments because my assumption is that you're looking to see if we're paying more to a network because they have higher rated shows on a gross basis.
And one of the things that I think our company is unique about is regardless of the networks which are very cyclical business in where they go whether they're number one or drop to number three or number four our individual stations have not been badly affected by that.
In general we stay if we're number one in that market we still stay number one in that market because we have a lot of stations in the market that's are appointment viewing.
So we enter the negotiations with the network from a different perspective and I respect their opinion that you know many of them think it's their programming and their live sports that drives the ratings.
We have data for 50-years that proves the reverse.
And so that's consequently one of the reasons we don't get into the granularity of it.
But we reached an agreement that we think with the network can live with and our company can live with.
I will say I don't personally have any issues with regard to our Group or any group paying reverse retransmission fees because I have a high degree of confidence with regard to the networks as they're currently owned and constituted.
But they're going to be using those proceeds to invest and programming that is non-transferable whether it's live sports or all the rest and from a broadcast standpoint the networks need to have a full participation to be able to compete with networks that may be on ESPN.
And so we are there and we're going to be good partners with the networks and we're going to negotiate and be good partners with the NBPDs but we are going on get fees for what we deliver and for the audiences that we deliver.
Okay.
Let me just add one more thing to this discussion.
The cable networks are generally jealous of the CPMs the broadcast networks can command.
And on the other hand the broadcast networks and you and the networks are sort of joined at the hip at this are jealous and would like to get more in terms of retrans as an alternative to affiliate comp.
So you're each on the opposite side of one of these issues.
Is there -- are we still at early stages in terms of what you think the retrans dollars and shares can be or has this last several years gotten you along the chain that they think you can get to? We think that it's going to be -- we think it's very significant growth over time and what the broadcast industry will be able to derive in retransmission fees going forward.
It's not -- its still -- to use the baseball analogy it's still in the relatively early innings of that growth in ultimate retrans fees.
All right.
Thanks.
The retrans dollars Jim are going to move to where the audiences are and there are still -- this is I think a data point that is true about how I think it's going to shift because there are cable networks that receive more in retrans and they have three viewers than some of the broadcast networks and the broadcast network affiliates.
And I think that that fact will come -- that will come to an end because retrans dollars are going to follow the audiences and I'm very proud of what the broadcast networks sort of across the board the quality that they have put on the air.
There was a period of time not too long ago where what we were putting on the air wasn't as good as it should have been.
But there is some brilliant shows in television today that command viewing left and right and the money is going to follow the viewers.
Thanks very much.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Jim not to mention you slice and dice EBITDA even more but could you provide LTM pro forma EBITDA? LTM -- this is the number I'm giving you is the broadcast cash flow less cash corporate expenses so if you look at our earnings release to the non-GAAP REC you can see what line item I'm pointing to.
But the LTM pro forma nine-month adjusted EBITDA would be 138.6.
You said that's the nine months? Yes.
You wanted a T 12? Right.
Right.
184.4.
184? And again that's the  that's the broadcast cash flow less cash corporate expenses quote adjusted EBITDA line that you see in the non-GAAP REC and the release which the non-GAAP REC and the releases and as reported number but those numbers I just gave you are fully pro forma.
Okay.
Understood.
Thank you.
And then you announced a new affiliation agreement with the CW and I think we're reasonably familiar with how the mechanics work with the big four if you will.
If you could walk us through how do the economics work with the network like the CW in terms of network compensation national local ad sales margin profile if you could maybe go into some of those details that would be great? Our CWs are profitable for us.
There is a modest reverse comp fee to CW but we're very comfortable with the level of that fee and the characteristic.
Keep in mind all but one of our CWs are running on digital second channels so we've been using our digital spectrum to leverage these additional program streams so they tend to be profitable because we're there obviously levering off of the core infrastructure of the primary station stream.
Understood.
Okay.
And I'm not sure if you touched on this in your prepared remarks I was a little late joining the incentive auction the FCC has put out their Green Hill report theres some opinion that these are very optimistic numbers and a lot of the small markets have some outlier valuations just curious what you are thinking on the incentive auction knowing it has been pushed back to 2016 so maybe it's too early to talk about? This is Kevin.
I think the headline from our perspective is it would be great if the auction were tomorrow.
One to be nice to remove the uncertainty but two I think it would help the broadcast landscape for companies like ours.
The Green Hill the numbers in the Green Hill report do little optimistic and a little aspirational if you will.
I think the important point is broadcast incentive auction is a reverse auction so if the FCC puts out a number that says they need one station in this market and the reserve price is $100 million you may have four or five stations in the market raise their hand for that number.
Then we'll go to a next auction another round and the price will be $75 million and maybe one of the broadcasters is successful enough and that's not attractive.
But the remaining broadcasters raise their hands.
We'll go to another auction another round another round another round until the number is so low that only one party finds it acceptable.
And that number may drop all the way down to $1 million before you find the guy in the market that is so weak that $1 million is a great payday for him.
So putting out these aspirational prices for some in the market it certainly was a good headline getter certainly has a lot of people thinking about the auction now but I don't see it actually leading to  we're not going to have multiple broadcasters in those markets cashing out at those prices.
We may have one broadcaster in some of our market.
May have multiple broadcasters in the larger markets taking the offer which will probably be a lot lower than will the reserve prices are.
The other  what it means for Gray in particular is we do have some weak competitors in our market.
And if they take the  if they leave the business as a result of the auction or otherwise that creates opportunities for those who are left not just on a day-to-day competition basis in the market but really on a programming basis.
So we have a particularly weak affiliate in our market and they decided to leave that affiliation and they are sticking programming contracts and other assets are going to be available in the market for somebody else.
So I think we will see in some of our markets as broadcasters leave we'll find some opportunities to I can about up some additional programming and further leverage our reach in those markets and our broadcast spectrums.
So that's why I go back to saying I wish the auction was tomorrow.
I would like to see what those opportunities are.
I would like to get this behind us and move forward.
Does that answer the question? Okay.
Yes it does.
That's very helpful.
And on the M&amp;A environment maybe ask sort of a two pronged question.
My first question really is actually about your cash on hand about 80 million at quarter end presumably you generated cash political revenue any thoughts around debt reduction versus M&amp;A? Well this is Hilton.
You know that is -- that's just a balancing act you know that we're going to be looking at and see where we stand between now and the end of the year.
Just in terms of your own individual management Tom most of our efforts between now and the end of the year are going to be focused on our retransmission consent negotiations.
We're always in talks with different people about acquisitions but we have been very careful and I think very prudent.
Each one of our acquisitions that we have done since we returned to the acquisition trail have been cash flow positive.
And there is recently a transaction with a station candidly we would have loved to have had.
But some of the initial price talks were far beyond what that station's cash flow justified and so Gray left because we have to -- we have to make sure that we look after our balance sheet.
Fortunately we have a very strong free cash flow out of our station group and all of the additions that we have added are adding to that.
And so we have had discussions with our board about stock repurchases versus further acquisitions and some of that is opportunistic.
So I can't give you a firm answer one way or another it depends on what comes along and what the prices are? But we're going to be very prudent and very careful in how we allocate our free cash flow going forward.
I will say this long-term Gray wants to return to being a dividend payer and then repurchasing its stock.
But the last year has been busy with us growing the scale of our business.
And any thoughts around debt reduction being part of that? Absolutely.
Yes absolutely.
Okay.
And I guess the second part of my question is you know if you're working at M&amp;A multiples out there and 2014 presumably would be a weaker political year versus 2016 when you have the open presidential seat do you think M&amp;A is sort of going to take a pause as we move towards that big political year in two-years? I think M&amp;A will continue the pace.
I do think that there are some expectations from buyers right now that have not yet renegotiated their reverse retransmission consent revenues or their fees to their networks.
And what their retrans are going to be.
Where an individual station's cash flow maybe looked at a different -- from different sets of eyes.
And I think that could lead to a slowdown in the ability to get deals done where you have buyers expectations and seller's expectations that just don't meet in between.
But I think that's the only thing that would slow it down.
All right.
Thank you very much gentlemen.
Appreciate it.
Thank you and good morning.
Just couple quick items.
Jim I think you said that CapEx would be around 30 million this year.
Yes.
So how much of that was kind of catch up with the newly acquired stations and what would it kind of look like on a normalized basis going forward? There's probably five to ten of CapEx and this would go all the way through to the yellow  what we refer to as the Yellowstone stations [indiscernible] that we picked up about a year ago through the you know hope was in pretty good shape SJL was in pretty good shape.
So I would say five to ten I think going forward as we look at '15.
We're not going to be at a $30 million run rate.
We're going to be at a you know whether it's 25 or maybe even lower than that it's definitely scaling back from the '14 rate.
And that -- you know we have if you go back you know in a political year with the extra cash from the political advertising it's a little easier to justify going a little higher and deliberately placing projects into political years.
So definitely we would scale back in '15 and then you know we'll see if we need to ramp it up a little bit in '16 but I don't think over the next couple years we necessarily need to be hitting $30 million a year on a consistent basis.
Great.
And with that in mind and with Davis' questions is there a target leverage that you feel you have to get to before you can consider returning meaningful cash to shareholders? I don't recall what the RPB is but what are the sort of guidelines or factors that go into those deliberations? We have technical capacity under both the senior credit agreement and the bond indenture for returns to shareholders.
And each document its a little different and in the metrics in the senior credit look at a trailing eight quarter blended average and the bond indenture looks at a trailing 12 month cash flow number.
But suffice to say that in each document there is technical ability to do some things.
As Hilton said it gets more to and I'm not trying to speak for the -- certainly for the Board but it gets more to a question of resource allocation as Hilton was speaking to a couple of minutes ago.
I don't think we necessarily have to have a specific target leverage to do something on that front.
Certainly as leverage comes down as we expect it will over the next couple of years there is -- it certainly is much easier to do those things but I don't think there's -- there is a hard and fast leverage number that creates a bright line trigger for us.
Great.
Thanks.
And maybe just the last area getting back to the election which was certainly intriguing and helpful for your stations.
With the Republicans taking control of the Senate does that change anything in your mind with regard to the regulatory outlook? Does viewer maybe act with a little bit lighter touch? Does it change the spectrum auction at all or outlook for combination stations in smaller markets? I'll start with that and Kevin may want to follow up with it.
But that is certainly our hope.
There has been a great deal of regulation that has been issued in the past.
And obviously the FCC has put a lot of new regulations and constraints upon the broadcast business but I don't think any of the broadcasters are in favor of we just learn to live with it.
Whether or not that changes or not will be yet to be seen.
But I'm certainly hopeful that things will be relaxed especially when you look at you know the size of some of the people that our industry is now competing with.
And so I hope that that is a result of last night's results.
We will see.
I would like to share one thing with you -- and we don't have the firm data on this yet but we will.
One of the things two-years ago that I spoke on one of these earnings calls following the presidential election year was we really felt like the Democrats had outplayed the Republicans in a dramatic fashion based upon the pattern that we saw the democratic party and the president's campaign and the democratic affiliated soft market players stepping up very very very early.
And if you just look at the results of our numbers so far in our first -- really our second and third quarters we've had pretty good political that came in and started on an earlier raise and obviously this is not a presidential election year race.
And in the past the great majority of the political that we received was in the fourth quarter which we have yet to report.
And so I continue to believe and I think every election cycle expands this that the window around which we will be receiving political advertising has increased dramatically from what it was historically.
And I think they're going to be necessary because in many of these states Colorado for instance we're pretty big in two of the 3D in that state advertising started very very very early.
And there's just only so much inventory that's left out there and it's a highly competitive sort of area.
And we're going to participate.
I think that's going to be very positive for all of the broadcasters.
Great.
Thanks for the color Hilton.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Just had a couple quick follow-ups.
Just talking about the spectrum option I think in previous calls you guys mentioned that you guys weren't interested in doing anything on your end relative to those auctions and I think you kind of referenced that you probably wouldn't be as much with the new numbers that have been out there from the pitch book.
Just wanted to clarify if that is still the case? And then my second question is regard to M&amp;A with those pitch books numbers out there in mind if you could maybe just give maybe a broader context on how that landscape changes with that.
Let me try to start and then Kevin let him finish.
But if you look at Gray and our company historically I think we have done better than any other broadcaster in the space in terms of using our spectrum.
And when the new regulations came about with regard to eliminating SSAs etcetera or JSAs we used spectrum to solve a lot of that.
And so you know from Gray's standpoint we would have to give up things that we're making money on to sell some of our spectrum.
What was your question on M&amp;A? Just with that in mind how does that change the M&amp;A landscape whether it's from your end from other people's end or from the buyer's from the seller's expectations' end? Well it doesn't have any impact on us.
I'm not sure what it has to do with regard to other folks because you have the spectrum speculators out there and if they can get more selling from spectrum than we can afford to buy to operate then they're obviously going to go that direction.
But we're in this business you know to be broadcasters and not spectrum speculators.
But if some of those crazy numbers come around we would certainly look at it for certain things that didn't put us out of business.
Kevin do you want to follow up with that in any regard? One point I might add is how we look at acquisitions is a little bit affected by the FCC approach on SSAs and JSAs.
By that I mean we're not particularly interested in moving and exploring an acquisition that has lots of SSAs and JSAs that would require a lot of restructuring and capital improvements and transitioning programming or waivers of the FCC.
If you look at the deal that's were announced a year ago that are only now starting to get approved or restructured and closed that's a year wasted of both parties and their employees with dealing with uncertainty in trying to find a way forward.
We were able to get our Hoak deal approved in the clean markets in a couple months and obviously restructure the rest of the transaction around JSAs and SSAs and it's a lot of work and while we were able to pull it off.
I don't think we're particularly interested in going on to the uncertain path of large number of JSAs and SSAs in company.
We've had I think much better success in finding some very very good stations that are operating without JSAs and SSAs and I go back to the SJL transaction which of course had not JSAs or SSAs.
And the day we announced that deal that we closed it was about eight weeks.
Actually may have been a little bit less than eight weeks.
That gives us -- gives the seller and certainly the employers vendors and networks a lot more certainty to know we can move quickly and start integrating the operations that we find so attractive.
So from our standpoint I would say you know to the extent that the new rules impact us it means we are certainly more interested in clean deals than messy deals.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yeah hi guys.
Thank you.
You signed a new deal with CBS you indicated previously and I don't remember the tenure of that reverse deal but -- and you may have fielded this earlier in the call and I apologize.
What are your thoughts regarding the prospects for near-term in 2015 2016 getting into a position where your net retrans is growing and particularly given less -- involvement and what he's projected in terms of how much the -- how much CBS will demand for their content and longer term what your -- what your views are on your ability to increase net retrans? Thank you very much.
Yeah going to recap that again first of all on a fully pro forma basis in 2014 our gross retrans number revenue number would be about 85 million.
We would have paid networks in reverse comp of about 24 million so our net number on a fully pro forma basis for 2014 is about $61 million.
When we look ahead to 2015 2016 2017 first of all we see significant growth in the gross retrans revenue numbers because we think there is significant room to continue to move up the fees from the MVPDs simply because of the sheer quantity of viewers we bring to the table to the MVPDs.
Certainly our reverse comp numbers in those years are going to be going up as well and certainly in 2015 we'll be paying CBS for the first time.
But in 2015 2016 and 2017 we still expect our net reverse comp number to be above that $61 million benchmark number pro forma for all acquisitions in 2014.
So that -- and I assume an attendance fee and increase in what your net retrans because as you say CBS the first year you're paying CBS in 2015 so I assume that that's the year sort of maximum squeeze and 2016 you would be able to go up as you negotiate more retrans deals and 2017 the trajectory is there.
Please remind me the tenure of the reverse how many years is the CBS deal? Our CBS deal is until August of 2018 August 31 our new NBC deal is to December of 2018.
Our FOX deal is out three-years.
Our ABCs are generally out until 2018.
And our new CW deal is also out until the end of -- until basically August of 2018 as well.
Actually one minor correction CBS deal goes out to August 31 2019 not 2018.
I'm sorry.
I stand corrected.
And your vision is that each year on a net basis you'll be increasing the amount of retrans net base--? Yes that's our current expectation.
Exactly what that will look like we really need to get through the repricing of the 5 million subs we have up at the end of this year and the other 900 000 add a couple points next year out of our total 9.5 million sub base to have clarity on what that will look like.
But we definitely expect it to increase in those years yes.
Okay.
And I'm sure you fielded this previously.
Regarding pacings for Q4 and specifically could you concentrate on the post-election period November December and how you're seeing core during that period? Core business post-election in November is certainly picked -- picking up and that's natural to see because it was badly crowded out in October and the first four days of November.
So we're pleased to see that and that's -- we expected that and it's occurring as we expected.
December is a bit of a ways out yet but with the trends we're seeing for December so far are encouraging.
Now exactly how the December retail season will break and the spending from the retailers is again little bit remains to be seen.
But were definitely seeing positive signs for the core business post the election cycle.
But unfortunately given the sheer magnitude of the political and the use of the inventory for the political in October and the first few days now in November it's still likely that our core business overall for the quarter could be down slightly just because -- like we said earlier in the call we're happy to trade tens of millions of political for a relatively small amount of core business.
Okay.
That's certainly helpful.
And your expectation for December as it stands your expectation for December in core business as we stand is that core will be up for the month of December? I know you gave us all the qualifications but just as we stand today.
Yes.
Okay.
That's great.
Thank you so much.
Well I want thank everyone for their time this morning for their support of our company and support of our industry.
Thank you.
If you have any other questions be sure and give us a ring.
And I look forward to speaking to each of you at our next scheduled earnings call next year.
Thank you operator.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day and welcome to the Gray Televisions Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Todays conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Hilton Howell President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you so much operator.
Good morning and thank you all for joining us as we discuss our record results for Gray Television in the fourth quarter and for all of 2014.
As usual joining me are Jim Ryan our Chief Financial Officer; and Kevin Latek our Senior Vice President for Business Affairs.
I hope that all of you have had the time this morning to peruse our 16 page press release issued this morning as we have enhanced our presentation with the results being presented on both an as-reported basis and a combined historical basis which we hope will give Grays achievements added clarity.
For 2014 we reported record revenue for both the fourth quarter and for the year.
These fantastic numbers were a result of both record results from our preexisting stations and record results from our newly acquired stations.
For the first time in our history our revenue exceeded $0.5 billion and our broadcast cash flow exceeded $200 million.
We repaid $70 million in debt in the fourth quarter.
We completed 10 acquisitions that added 23 market leading local news driven television stations to our portfolio.
These 23 remarkable institutions fit the Gray culture of local market dominance which we believe is the only way to superior financial performance that is of permanent value.
Our stations in our 44 markets really do have loads around them.
This local community focused attention to detail allowed our stations to report another all-time record of $82 million in political advertising revenue which on a total basis is as large or even larger than many of our peers and many of them who are much larger than we are.
Even more importantly on a per household basis Grays total political revenue is preeminent in the industry.
As part of the natural connection between the local substance of our stations and the need of the public servants who serve those markets to reach their voters.
It led our company to establish our new Gray Washington DC bureau.
This exciting new venture now fully operational in all 44 of our markets will have a hyper local focus and an intensely non-partisan lens on issues out of Washington that have a direct impact on our viewers our advertisers their businesses and our collective future.
Anchored by Jacqueline Policastro a veteran of both local news and Washington reporting our DC bureau has already put reports on the air with our local flags on the State of the Union address the veto of the Keystone pipeline new EPA regulations that affect the clean coal industry and the impact of the new executive order on immigration and all of its impacts.
While these stories are national in scope they have a deep impact on our local communities in Nebraska the Virginias and Texas.
Coupled with the depth of our local coverage of state politics our stations will only enhance their position as the must-buy station in every political contest in each of our 44 markets.
Gray will be unique as we look forward to 2016 a presidential election year without an incumbent an almost unlimited window for political advertising spending due to the expansion of election day to an election month or months as each state may decide and the first amendment right of advertisers to reach voters.
2014 also saw Gray complete the broadcasting equivalent of a Hail Mary pass whereby we renewed each and every one of our networks nationwide for long term contracts.
While at the same time completing the renegotiation of new retransmission agreements with all of our MVPD partners allowing Gray to announce firm numbers today on the biggest question many of you have on our industry going forward and that is how much station groups well retain in the retransmission reverse compensation fight? That question is no longer an issue for Gray Television.
2014 also produced record digital media revenue with digital revenue hitting a record of $28.2 million.
Our proprietary MomsEveryday digital vertical is now fully deployed in each of our 44 markets and were now offering it to other non-competitive markets nationwide.
And something that we found out at our recent general managers meeting that were exceptionally proud of based on a recent study we conducted with SmithGeiger our local websites in our markets are the number one news sites outpacing Yahoo and all network news sites and only beaten by Facebook Google YouTube and Weather.com.
That I think is an amazing confirmed fact for Gray Television its shareholders and our viewers.
With that I will bring my comments to a close and turn it over to Kevin Latek who will discuss more news that we made this morning.
Kevin? Thank you Hilton.
Were all part of the achievements to milestones that marked 2014 and it allowed us to announce such good news today.
This morning I will address a few points quickly before turning this over to Jim Ryan for his remarks.
But first to state the obvious.
2014 was a year marked by significant deal activity for Gray Television.
Three of our announced transactions Hoak Prime Cities and Lockwood required complicated restructurings in the first half of the year to respond to changing FCC policies.
At the end of the day however we secured regulatory approvals for these restructured transactions in 120 days or less and we obtained regulatory approvals for the Flint and Toledo acquisitions in less than 40 days.
These quick grants allowed us to close on all of our announced transactions on or before our original target dates and in any event before we opened our major retransmission negotiation cycle.
That leads to my second topic our just completed retransmission cycle.
We had approximately 250 separate retransmission consent agreements expiring in December 31st 2014 representing 5 million big four affiliate subscribers out of a total of approximately 9.6 million big four affiliate subscribers.
On our earnings call in early November I said we expect the good faith efforts on both sides of these negotiations will result in fluid and timely renewals of all retrans contracts this year and Im pleased to report that we achieved that goal.
In particular we began and concluded all retrans negotiations between October 2014 and the first few weeks of January 2015.
We do not have any open negotiations at this time and we do not have any material retrans agreements expiring until the end of this year.
Importantly the newly negotiated retrains agreements confirm that the high quality of Grays station portfolio confers ample scale to secure fair compensation for the value that our very strong local stations provide to our MVPD partners.
Specifically we project that our retransmission revenue will increase from $85 million in 2014 to between $145 million and $148 million in 2015 on an as-reported basis.
That works out to a year over year increase of between approximately 94% and 98%.
Were very pleased with those results  Like our retrans agreements we believe that our network affiliation agreements reflect relatively favorable terms for us due to the very strong portfolio of local network affiliate stations that Gray owns and operates.
By renewing and extending nearly all of our big four network affiliation agreements in 2014 we now have a measurable visibility into our network affiliation expense for the next few years.
This time we project that our very successful retrans renewal renegotiations and our favorable network affiliation renewals will result in a network affiliation expense that approximates 50% of our retransmission revenue in 2015 2016 and 2017.
With regards to networks Im also able to provide a good update on our mobile efforts.
This morning NBC and Gray issued a joint press release announcing that we have entered into an agreement that will expand NBCUniversal's TV Everywhere offering of local NBC linear streams beyond the NBC-owned stations to affiliated stations for the first time.
This new agreement enables us to include the live linear streams of our 24 NBC affiliated television stations including NBC network and local programming as part of NBC's TV Everywhere mobile and online platforms.
We have also obtained TV Everywhere rights on the FOX network.
And while we have relatively few FOX affiliates and theyre generally located in our smallest markets we are working to launch those FOX stations channels in our TV Everywhere platform in the near future.
Separately we are optimistic that CBS and the affiliates will soon conclude an agreement that allows us to launch our CBS affiliated stations in that network over the top product CBS All Access.
Unlike a TV Everywhere platform CBS All Access targets broadband only customers.
We agree with CBS that broadcasters need to do a better job of bringing those consumers into the broadcast television ecosystem.
For that reason we are already readying our CBS affiliates to launch an All Access product fairly soon after the agreement is finalized.
Finally another topic of great interest to us the industry and you is the upcoming FCC incentive option for broadcast spectrum.
Like everyone else in the TV industry we have studied the two reports from Greenhill that the FCC released in recent months that estimates spectrum values and those in many cases are surprisingly high.
Weve also studied the FCCs repacking analysis in some depth and those indicate that the FCC has little need to clear one or more TV stations in many of the Gray markets.
We do not rule out participation in a spectrum auction where participating would make economic sense.
Nevertheless we do not foresee many if any actual opportunities for Grey to surrender some or all of the station spectrums for a price that exceeds the stations value as an operating entity.
Rather the opportunities that may be presented to Gray by the spectrum option will be business opportunities to acquire programming revenue streams and talent from competitors who do choose to exit the business via the auction.
For that reason we are eager for the FCC to commence and conclude the spectrum auction because we are as always working to grow Gray Televisions vertical scale within our local markets.
This concludes my remarks today.
Ill turn the call now to Jim Ryan our CFO.
Thanks Kevin and Hilton.
Good morning everyone.
First of all I want to let everybody know that we expect that well be filing our 10-K later today.
So it should be available later this afternoon.
Weve also filed an 8-K this morning with the press release in it but as important that 8-K that we filed this morning also contains an updated investor presentation with our 2014 results.
That investor presentation will also be available on our website as well at www.gray.tv.
Im going to keep my comments relatively brief and as far as the P&amp;L goes Im going to focus it on the combined historical information because I think thats giving the best view of the company on a go-forward basis.
Again the combined historical just takes our as-reported results and also the historical results of the stations we acquired during the relevant period before we had acquired them.
For the fourth quarter again we were very pleased with our revenue growth.
It was a little bit more than we had expected.
As we talked about on our Q3 call because of the massive amount of political $48.5 million in the quarter on a combined historical basis we did expect our local and national revenues to be down slightly and they were.
Local was only down 1% which is actually better than we had thought and national was only down 2% again better than we thought.
We did see -- weve seen a crowding out effect year cycle after cycle with political advertising.
But we were very encouraged that once the elections were over the local and national numbers for later November and December certainly came back up very strongly.
So were very pleased with the core revenue profile within fourth quarter.
Our operating expenses for the quarter were up but really a lot of that was driven by a couple of big-ticket items.
Certainly the increasing reverse comp to the networks especially with ABC FOX in 2014 as well as national sales rep commission.
Political revenue also drove up the expenses a little bit in Q4.
Looking on a full year basis again on a combined historical we were pleased to see that local was in positive territory as we expected.
We had strong growth year over year of about 21% with a record political in a non-presidential year of $85.5 million.
We think that record in a non-presidential year speaks very well for 2016.
Please keep in mind that in 2012 on a combined historical basis we did $118 million and we would certainly think 2016 will be above the 2012 number.
On an expense basis again if we filter for the increased reverse comp especially their ABC payment started in 2014 as weve talked about many times over the last several calls.
Our non-cash charge for our change in paid time off and the national sales reps commission on the political really if you peel back to one time only your odd things for the year because the political cycle are what I would call our core revenue on a combined --- our core expense on a combined historical basis really only grew about 1.8% and were very happy about that.
Weve been working hard on the expense side.
Focusing on the balance sheet for a moment at the end of the year our leverage ratio as defined in our senior credit agreement was at 6x.
That was down from Q3 as we expected.
As Hilton already mentioned we paid down $70 million of debt in Q4.
Total debt outstanding at the end of the quarter was $1.23 billion and that was $556 million of our senior credit facility and $675 million of our senior notes.
On a trailing eight quarter basis as defined in the credit facility our operating cash flow was $203.4 million again with a leverage ratio of 6x.
Our CapEx for the year was $32 million.
Obviously political years as youve seen before we tend to go a little heavier.
My expectation going into 2015 currently is that our CapEx run rate would scale down to somewhere between $20 million and $25 million with 2015 being a non-political year.
Combined historical programing payments for the year was $19.9 million.
The combined historical programing amortization was $17.7 million.
As weve talked about already our re transmission revenue for the quarter and the year was very strong and weve set forth our expectations for not only 2015 but 2016 and 2017.
In the earnings release you can see that with having renegotiated to 5 million subs at the end of this year we have 900 000 more subs up at the end of this year the end of 2015.
Another 3.6 million subs at the end of 2016 going into 2017 so making some modest assumptions for where we think the pricing will be in 2016 going into 2017.
Again from the release you can see that were expecting very strong growth in gross retrans revenue over the next three years.
Page 14 of our investor presentation that we have filed and posted has those numbers set out.
What it says is that again our net retrans is going to grow significantly not only in 2015 at about $78 million but consistent strong sequential growth in 2016 and 2017 as well and were delighted about that.
Very briefly on first quarter guidance.
I want to remind everybody that the revenue expectations for local and national in the first quarter you need to keep in mind that were going against more than $3.8 million of Olympic revenue from last year that just doesnt exist this year and that $3.8 million was as-reported number.
Obviously a full combined historical number would be a little bit higher.
So our first quarter actually based on our guidance is really where we expect it to be in first quarter and we would expect that the core revenue will -- core local and national will grow at a little bit faster rate as we move through the remaining three quarters of the year with probably the fastest year over year growth as you could imagine and would expect would be in Q4 when were obviously refilling the political displacement with core local and national later in the year.
With that Ill conclude my remarks and turn it back to you Hilton.
Thank you very much Jim.
Operator well now open up for any questions.
[Operator Instructions] Well go first to Aaron Watts of Deutsche Bank.
Morning guys.
Let me start by thanking you for the disclosure.
It really is best in class and very helpful.
Just a couple of questions for me.
I guess on the ad environment it seems like you had a little bit of a step up in local is what youre seeing in the first quarter versus the fourth.
I guess with the recent job reports and cheap gas putting more cash in peoples pockets whats feeling better as you look at 1Q and 2Q and maybe whats lagging at this point? You want to take that Jim? The auto seems to be going well for us right now.
I think again filtering a little bit for the political displacement which clouds Q4.
I think a lot of what we have seen late last year with auto and medical and -- bear with me Aaron.
Im trying to get the right cheat sheet.
The restaurant category was up.
I think that is probably reflective of the cheaper gas and people having a little bit more money in their pockets.
So I think in general what were seeing so far Q1 and Q2 is just in general no big red flags and things are kind of going along.
Id say the word okay and I mean that in a positive way not hyper increases or hyper hot but very solid.
And it just came up at general managers meeting a week ago and really the tone from the managers was very positive.
And again people were expecting and saying that so far things were looking pretty good as the year got started.
Okay thats helpful.
On the TV Everywhere agreement I apologize if I missed this but was this kind of wrapped into your affiliate agreement with NBC or was there -- is there some sort of compensation or upside for you in participating in that? Kevin you want to take that? The NBC TV Everywhere agreement is frankly its a technical document as to how were going to interact how well deliver our signal and how our signal will appear on their apps.
There is not -- the upside to us is reaching our consumers in different ways and being part of what we think is a new move to mobile simulcast.
I can't comment on the terms specifically but the upside for us is getting our signals in front of more folks and transitioning in some ways to a more mobile environment.
Okay got it.
The last one for me just housekeeping for Jim.
I will probably see this when you file the K but did you pay down around $70 million of debt in the quarter and does that remain a priority for you of cash generation as you move through 2015? Thanks.
Yes we did pay down approximately $70 million during the quarter.
Obviously we will generate a lot of free cash in 2015 and a whole lot more free cash in 2016.
You can see that from the metrics the free cash flow metrics on page 2 of the release.
Certainly our general expectations for 2015 would be probably a little bit higher than 20134 and 2016 is going to be a better year than 2012.
So everybody can decide what those years look like for themselves but certainly we think the next 2015 and 2016 are strong.
So a lot of free cash flow generation.
I think as weve talked before and Hilton may or Kevin may want to weigh in a little bit on this but certainly in the right circumstances we are still willing to be and wanting to be and desiring to be acquisitive.
As weve talked about were going to be mindful of our leverage in doing that.
We also want strong market leading stations that are not necessarily available on any given day.
Those of you that have followed the company for a long time know that for that type of station sometimes those conversations go on for -- quiet conversations can go on literally for years before a seller gest serious.
So its difficult to predict the exact timing.
But certainly reducing debt and using free cash to help manage our leverage is a very high priority.
And then obviously as acquisition opportunities present themselves where it makes sense and where it fits our profile Im certain well probably take --- well take a hard look and be very thoughtful about what we can do when we can do it and what it means to our leverage going forward.
Thank you very much.
Well go next to Jim Goss of Barrington Research.
A little bit more on the advertising climate.
You mentioned local down 1% national down 2% better than expected.
Although I think the local progress seemed was especially good though you also mentioned in the context of your press release the crowding out effect on automotive medical communications furniture and appliances in particular.
Im just wondering if you might put a little more color around how much of that you think you get back or are there reasons certain categories seem to be displaced more than others? It might be useful just in looking at the potential progress this year.
Yeah.
I think first of all auto gets displaced because the auto advertisers love the newscast just like the politicians do.
I think the displacements youre seeing in like communications and furniture and appliances tends to be more of a pricing thing where we go to displace somebody obviously were looking for the lowest rates to take out and try to maintain as much of the higher placed rates as we can where the difference with the auto guys is that they tend since they have seen the cycles so much and are very aware of it they tend to be more on the sidelines and other categories will tend to place and take their chances on preempts.
Weve seen that cycle every strong political season and we think again that were off -- the year has started to our expectations.
Weve got a lot of Olympics to go against in Q1 and the numbers were seeing so far for Q2 and certainly our expectations for the rest of the year as I said we would expect core local and national to be growing at a higher rate as we move through the year.
Jim is the automotive the local automotive more or of a national spot variety? And does national spot get booked as a national ad or a local ad? National spot auto would get booked as national.
Local gets booked as local.
Okay.
So those are the local dealers.
Go ahead.
Let me just mention one thing.
Jim mentioned it in his comments earlier.
We just completed a little about two weeks ago our general managers meeting.
A lot of advertising in my judgment is animal spirits just about how they feel about the economy how they feel about the future.
Almost to a man and woman in that group there was a feeling of great optimism about the core business and great optimism about first quarter second quarter and 2015 huge optimism about 2016.
And so we can look at pacings and Jim is very assiduous with his numbers and his guidance but I feel very comfortable with the spirit that people feel in the local markets.
And so Ive got a lot of confidence about this year.
Okay great.
Just a couple of other quick things.
The unwinding of the shared services agreements didn't really affect that many situations is that correct and 0is there any impact from those? Thats correct.
No.
there was a handful of situations and economically it had no impact on us.
Matter of fact in the big picture were ever so slightly better of having been able to unwind those the way we did.
Okay.
And with the 6 times leverage is that about at what you think is a decent targeted level or are you trying to push that lower as well? We certainly would like to see the leverage come down.
I think as we think through the rest of this year that acts in some really large transaction which I have no idea I have no ability to predict whatsoever.
But you could see leverage down well into the middle fives I would think.
If youre devoting all your free cash to debt reduction you get another very large reduction in leverage as we get to the end of 2016 and 100 [indiscernible] and 20 plus million pick the number.
Its going to be a big number of political rolls in.
as we talked about in our Q3 call when our leverage was more like 625 630 we said it was towards the higher end of our range but we didnt think it was unmanageable.
Its 6x times heading down well into the fives and lower than that over the next between now and the end of 2016 were comfortable with the glide slope were on.
Thanks very much.
Well go next to Lance Vitanza of CRT Capital.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Its actually Brad in for Lance.
Just on the spectrum auction I know you guys mentioned earlier that you are likely not going to be a meaningful participant.
We are wondering if you can give us any more color sort of on the reasoning why not? Is it just a question of valuation? Is it valuation and technical issues if you were trying to broadcast with less spectrum? Just any other color you guys could provide on that would be very helpful.
This is Kevin.
Ill take that.
The first answer is that most of our markets are not markets where theres a great need for spectrum.
So while the Greenhill report may suggest that there are bids of $2 million or $5 million or $20 million for a station in the market when you go back and look at the FCCs repacking analysis which is where they ran 100 different scenarios of how to repack the broadcast spectrum you find that zero out of 100 or maybe 1 out of 100 times they actually need a TV station in many of our markets.
So the numbers are really hard to tie with the fact that the FCC just doesnt need a lot of stations in Casper any stations in Casper Wyoming for example.
So thats one.
Secondly if the numbers are there to clear one station in the market there are weaker competitors in every market that were in.
so the number that it would take for us to justify leaving is going to be much higher than one that would take for somebody else in the market for leave.
So for example if the opening bid is $100 million for a TV station in one of our markets we might be interested in saying okay well consider putting -- well put our station in for $100 million but five other broadcasters put a bid in for $100 million.
So the next bid might be $50 million.
Thats no longer interesting to us and maybe one or two other broadcasters.
So we dont participate.
A couple of others do and so then the bid goes down to $20 million clearly not a number we would take but maybe somebody one or two people in our market do.
And the bid goes down to $5 million and a weak station thats off the air goes hey thats a number I can take.
$5 million is just not a value that we would find attractive for that station.
So the fact that its reverse auction and the fact that our markets are not typically the large markets and close to borders and the fact that we in almost every market are running the number one or number two TV station means that we have a higher going concern value on the stations than other people.
So its really a combination of those factors.
Again the spectrum is a net positive for us.
We think there will be people who will leave in our markets.
Either during the auction or after the auction theyve realized they didnt find much value in the auction and that will create opportunities for us to pick up as I said programing revenue streams talent from stations that do go away.
So its a good opportunity for us and were eager for it to come to get started and get concluded.
Thanks guys.
I appreciate the color.
Well go next to Barry Lucas of Gabelli &amp; Company.
Thanks and good morning.
Two areas if we could Hilton.
Maybe come back to the M&amp;A issue and certainly understand the parameters that Gray has worked under over the years.
But could you talk a little bit about what you think the pipeline looks like and whether or not potential sellers are waiting for more clarity in the way that Kevin just described so that the auction is keeping properties you might like to have off the market.
Barry I will say we dont have anything to announce today but we have been in active negotiation with a number of sellers.
We hope that well be able to bring something to fruition relatively soon.
I have no doubt that to some degree the uncertainty not just the reverse compensation but of the whole retrains negotiation coupled with the auction it adds a lot of lack of clarity into the M&amp;A process.
That being said I dont think that it in any way inhibits it.
Theres some things that need to become more clear but in the markets that we focus on we dont see it as an obstacle.
The main issue that you will see us and we continue to reiterate this is we are looking for stations whether theyre a group of stations or individual stations in markets that are truly culturally news institutions and or ways that we can add news distribution and entertainment and full broadcast spectrum in a vertical market that were already airing.
And so we are fully engaged in the M&amp;A process and we think well have something to you soon.
Kevin you can add.
Just in terms of color this past fall I think it was pretty safe to say that there were not a lot of conversations about transactions because of the uncertainty surrounding networks surrounding retrans.
Obviously political was keeping a lot of folks interested in retaining ownership of the stations.
Weve gotten past all of those.
I think most broadcasters have a pretty good sense at this point of what the retrans their network their core their political prospects are going forward.
Some folks are reevaluating their future in light of those.
The folks who are most interested in participating in the auction are probably not people who have assets that Gray would be interested in acquiring.
Rather I think the more typical Gray seller is somebody who runs a great station and views Gray as somebody who could take a station to the next level by bringing in some additional economies of scale.
The Washington bureau for example is something that Gray can afford to do but probably not a single station in a small market on its own.
So we think that there are sellers out there that are attracted to the kind of company that Gray runs and if theyre the right kind of station thats something that we would want to talk to.
So the overall color would be theres really nothing happening in the fall and I think we finish the year and finish political finis the retrans cycle a lot of folks are giving a longer are giving some thought to the longer term future.
Thanks for that.
If we could stay on the -- yes I am sorry? Just one thing I want to mention.
Jim went through all the different things that were going to be posting today.
Theres one additional thing.
Im sorry that Im in it but by the end of the day today we will have our corporate video that was put together for our TV station group and our general managers meeting and it gives a lot of examples of what that DC bureau is doing.
I think you will find it to be pretty compelling.
And so once it is posted under the About Us section of our website I encourage you to take a look at it.
Thanks.
I'll look forward to that Hilton.
If we just continue on this sort of capital allocation theme and bearing in mind the M&amp;A comments as well as Jim's comments on leverage at what point do you think it would be appropriate to consider returning cash to shareholders? I guess I will start with that.
That is something that we weigh every day.
In the immediate future I think that allocating our assets to continuing to grow the scope and scale of Gray is in the best interest of our shareholders.
But in time as we continue to increase the amount of free cash flow that this company generates which Im very proud of our track record over the last couple of years in doing that then we weigh and our board weighs really every day and every quarter issues about returning to paying dividends and to stock repurchase programs.
I know that a lot of our peers have those in place and were very conscious about that.
But right now we actually really do have some opportunities and we need to take those while theyre available.
And so well just have to weigh that and see what happens but I hope to be able to do that in the shorter term versus in the longer term.
Great.
Last area for me coming back to the spectrum issue and your description of let's say less necessity to clear that spectrum for the FCC.
Again some of your peers have been a little bit more aggressive in talking about ATSC 3.0 and utilizing that spectrum internally for data distribution or what have you.
Would those comments that youve made tend to suggest that the opportunity to utilize the spectrum internally is maybe less in the Gray markets than it is for some others with larger market stations? Let me start with that.
I think actually if you look at Gray I think that were a -- we use our spectrum in a remarkably efficient way.
We have effective duopolies.
Theyre using spectrum in many many of our markets.
And so I think that we use and that we are monetizing our spectrum as we speak.
It is not to say that all of our markets have no spectrum value.
We have many many markets that are very close to very densely populated markets that bleed over value of the spectrum will be there and so well look at it.
As Kevin mentioned our stations are institutions in their markets.
And so it would take a truly remarkable price for Gray to be very interested.
Now Ill say with regard to the new broadcasting standard we have mentioned this in the past and Kevin you may want to elaborate on that but obviously David Smith has been pushing that and I think hes spot on.
Gray has filed legal briefs in support of that shift and we have taken a public stance in every industry meeting whether it be the NAV or the Small Market Television Exchange in favor of that shift.
And so while we may not talk about it every day we are clearly behind that transition.
Great.
Thanks very much for that Hilton.
Well go next to David Hebert of Wells Fargo Securities.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Jim around your leverage comments just curious your bonds become callable later this year and if you were to decide to call those either this year or next year would that be a purely economic decision or are you focused on perhaps a little more covenant flexibility now that you are a larger sized company? Just curious how you are thinking about those bonds? I think one were in a very good positon in that we because of the structure we have and all the long term maturities weve got the best of both worlds.
We dont really need to do anything.
In a current structure I think with the call date coming up certainly there is very strong economic factor there and that will depend on the math as that gets closer.
I would certainly think if we -- Ive seen some other issuances of bonds latter part of last year.
I think the market right now is certainly taking more covenant friendly packages from strong broadcasters with excellent cash flow characteristics like us.
Certainly if we went to do anything in the future I would certainly be looking to improve the covenant package as much as possible.
But I think first and foremost would probably be just the economics of it and does it make sense or not.
Now certainly if and again Im not predicting anything at all but if over the course of the next year or so we have an opportunity to acquire one or more stations in slightly larger transactions certainly again that might come into play as to how we would view the bonds and call rights and how we would want to restructure the debt structure on a go-forward basis.
But the simple answer is well have to wait and see what the math says a little later this year and see what makes sense.
Okay that is helpful.
And on the NBC deal just curious your thoughts around measurements where we are today and how far the gap of where we need to be on the measurement front from your standpoint? Ill just mention briefly.
I made the comments in my opening remarks about the study that was done by SmithGeiger for us.
We knew we were good.
We didnt realize we were as good as they were able to actually prove with regards to our websites.
I am personally extremely excited about Grays participation with NBC and TV Everywhere because it is clear that our stations in particular have to be the dominant player on every screen in every market were in.
and so the broadcasting industry has to be out there and we are.
Weve got apps out in every one of our markets that are market leading and we were one of the very first pioneers in that regard.
But it is very important to clear actual the ability to see television live in every screen and we are excited about that stuff.
Kevin do you have anything you want to add to that? No.
I think youve got that covered well.
Okay.
And then last one for me Kevin maybe you can shed some light on this.
On the spectrum auction the wireless carriers two of them at least are perhaps looking to push this thing back into late 2016 at least thats what we are hearing.
Do you think theres any reason we can expect a delay from the broadcaster side? Just curious your thoughts on that.
The decision to delay is obviously the FCCs decision not broadcasters or carriers.
Theres still an important legal challenge and theres still a number of FCC rule makings that have to be completed some of which were on target to be done last summer and were still waiting for them.
So I think it is an administrative push to get the auction started early 2016.
Theres just a lot of pieces have to fall into place.
I dont think its impossible but given how quickly Washington typically works it might be safer to assume that it might be a little bit beyond early 2016 before it can get started.
Ive not heard any definitive decision or leaning of the FCC about delaying it but the factors may suggest a slight delay.
Okay fair enough.
Thank you very much.
Well go next to John Hall of Wells Fargo Securities.
Hey guys great quarter and really loving all the color you guys give by the way.
I just have a few questions I wanted to ask here.
When you guys talk about your 9.6 million of big four subs does that include your digital subs as well? Yes it does.
That 9.6 million is the total number of big four subs we are paid on.
So if we have a CBS and a FOX or an NBC and an ABC or whatever the combination is if were getting paid -- we do get paid for both and thats how we come up with the 9.6.
Okay perfect.
Now based on the number if I try to back into the actual retrans rate you guys are getting paid based on your guidance it actually looks like you are doing much better on a rate basis that some of the other larger broadcasters who renewed contracts at year end 2014.
Can you maybe hone into what you think is driving that strength there? Ill start and I think Kevin can probably add a lot more color.
But I think first and foremost its the depth within the markets that we have that allowed us to have some very serious conversations with even the biggest MVPDs.
Its one thing to go to an MVPD and say hey Ive got 40 markets up and its a mixture of some really good stations and some not so really good stations.
But we were in a position to be able to go to the MVPDs and say Ive got 20 markets up and by the way 18 of them are market leading number one news stations.
Now Im obviously using it as an example.
Dont hold me o the exact numbers but the basic point is that it gets the MVPDs attention because they understand they really dont want that problem in those markets if we cant come to some reasonable conclusion as to what the rate ought to be.
I think that helps us.
I think having using our spectrum very efficiently and having as many dual big fours as we do also helps us a lot.
Then we go for the best rate we can.
Kevin youre in the thick of that so you may have some other comments.
Jim is spot on.
Everybody says their children are above average.
I think Ray alone is able to demonstrate that almost all of our children actually are by using Rentrak Nielsen or any other measure people want to look at.
Ive not done an average rough calculation for us versus anybody else or even just for us.
But the characterization that our rates may be a bit higher than you would expect or that others may have expected would at least be consistent with the comments we heard consistently from the MVPDs about our rates being in new territory for them which is perfectly fine with us because again were bringing to the table a portfolio of stations and value that theyre not getting from others whether theyre cable networks or broadcasters.
So were obviously very pleased with the way it worked out.
We have said on calls since I began here three years ago Gray does not think that scale for us means we need to be in 30% or 40% of the US and we probably never will be in 30% to 40% of the US but we do think that scale for us means vertical depth and thats the way we will succeed.
I think this retrans cycle and our recent network affiliation cycle has proven that the strategy is working.
Okay perfect.
And then back to spectrum for a moment.
Kevin you mentioned the business opportunities of potentially picking up programming revenue streams.
Correct me if I am wrong but I think you are actually using most of the bandwidth on your current license via D2s.
So is it really just a matter of swapping a non-big four for a big four given that it wouldn't be a license transfer and wouldn't trigger ownership rules? Maybe can you detail for us exactly what those affiliation opportunities are going to look like? Youre right.
Weve been pretty aggressive about using our spectrum to put on a second big four where available or something CW MeTV other products that we think will do well in the marketplace that obviously have a very positive ROI.
So in some cases we are sort of bandwidth constrained and something would have to go and those are very difficult decisions and very difficult conversations to have but economically you cant turn away an opportunity.
This is not spectrum related but recent -- last year we launched an ABC in Laredo Texas where we had an NBC station and on the digital channels that had a Telemundo and a CW.
And unfortunately we looked at the landscape and had to have a difficult evaluation of our opportunities and we decided that NBC ABC Telemundo was a better combination that ABC Telemundo and CW.
And so we negotiated to end the CW affiliation early and added ABC.
And so we will confront that opportunity that challenge in a couple of other markets if these opportunities arise.
There may also be opportunities in some markets to pick up the low power TV stations or perhaps even some smaller satellite stations that are not being used properly or efficiently and use those as homes for some of the programing.
So we may have to acquire some weaker signals in the market that will survive the auction for the spectrum space.
In other cases we may need to have these difficult conversations that you mentioned.
Okay.
Last one for me Jim it will probably be in the K later today but can you remind us what your NOL balance is as of yearend 2014? Thanks.
Our NOL balance at the end of 2014 was approximately $160 million.
Perfect.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Well go next to Mike Johnson of RBC Capital Markets.
Hey guys thanks for taking the question.
Just a quick one on the TV Everywhere.
Should we be expecting some incremental costs coming in here as you guys package these streams for the new OTT products? Maybe not just the NBC but as you look to do the deals with the other networks? This is Kevin.
At this point our projections are that theres an immaterial additional cost and we are hopeful theres a little immaterial additional revenue.
So overall we think that this TV Everywhere plan will be generally revenue neutral for us in the near term and obviously we consider this an investment where the payoff is not for maybe the two year timeframe but a little further down the road.
Great.
Thanks.
That is all I had.
There are no further questions at this time.
Operator thank you for that.
I just want to take just a brief moment to thank everyone on this call for your attention and for joining us this morning.
We really are excited about the opportunities and we love this business and I hope that shows.
.
Thank you for being here and well talk to you next quarter.
Thank you for your participation.
That does conclude todays conference.
Good day and welcome to the Gray Television's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Hilton Howell President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and welcome to the first quarter 2015 earnings call for Gray Television.
I want to thank all of you for joining us.
As usual on the call with me are Jim Ryan our Chief Financial Officer and Kevin Latek our Senior Vice President for Business Affairs.
We will each have a few brief comments to follow up on our press release that we put out this morning after which we will take questions that you may have.
Obviously we are extremely pleased with our results this quarter.
As we laid out in this morning's press release Gray reported record first quarter revenue record broadcast cash flow record net income record retransmission consent revenue we completed a successful secondary equity offering which leaves us with close to $0.25 billion in cash in the bank which effectively reduces our leverage and frees up dry powder to grow our Company.
We announced two acquisitions the CBS and Fox stations in Twin Falls Idaho and a CBS Fox affiliates in Presque Maine.
We expect to close on these transactions in the third quarter.
We also launched NBC Universal's TV Everywhere offering of local NBC linear streams on our 24 NBC affiliated stations.
And on April 22 we announced that we have launched five of our CBS stations on CBS All Access expanding this new subscription video on-demand and live streaming service to mid-sized college markets for the first-time ever.
Our record revenue this quarter hit $133.3 million increasing by $42 million or 46% over the first quarter of 2014.
We reported $0.10 per outstanding share in net income and achieved free cash flow of $0.37 per share for the quarter.
We quite simply could not be happier with our results and with that I'll turn it over to Kevin Latek.
Thank you Hilton.
Just like our last few earnings call we are proud of the financial results we announced today.
I wish to take a few moments to address a few other results as well as the opportunities ahead.
First as Hilton mentioned we announced two high-quality acquisitions in recent weeks; March 12 we announced the Twin Falls CBS and Fox and on April 23 the CBS and Fox in Presque Maine.
Both cases we will be acquiring dominant legacy television stations that perform exceptionally well by every measure.
We are honored to be entrusted with these local institutions.
Both acquisitions are on target for closing as soon as July.
Both transactions should be immediately cash flow accretive.
Second you will recall that on the day of our last earnings we announced that Gray had become the first affiliate group to enter into a TV Everywhere agreement with NBC.
And as Hilton mentioned and our press release reiterated on April 22 we announced we had also launched five of our CBS affiliated stations on CBS All Access CBS's subscription video-on-demand and live streaming service.
Gray's launch of the CBS product expands the Direct-to-Consumer service for the first time in a mid-sized market including four university cities.
We are excited to partner with both of our major networks on their digital streaming initiatives and to do so simultaneously and quickly.
We do not know whether the preferred approach to mobile delivery of consumers will be TV Everywhere or Direct-to-Consumer or some combination of both.
Still it is important for Gray that we explore both of these approaches with our network partners and learn with them what works best in mid-size and small markets that we serve.
Finally as you now our successful equity offering in late March has provided with significant capacity to pursue additional accretive transactions in the near to medium term.
Before and since that offering we have been engaged in a number of discussions with owners and operators of high-quality television stations that both match our culture and offer opportunities for growth.
No transaction however is imminent today.
In part that's because we intend to maintain our commitment to growing the Company in a prudent manner.
As our investors all know Gray has been built over the past two decades with careful patient and opportunistic transactions.
Consequently a number of times in recent months we have made a difficult decision to end our efforts to acquire high-quality television stations when valuations exceeded the prudent levels that we believe are appropriate for our Company.
Thus despite our increased bandwidth to make deals we're not going to just spend the additional capital recklessly for the sake of increased sale.
Once again it is quality not quantity that works best for our business model.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jim Ryan.
Thank you.
Thank you Kevin and good morning everyone.
I'm going to keep my comments brief and focus actually on the combined historical information that's in the release since I think that's most comparative year-over-year with the acquisitions from last year.
Again as Hilton said we were very very pleased with the quarter it came in as we expected.
Our total net revenue on a combined historical basis was up 10% both local and national we're up 2%.
We were very very pleased with that rate and it's actually what we have said in our guidance given that between the absence of the $5.1 million of Olympic revenue that was in 2014 and combining that with the Super Bowl revenue uptick because of NBC versus Fox in 2015/2014 we still had about $4 million hill to climb of non-recurring revenue.
So we were very pleased with the strength the core strength in local and national given the very tough comp we had to last year.
Also we are very pleased that our broadcast operating expenses while they were up 12% or $9 million actually reverse comp with CBS kicking in for the first time in 2015 the reverse comp was up $11 million on a combined historical basis.
So actually our core expenses excluding reverse comp were actually down and we're working hard again in second quarter and try to keep the core expenses as tight as we can make it.
Again briefly commenting on the categories that were mentioned in the release.
Really we kind of expected auto to be down slightly going against again the strong Olympic numbers from last year.
We actually though saw a lot of strength on a relative scale in furniture and appliances and home improvement.
Those two categories tended to offset the other things a little bit and kind of thinking about the quarter it kind of strikes us especially in the Northern markets it seems like a lot of people stayed inside in a harsh winter painted wallpaper and brought new furniture but we were glad to see strength in those categories.
Turning ahead briefly to our second quarter guidance again on a combined historical basis we think our overall revenue will increase 5% to 7%.
We think local will be probably in the 5% to 6% with national somewhere in the 3% to 5%.
The quarter is tracking as we expected it to be so far and we are pleased and if you recall from our fourth call we said that you know we had a strong a lot of Olympic comp to go against in Q1 that we thought Q2 would be picking up as obviously you can see in our guidance it is.
And then obviously as we get into especially Q4 we would expect local and national to pick up again with the - offsetting the very intense political from last year.
Turning briefly to the balance sheet.
As our operating cash flow as defined in our credit agreement was $205.5 million that's on a trailing eight-quarter average basis which left our calculated leverage ratio under the credit agreement at 5.85 which is down from Q4's number.
And as Hilton mentioned at the outset if you net all the cash on the balance sheet our leverage ratio would be at about 4.9 and we're very pleased to see that where it is.
Total debt at the end of the quarter was $1.231 billion.
The Capex for the quarter was $2.8 million; we expect $20 million to $25 million of Capex this year.
We only had $240 000 of cash taxes in the quarter.
We'd expect for the full year that's going to run a few million dollars but nothing terribly significant.
Program payments for the quarter were $3.6 million.
I think for the year that will run around $15 million and the amortization was about the same at $3.6 million and should run in the $15 million to $16 million for the year.
Again our retrans revenue came in at $36.3 million.
Our total network reverse comp was $17 million which left us on a net basis of $19.3 million.
Those numbers are about what we expect and we still for the full-year as we had said in our fourth quarter we expect total retransmission revenue to be in the $148 million range with reverse comp around $70 million with a net number to us of about $78 million.
At this point Hilton I will turn the call back to you.
All right thank you Jim.
Operator if we could open it up for any questions.
Certainly.
[Operator Instructions] We will take our first question from Aaron Watts with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Aaron.
Couple of questions for me.
I guess first as you rolled through first quarter and you now kind of proceed through the second quarter have you seen kind of month-to-month gradual improvement in the advertising environment or has it been more choppy? And I guess as you move from 1Q to 2Q what's kind of driving the improvement that you are seeing? I think in general the improvement is - I mean as what we expected certainly Q1 we knew we had a tough comp from last year with Olympics.
And again Q1 came in where we expected.
We also expected things to be picking up in Q2 on a relative basis.
So I think its basically up kind of a - I would say a reasonably broad based advance.
I do think at least on some initial numbers we are seeing for the quarter it may be a little choppy not significantly but a little.
It looks to me like - actually in second quarter April and June on a relative scale might be a little bit better than May but we will see how everything goes out.
But again thats - I wouldnt describe that as being massive swings between the quarter just kind of a relative basis so far.
Okay.
And is it your sense that more money is starting to come into the local markets at least for television? Are you taking share from others? How would you describe the growth you are achieving? We think we are taking share from other medium.
We may in certain markets be taking some share as well from the television competition.
But I think we are picking - still picking up share from prints.
I think generally again the markets across the board are reasonably healthy in local.
And I dont mean my use of the word reasonably is a negative at all I think we are viewing this right now what we will see in the first half of 2015 was looks like a - I would describe it as a perfectly normal off election year and we are very happy to see what we are seeing.
Okay.
And last one for me.
Kevin you were talking about the opportunities you were reviewing as you move ahead here.
Is the plan to leave the cash kind of on the balance sheet? I think you have around $28 million that is slated for probably the acquisitions you've already announced.
But any plan to pay down debt with some of that cash or you want to keep the dry powder for acquisitions? Kevin if you dont mind Ill take a part of that and you can finish it off.
Aaron I think in the immediate short-term as we said I think very clearly even when we did the offering in the road show we said we would put the cash on the balance sheet for the very immediate future and see what developed on an M&amp;A front and Kevin can certainly comment on that a little bit further.
Certainly as we go forward in time if we are not able to deploy the cash quite as quickly as we would like to we may end up paying down some debt on that to avoid negative carriage on it.
In the immediate short-term we didnt want to be in a situation where we basically paid down Term Loan B only to turnaround and pay a fee to get Term Loan B back out.
So we will continue to monitor that but in the - for a while it doesnt really cost us very much to put it on the balance sheet.
Understood.
Thanks for the time.
Thank you Aaron.
Our next question comes from David Hebert with Wells Fargo Securities.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Maybe just start with a housekeeping for Jim.
You gave the eight-quarter leverage.
Just wondering if you can provide a pro forma LTM EBITDA and what the leverage profile looks like from that perspective? The LTM operating cash flow number would be about 234 thats obviously a pro forma number 234.5.
And an LTM leverage not net would be about 5.3 and if you net it all the cash its - bear with me I got to look at the right spreadsheet just a second.
Hey its about a five times on a - if you net all the cash.
About five times? Okay got it.
And then your Internet revenue was down for the quarter.
And I may have missed any commentary in the press release around that sector.
Maybe if you could just talk about how you're viewing that piece? It was down slightly.
Weve had very growth in our Internet revenue over the last couple of years.
Youve heard us talk about on many calls in the past are really great growth we had in our MomsEveryday vertical which is a vertical thats centering on women and family issues.
I think this year is going to be a little bit of a regrouping year for us in our Internet revenue.
Keep in mind that Internet revenue is all organic it is - we are deriving that off of our television websites.
We dont have any digital businesses.
So thats all organic and I think given the success we have had over the last couple of years this year will end up being a little bit of a regrouping year.
We think Moms still has growth potential in it its developing that more its also continuing to develop other products that we offer on the web and kind of position ourselves for more growth next year and the years to come.
Okay thank you.
And then on the M&amp;A front do you guys feel like ahead of the incentive auction that the conversations have slowed down a little bit? Or is there still a lot of chatter kind of going on beneath the surface? Hey this is Kevin.
I think the auction is something thats interesting and relevant to people who for the most part have TV stations that would have a higher value in the auction and they would have as an operating business.
This is a revers auction so the party who is first going to take a bidto exit the business is going to be generally the weakest station in the market.
And in our markets the type of stations that we are looking where want to own the Number 1 and Number 2 station by definition that means there is going to be somebody who is Number 3 and maybe even somebody is number four five or six.
So if the auction gets to that market in terms of spectrum demand there is going to be other people who will be more interested in taking the auction bid and exit at that point.
So I think the general matter its pretty safe to assume that the TV stations that are waiting for to find out how much money they are going to make in the auction are not the kind of TV stations that Gray is interested in acquiring.
Okay very helpful.
And then last one for me and I'll let someone else jump in.
A lot of talk on the radio side at least about programmatic.
I'm just curious how this impact - this evolution impacts Gray and the broadcast TV industry in general.
Thank you.
Jim you might add to that.
Programmatic means it seems to mean something different to everyone who asked for that question and certainly the buyers and the agencies and sellers all seem to have different views on it as well.
As a general matter we are certainly looking at ways to make the purchase process more electronic and more automated but we are not going to commoditize our product.
So I think at this point programmatic is a general sort of vague term.
They have a slightly negative or sort of positive impact on us depending on how its implemented and what exactly it is that we are talking about but we are not seeing this as a cloud over the industry or a great nirvana coming either.
I think it plays within the margin especially given that international is such a small part of our business.
Jim do you want to add anything on that? No I think you said it well Kevin.
Thank you.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we will hear next from John Ha with Wells Fargo.
Hey guys.
I've got a few questions here.
How should we think about core as you comp against the World Cup? Are you seeing some of that money come back? And is that part of what's driving core strength in your Q2 guide? Thanks.
I don't think World Cup was all that big of a thing for us last year.
So it's not as relevant I don't think for us.
I mean we are just seeing again it looks like it's going to be a reasonably good second quarter for non-political year.
Okay perfect.
And then you guys talked a little bit about Internet but can you maybe talk directionally as to how profitable the Internet business is currently? Our Internet business we have about a 50% margin on that revenue stream.
Okay.
And then last one for me.
Any update as to where you guys stand in relation to some of the newer OTT products that have been announced? Thanks.
Sure.
In the broader sense OTT in the broadcast space is only product which is CBS.
CBS announced we were in the first group of folks that signed the participation agreement little over a month ago.
We launched five markets just couple of weeks ago we are the first group to get the CBS All Access into mid-size and small markets and we are moving forward with that.
In terms of complete third-party linear services Apple Sony and other things that are being discussed those are seemingly still being discussed with respect to the largest markets which mean primarily network owners not Gray.
I think we will probably get approached about OTT retrans in the coming future but at this point none of the OTT operators have come to us and that's actually - I don't think it's a surprise.
We've got to figure out how to get the networks how they are going to approach this and then the larger affiliate groups will have to figure out how to approach it as well.
So we are a little bit down the line when the OTT guys will come to Wichita and Omaha and Fargo.
Okay perfect.
Thank you.
And nice quarter by the way.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next we will hear from Barry Lucas with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Thanks and good morning.
I have several as well.
Jim I think you've kind of passed previously on target leverage but with cash on the balance sheet and potentially some deals that may or may not be in the hopper if we were looking out a year or two years where do you think you'd like to come out on leverage? And how would that affect returns of cash to shareholders? Barry I think first of all we are - again if you just net the cash right now it puts us at about a 4.9 that's certainly within the peer group.
I think in general the peer group is running call it low 5s to somewhere into the 4s.
We certainly would see that number going into the I'd say the middle 4 zip code this year by the end of the year.
And certainly next year with political absent acquisition assuming you pay down debt it's easy to imagine a number well into the 3s.
Certainly as we made very clear about we still want to acquire and grow so long as we can acquire high-quality stations and have that growth on a prudent basis.
So I think a year or two down the road as that part of our plan plays out I think you can see our leverage running basically with the peer group.
And if the peer group is still call it low 5s to somewhere in the 4s on average we'd probably be somewhere in there depending on when the last acquisition was made and how big it was.
If the peer group ultimately over time goes down a little lower we would probably try to follow them as well.
We worked off a little hard to get to this point and while we for some acquisitions we certainly could have the leverage ratio a little bit above 4.9 we worked off a little hard to finally get down with a little leverage ratio that runs with the peer group and I don't think we want to go back to being an outlier so we will kind of run with the pack I would expect.
And in terms of implications for return of cash to shareholders? I think first of all Hilton I think made some comments to that with the Q4 call or the Q3 last year and he can certainly speak to that a little bit.
I think the company has made it clear that in the near term with the acquisitions or the desire to acquire that's probably not going to happen immediately but as we move through time and execute on that plan it certainly becomes a greater likelihood.
I can't speak for the board but certainly we had a long history of shareholder returns prior to the recession and I'd certainly think at an appropriate point in the future there would be a return to that.
Yeah I will - this is Hilton Barry.
I reiterate that maybe something that our board gives a lot of thought and attention to and it is something that we want to return to.
And to be able to return to paying a dividend.
But right now we have a number of transactions and we'd still like to bring our leverage ratio down and so we are just going to take it quarter by quarter and see how successful we are post this equity offering in terms of running the company and then at the appropriate time I think our board will be willing to reinitiate our dividend and also a stock buyback program.
Great thanks so much.
Just one more for me.
Jim could you just refresh us on the other upcoming affiliation renewals and what impact that might have on kind of the net retrans over the next - Actually we are in excellent shape there Barry.
And there is a - in our investor presentation and we just updated it and reposted with the Q2 - I'm sorry Q1 data in it and that's available on our website but our CBS affiliations are all out for August of 2019.
Our NBS and ABC are out to the end of 2018.
And our Fox what we would characterize as a standard three-year deal with Fox out to mid-'17.
And keep in mind we only have 10 Fox affiliations and they tend to be in our smallest markets.
So when you think about CBS ABC and NBC we are out on a long term basis.
We will have renegotiated 100% of our subscriber base before we have to sit down and renegotiate with the Big Three.
So we think we are in a very good place there and in our investor presentation it's slide 14 we've laid out and this was - we did this at the end of - in our Q4 call but we laid out guidance on retrans for '15 '16 and 17 based on the contracts we renewed at the end of last year.
And so we are in a good shape.
We expect our net retrans to be increasing sequentially starting at around $78 million in '15 and then increasing sequentially in '16 and '17.
Great.
Thanks very much Jim.
Moving on well hear from Lance Vitanza with CRT Capital Group.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
And I apologize if this was covered; I've been jumping between calls here.
But I wanted to talk a little bit about spectrum.
And some operators are of the opinion that the spectrum that they own is just so critical to their business model there's no way that they would part with it.
If anybody is going to be supplying data services with the spectrum it should be them.
Others have I think taken somewhat of a more pragmatic view.
And if there's a way to continue with insured high levels of broadcast quality then why shouldn't we look to participate in an incentive auction? Can you refresh my memory and let me know where does Gray stand with respect to this? This is Kevin.
The overall answer is we dont see any opportunities or likelihood that we would participate in the spectrum auction in terms of sharing or surrendering any channels.
We dont have any redundant stations we dont operate JSAs in large congested markets.
So first of all there is not a simple answer.
We have an independent or MyNetwork in Atlanta for example that would be a likely candidate for the auction.
So first of all our markets tend to be smaller and typically outside the places where the FCC has identified a strong spectrum need.
Even in places where they have identified a spectrum a real spectrum need not just simply assigning random numbers in the Greenhill report to TV stations in faraway places but places that are along the board are primarily - again we operate the number one station in those markets.
So if there is - when the FCC auction comes to Flint and Toledo and Rockford for example about then stations - each of those markets we are the number one or number two station and there is guys who are lower ranked and we are operating businesses that are not as profitable as we are.
So in terms of channel-sharing and exiting the business and participating the auction in those kinds of markets is just not something that we ever see the value getting to where we are.
The FCC is not looking to kick - not looking to clear all the TV stations in Rockford or all the TV stations in Toledo.
They want one or two and there is seven or eight already.
So its - it would take a whole series of crazy assumptions to think that the people who have marginal TV stations I dont mean marginal but stations that are not as profitable and successful as ours for some reason are now participating in the auction and then the number just gets driven up where it becomes interesting for us.
So as an overall matter all of our stations are valued as a going concern higher than any estimate that the spectrum auction would throw off.
So if I'm hearing you right the best suppliers of spectrum are those that are less profitable and you guys are obviously not in that position? Sort of a high-class problem I suppose? Correct.
I mean I would say - and in terms of channel-sharing we were out there quickly with multicast channels.
I think Gray was certainly one of the first stations to even put a Big Four on a multicast channel.
Were running nearly 80 multicast channels today we have a 60 plus percent margin on those multicast channel.
So were already using our spectrum up in essentially every market where we think it makes sense.
And so the idea of sort of sharing spectrum with somebody and giving up half our spectrum to someone else doesnt make a lot of sense when were already controlling our own destiny controlling the way that our station operates making the bandwidth allocations we think are appropriate and profiting from that.
So not to say - obviously we never say never we just dont see any opportunities for us to participate in the auction.
That said the TV stations in our markets do channel-share and exit there is going to be assets that are left behind programming assets such as network affiliations some hard assets probably some good talent perhaps in a few places.
And so there will be opportunities for us to benefit from the auction by picking up we think additional program streams and additional assets that would be otherwise abandoned.
For example if there is a particularly weak ABC affiliate in one of our markets and that guy takes the auction bait and leaves ABC is still going to want an affiliate in that market and we think that looking across our markets that ABCs first phone call would be to Gray and say would you like to pick up the ABC affiliation on your digital channel which we would almost certainly say yes.
So our opportunities are not through the auction directly.
Our opportunities are whats left in the market after the auction that clears proper number of TV stations that are clear.
And just so I'm clear on this last point the - while it may be - while it may not be permissible for you to buy your way into a Big Four duopoly what you just described is more of just a re-affiliation and that's not something that the FCC can block or would block? The FCC regulates the transfer of full-power TV licenses not the regulation of programming agreements.
In 16 of our markets we have two Big Four stations - two Big Four channels already and we do that through a digital multicast.
So the primary channel maybe an ABC and then a multicast channel would be for example Fox or some markets may have for example in Laredo we have NBC on the primary channel we have ABC on the secondary channel and we have Telemundo on a third channel.
So NBC gets high-definition ABC gets as much high-definition as our encoders will support and then Telemundo gets a standard definition signal and that obviously varies based on the markets but in 60 markets were already doing exactly that.
Were already operating multiple program streams because its just simply not enough TV stations in these markets.
And our markets typically dont have eight or ten TV stations from which the networks can choose.
Right.
And are those multicast streams - are those typically distributed via cable satellite telco TV as well? Absolutely.
If you want our primary channel you have to carry our multicast channel.
Thanks very much guys.
And as a further note in our retrans if we get paid for all Big Four channels we broadcast.
So if we have two Big Fours in the market were being paid two different - two fees one for each channel so we get full credit and retrans for those Big Four digitals secondary channels.
Got it thanks.
Next well hear from Tracy Young with Evercore.
Hi can you hear me okay? Yes.
Okay great.
I have two questions.
One was related to auto.
I noticed in your pro forma for Q1 that auto was pacing - was down 1%.
Are you seeing improvement in that in second quarter? And then my second question is just on your guidance for expenses for corporate and administrative down $3.5 million.
Is that going to start to lap - sorry I guess in which quarter would that lap? Thank you.
As far as auto again it being down slightly in the first quarter really didnt surprise us.
It was I think in part going against our Olympics from last year.
Also Im sure the weather up north especially had some influence on auto during the quarter.
Yes second quarter is looking better.
It right now its looking like its in a plus single digit territory call it 3% to 5% 4% to 5% right now.
So we think its fine.
Tracy could you repeat the second part of your question? Yeah just looking at your guidance for expenses you said that you expect a reduction of $3.5 million for second quarter in corporate overhead.
I'm just wondering if that laps should we expect that going forward in the year or when that laps.
No thats mostly - thats deal fees from last year that were getting them benefit from because we had a lot of - when we closed Hoak in second quarter last year we - a lot of our deal fees hit in that quarter.
So were going against - thats whats dropping out.
So I think the run rate youre seeing in the number is about the run rate for the year.
Its just that were not going to continue to cycle against a lot of deal fees.
There will be some benefit on deal fees in Q3 because we had a little in SJL but it was not nearly as much as Hoak.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
[Operator Instructions] And next we'll hear from Marci Ryvicker with Wells Fargo.
Thanks.
I have a high-level question.
You reported results and gave guidance today that was better than expected.
Disney reported this morning their broadcast segment really outperformed.
So it feels like broadcast in general is probably healthier than we've seen in a really long time.
And then you compare that to what some of the regional cable companies reported with advertising down.
So the question is are you seeing a share shift from maybe cable or any other media into broadcast television? We probably are a little bit Marci.
It's a little hard to say from cable we certainly - and our markets are always trying to move dollars from the cable pie over to our side and we certainly I think are still benefiting from print and moving share there not as dramatically as a few years ago but I think it's still moving too.
So I mean we would agree with you that based on what were seeing so far and the commentary from our managers as I think I phrased it earlier it seems like this year so far is off to being a perfectly normal non-election year and we're perfectly happy to have a year like that.
Got it.
And do you have any expectations about the upfront? Or any thoughts on how the upfront might impact at least national advertising at your stations if at all? Our opinion has always been that the upfronts have virtually no impact on our business at all.
If it has any impact on national it's almost indiscernible.
I mean the upfronts are obviously its the networks and the big advertisers going back and forth but that really doesn't have a bearing in our markets in Lexington or Lincoln or Reno.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Next we will hear from Jim Goss with Barrington Research.
Thanks.
I was wondering first about the - well I think it's encouraging that you are participating in the NBC and CBS TV Everywhere and All Access type programs.
I was wondering if you could talk a little more about the economic model you expect to have from them? Do you think your reach will be something you can reflect in your ad rates? Or is there some other way you might have an impact? And are there - a number of companies have started to establish presence - increasing presence in some of the traditional Gray-type markets the smaller markets with state capitals and college towns and that sort of thing.
And then look at businesses that might be related to the existing business that could be some - provide some ancillary economic impact in those markets.
I wondered if you had any things like that in mind as well? Let me see if I can the first one it can be answered by saying we are at the mercy of Nielsen to provide ratings and Nielsen has told CBS and CBS has told the affiliates that the online viewership for CBS All Access and I believe we will see similarly for TV everywhere it will be included in ratings whether that's a - that happens by this November book or if it's going to be early next year I can't guess.
We are expecting to see rates online viewership included in the ratings which again would allow us to monetize a little bit better.
Although we don't typically sell our local ads based on number of impressions or - and the like we are a local business driven a little more by type of station we have and in our overall package than we are on to specific numbers of people watching even our newscast that are online today.
So we do see - there is a monetization opportunity there.
I'm not sure it's great in the near-term but it should be enough to offset the cost of experimenting with these types of online streaming services.
Second question I'm not sure I fully understood but if you're asking are we looking at any ancillary businesses in our markets the one ancillary business that we have begun is called LocalX which is a digital services business where we have an outside vendor who has allowed us to white label digital products like SCO and website design et cetera and we do - we have just recently started that business up.
Beyond that in terms of something like publishing a newspaper or a website for online political information or something in Tallahassee we've not looked into the publishing business.
There has been a number of folks who have tried to do that and with very limited success and thats probably outside our core competency.
So we don't really want to trip over the risk of starting some other business we don't do anything about and forsake attention on the mothership that delivers and powers the ratings and returns like we announced today.
I wasn't really thinking you'd become something else.
I just thought that - Gray has traditionally had a pretty good emphasis on the digital aspect of the business and I think has been a leader especially from a small market standpoint.
So I thought there could be some things along those lines.
But the other question might be do you have any interest in taking an advanced look at the 2016 political season since we are starting to get a crowded slate already on the Republican side? And maybe some questions about what the Democratic side - are there any long-term prognostications you would like to build into our expectations? I am in DC.
This is Kevin Im in DC and I know a lot of time with folks in the political side the campaign side and I havent found anybody who has any reasonable guess as to what the political spend will be in 2016 versus 2012 outside of everyone I know so its going to be a lot more.
We are not really going to hazard a guess when the experts who are buying the adds can see me give me a straight answer.
We know its going to be more we think 2012 we saw a lot of buying on the Democratic side earlier than ever before the 14 elections we saw I think both parties buying earlier than ever before and we expect that will certainly pick up in 16 as the states have moved more towards non-election day but election windows and early voting and online voting and voting by mail.
So election window has opened up and so the need to try to tar or paint or skew or spin or however you want to describe your message and your opponent's message becomes increasingly important.
So what I would say from our standpoint is it seems that every day we look and we find another contested election in one of our markets and the presidential seems to be shaping up to be a free flow one side and maybe not a coordination on the other side.
So I think we are very optimistic that 2016 will be better than 2012 but how much better is really beyond our ability to guess at this point.
All right.
Thanks so much.
And we have no additional questions in the queue at this time.
All right.
Well thank you so much operator and I'm going to thank everyone for joining us this morning and we look forward to talking to you next water.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Gray Televisions Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
Todays conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Hilton Howell President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you so much operator.
Welcome to the second quarter earnings call for Gray Television.
On the call with me as usual is Jim Ryan our Chief Financial Officer.
Kevin Latek who is usually on these calls is unavailable today.
We will each have a few brief comments and then answer any questions that you may have.
First we were thrilled with Grays performance this quarter and year-to-date.
We achieved record revenue for the quarter and year of $143.5 million and $276.8 million respectively a 34% increase for the quarter and a 39% increase year-to-date.
These gains led to record broadcast cash flow of $57.2 million and $104 million for the quarter and year.
This is an historic high for Gray Television.
Likewise we achieved record net income of $12.1 million and $17.7 million for both periods which represents again an all-time high.
We achieved record retransmission consent revenue of $36.9 million and $73.2 million the highest of any periods in our history.
And following our successful secondary offering at the end of March of this year and a strong free cash flow generation our stations and company delivers we had $222.2 million of cash on hand on our balance sheet at the end of the second quarter reducing our net leverage ratio to 4.8 times.
We have made good use of the proceeds of our secondary and of the cash that our company has generated.
On July 1 we announced five individual acquisitions all of which that we closed at the beginning of the third quarter.
First we announced the acquisition of KMVT the CBS affiliate and KSVT the FOX affiliate in Twin Falls Idaho.
Second we announced the acquisition of WAGM the CBS and FOX affiliate in Presque Isle Maine.
Third we announced the acquisition of KOSA the CBS affiliate in Odessa Midland Texas.
Fourth we announced the acquisition of the FOX affiliate in Wausau Wisconsin to add to our existing operations in that DMA.
Fifth we announced the acquisition of KVTV the CBS affiliate in Laredo Texas to similarly add to our operations in the Texas Valley.
We are extremely happy to add these operations viewers and associates to the growing Gray Television business family.
We continue to look at suitable acquisitions that fit our criteria of dominant television stations in attractive and growing markets.
We are very proud of our acquisition track so far this year and hope to bring other acquisitions to bear in the second half of this year.
All-in we couldnt be more pleased with our results.
This past Friday we also announced the addition of Beth Neuhoff to our Board of Directors.
Beth is an experienced broadcaster and the CEO of Neuhoff Communications.
Gray is blessed to have an outstanding Board of Directors and Beth will add merry to our governance structure.
I would like to publicly welcome Beth Neuhoff to our Board of Directors.
With that since the success of this quarter says so much and really says it all I will turn it over to Jim Ryan for his comments.
Thank you Hilton.
Good afternoon everybody.
I am going to first pre-apologize for a bad summer cold I have so pardon me for my voice and maybe some occasional coughing.
I am going to focus my comments specifically on the combined historical results for both the second quarter and year-to-date because I think thats most meaningful to everyone as we are comparing our 15 results to and giving effect to all of the acquisitions we have been doing through 2014.
For the quarter our core local was up 6% on a combined historical basis.
National was up 4 right in line with our expectations for the quarter.
The local and national core together was up 6% which we feel very very good about.
Our retransmission revenue came in at $36.9 million which is what we expected.
Our political at $2.2 million was a little bit better than we had anticipated and thats I think the best reference point is that the second quarter at $2.2 million is about $1.3 million over 2013 results.
So we are comparing off-year to off-year and again we feel good about that.
Our operating expenses for television were up as we  up $6.1 million.
Most importantly and as we have talked about this on the last several calls that expense increase quarter-over-quarter is really being driven by the increased reverse comp especially with our pay in CBS for the first time ever this year.
A reverse comp was up in the quarter $11.1 million.
So actually our core expenses including reverse comp are down about $5 million and we are extremely pleased with that.
Year-to-date again we are pleased with where we are so far.
Its tracking to expectation.
As we said in our Q1 call we had some tough comps in Q1 of 15 with Winter Olympics from last year but on a year-to-date basis again core local up a solid 4%; national up 3%; retrans a little bit over $73 million; political at $3.4 million which is double the year-to-date run-rate of 2013.
Again we are encouraged by that.
And our broadcast operating expenses are up $15 million but again thats been driven by a $22 million increase as expected in reverse comp.
So on a year-to-date basis on a combined historical basis our core expense in TV less reverse comp is actually down a little over $7 million and we are very very pleased with that.
Turning to our guidance for third quarter and again focusing on combined historical.
And here in our third quarter guidance for combined historical we are also picking up for the first time the impact of the acquisitions Hilton mentioned at the beginning of the call.
So this is a full comparative.
We are  it appears our third quarter revenue will come in around $145 million which actually would be equal to 2014.
And while it may have happened in the past I am hard pressed to recall a third quarter in a nonpolitical year where net revenue actually equaled third quarter of a political year.
So we are very pleased in our trajectory for third quarter.
Core local growth is very  is appearing strong.
Its up 7% to 9%.
Core national growth appears that it might be a touch better at 8% to 10% but that slightly better run-rate is partly explained by political replacement because obviously we do arguing up against a strong political from last year.
And usually our national advertising is one of the first things that gets crowded out a little bit when the political advertising comes in.
Again we are  we expect about on the high side maybe $1.9 million of political.
We certainly have always tried to be conservative in our political estimates.
This is very difficult to predict.
There certainly is some room for upside in the political as we move to the rest of the third quarter.
Also looking out farther into the year we have seen what I would characterize is some relatively small buys already being placed for later in the year primarily issue money in a few states.
Its not really big dollars yet I characterize it as probably still less than $1 million but we are very encouraged by the fact that there is already some early buying for later fourth quarter and we think that bodes well for political late this year.
And certainly as we have talked in prior calls our 2016 political is going to be exceedingly strong.
As Hilton mentioned our leverage ratio if we net our cash on the balance sheet calculated under the terms of our senior credit facility would have been 4.8 times at the end of Q2 and thats down a little bit as we had anticipated from Q1.
We see that trajectory absent any further acquisitions to be going into the mid-4s by the end of the year and then significantly lower than that by the end of 2016.
Our debt on the balance sheet at the end of the quarter was $1.231 billion.
Our senior leverage ratio under the credit facility was at $2.51 million.
We had CapEx in the quarter of about $5.5 million $8.4 million for the year.
We are still viewing our CapEx run-rate between $20 million and $25 million for this year.
Our cash taxes for the quarter were $1 million.
And we think for the full year we are going to end up somewhere between $2 million and $3 million in cash taxes.
Program payments were about $3.5 million for the quarter $7.1 million year-to-date.
And we think full year basis thats looking to be about $14 million to $15 million and the equivalent program amortization are about the same numbers.
Quarter-to-date again retransmission revenue was $36.9 million reverse comp was $17 million leaving us a net reverse comp of $19.9 million.
The stations we picked up at July 1 will be slightly additive to the numbers we have already published in our investor presentation for both total reverse  total comp obviously with increased reverse comp as well but most importantly our net retrans at a full year basis in our investor presentation we have said it was probably going to be about $78 million.
Now with the additional acquisitions we are probably up around $80 million.
With that Hilton I will turn the call back to you.
Great.
Thank you Jim.
Operator lets open up for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We will take our first question from Aaron Watts with Deutsche Bank.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking the call and Jim I will try to take it easy on you today.
Hi.
First question just on kind of your performance moving from second quarter to the third quarter.
I think you mentioned that national might be ramping up a little bit because of the political displacement factor.
Anything notable on the local side that is helping kind of boost your performance there? I characterized that more on locals a little bit more broad-based.
We certainly have are going against a reasonable amount of political from last year in Q3.
It was about $23 million.
So thats a part of it.
I dont want to point to any one single thing I think I described it as just a lot of base hits and doubles and nothing really kind of homerun-ish just a good solid off year Q3.
Okay.
And on the auto category it looks like it was down slightly how do you kind of reconcile SAAR being very strong right now yet the auto category not really showing growth is it just the cars are flying off the lots and the local dealers? I think thats part of it.
And with the SAAR going up I mean certainty they are earning credits at the local level.
And I dont know exactly how long they have window they have to use those credits but I would think with the cars moving so fast they are probably savings  they could all be saving some of those credits they are earnings now for down the road when they needed more.
Okay.
And then one last one for me just on M&amp;A you guys have obviously been more active than others recently and what I would characterize is kind of a smaller acquisitions what do you think is kind of holding back larger scale M&amp;A right now both for Gray or the sector as a whole and what do you think kind of jolts everyone back into considering larger M&amp;A? Well let me  Aaron let me start with that.
This is Hilton.
The answer for Gray which is the only thing that I can speak to is its not holding  nothing is holding us back.
With regard to the industry every company in our industry has different issues and different opportunities and they would look at things differently.
There has been a lot of controversy out.
The impact of the repacking and everything thats happening with the FCC I think thats very company specific.
That is something that we have publicly said that it is extremely unlikely that Gray will participate in because our stations make a lot of money.
They have got tremendous cash flow.
And they have an enormously important role in their individual communities.
And so Gray looks for stations and groups but its just hard to find them that we can add to our portfolio.
So absolutely nothing that thing is holding us back.
Every other company will have to answer that for themselves.
So thats about all I can really speak to.
Do you feel that a material type of transformative transaction for Gray would be beneficial just given the kind of changing landscapes throughout television right now? Well I mean I dont know exactly what a transformational merger means.
I actually I will probably do.
And the answer is that it actually Aaron depends on who the partner would be.
I think that Gray is now a sufficient vertical scale in its markets to stand on its own for the duration.
And I think that horizontal scale is something that we should continue to work on.
And I think net with of all of our transactions that we announced the 1 July we are in 47 markets out of 204 205 206 something like that in the country.
And out of those 47 markets we are not the dominant provider we are [indiscernible] near it and we think that gives a tremendous amount of staying power and gravitas.
And I think that our retransmission concerned negotiations this prior year prove that.
And so we feel good about where we are.
Theres a lot of assets that are in this business and people may be deciding whether or not they want to continue to have them and run them or not.
And the one that I will say is that Gray is a permanent player in this space.
And we are interested in talking with anyone but I think that they have a sterling team we have sterling assets and we know how to run a TV station.
And so I would be remiss if I said that we werent in discussions they occur all the time.
There are a few obstacles to things happening in the next two or three quarters.
For other companies there is zero standing in the way for Gray television because the thing that makes us the ones that have a broadcast operating business that coins money and serves its community.
And those are television stations that are not going to be turned back to the FCC.
So we are ready and able to move we have demonstrated our ability to move quickly and we have the capital and the assets and the access to capital to make those potentialities a reality.
Understood.
Helpful insights Hilton.
Thank you.
Thank you Aaron.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Lance Vitanza from CRT Capital Group.
Hi I have a couple of questions the first is on the core national guidance I understand reverse crowding out but if you compare that guidance to what you actually achieved in 3Q of 13 this is much stronger its really on the same ballpark so my question is whats driving that is this a stronger ad recovery than we saw back in 2013 or is it more a question of better execution on the...? Well our 15 guidance for national includes all the acquisitions completed to-date I am not sure what you are looking at for Q3 13 but if its our historic as reported and its obviously doesnt have all the impact of acquisitions in it.
Just so I am clear though I thought when you said that the growth and rates in the guidance that includes you are comping off of it on a combined basis are you not? Yes.
And so that combined basis in Q  I thought you said Q3 13 maybe you said Q3 14 I misunderstood you.
No I did.
What I am saying is you are growing more quickly than the old legacy business was growing in Q3 13.
The last time that you had reverse crowding out as a benefit.
So I am making the point I guess I am trying to understand its not just  I mean it occurs to me that you are doing something better than you were doing in 3Q 15 because the growth rates are higher.
And if I am hearing you right it sounds like you are saying that there is something  you are outperforming on basically on the properties that you have acquired? There is some of that.
And I think that goes to the properties that we have acquired and we felt  and then as we acquired them we thought there was some potential there.
I think it could be also depending on the market on sort of the relative performance scale we may be picking up a little bit more share in some markets as well thats helping boost the overall number.
Okay thank you.
So on the reverse comp side if I heard you earlier in the comments $17 million of reverse comp in 2Q is that a flat fee or does that number vary with your retrans and in either case how long should we expect that $17 million to remain the run rate? It depends on the network how the fee is worked.
A couple of networks have a fixed fee.
A couple of other networks have a hybrid where there is a fixed fee component but then the fee agreement has a variable component as well.
So but in our case as you can clearly see in the existing investor deck where we laid those numbers out for the next  15 16 17 regardless of the network and how they choose to do their individual fee we think our run rate on a net basis is roughly 50-50 over the next several years.
Now the $17 million will  that you mentioned will step up a little bit in Q3 and Q4 because obviously the additional acquisitions we have made but like I said earlier on a full year basis we originally had expected about $78 million of net at the end of the day and thats with the additional acquisitions they were relatively small markets but that will boost the number a little bit higher to about $80 million.
Okay thats helpful.
And then for Hilton just regarding transformational M&amp;A I gather you get a lot of questions about that and there is perhaps some interest in that.
But I wanted to make a comment that in Q1 you were the top TV performer in terms of core revenue growth and so forth.
And with the numbers you reported today I would be surprised if you werent the top performer in 2Q and the guidance for 3Q suggests you are doing well again.
So I would just say that literally the last thing I would want to see is for you to be involved in a transformational transaction because you are already where we would want you to be and so I dont know what you would be transforming into.
Its hard to imagine that you would be transforming into something better? Thats the nicest comment I have ever gotten in one of these calls.
I will tell you yesterday I was in South Bend Indiana and I talked to all of our employees at WNDU our station there that we purchased a number of years ago from Notre Dame University and I think the team that we have in place the management that we have in place are truly extraordinary.
I am so proud of what they are doing on an individual market-by-market basis because no matter how much Jim and I have been working everybody else at that level to individual stations and their performance and what they do on a local basis that leads to what we have and what we reported.
And I am enormously proud of the corporate culture that we have created thats in Gray Television because we invest a great deal into our stations we invest a great deal in technology and we invest a great deal into content.
And I am very happy to be able to consistently report that those investments pay off for our shareholders.
And when we did our secondary at the end of March we showed our numbers and despite being an invest and build broadcaster or maybe because invest and build broadcaster likely because we have the highest EBITDA of any publicly traded comp in the country.
And we would like to keep it that way as best as we can.
However our industry is changing and we have to stay cognizant and confident of whats happening and whats moving and every one of our guys works 24/7 365 and a lot of people say that but ours really do and they have path and they are going to pay attention to how the industry shifts and changes but we will never lose sight of what we owe and are obligated to do for our shareholders of this company.
And I thank you for your comments.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
We will go next to Marci Ryvicker with Wells Fargo Securities.
Thanks for anyone looking at their screen as I am sure you can see that media stocks are down big today.
Its dragging Gray down.
And I think its coming off the commentary from Disney on pay-TV subs.
And so one of the questions I am getting is in terms of reverse comp on the affiliate side if you are paying a fixed fee by market what happens if your pay-TV subs go down as well that you are getting less retrans revenue but still paying the same amount or is it the case that given your broadcast you are a little bit safer because you will be included in all the skinny bundles so your pay-TV subs may not go down as much as something like cable? Marci I completely agree with the second half of that comment that yes given that we are operating in Big Four affiliates in strong new stations that we will be in skinny bundles.
So we are not distressed by that.
Will there be over time a little bit of cord cutting? It is certainly but again we think given the size market we operate in and the high-quality news operations we dont  we think we are probably a little more insulated on that than maybe a major metro market might be.
So again we are not overly concerned.
And certainly the retrans agreements themselves are generally 3 years long.
So there are definitely opportunities to reprice and adjust not all that infrequently.
So we are pretty comfortable with that landscape over the next several years.
Okay.
And then can you remind us how many stations or what percent of your markets you have number one or number two ranked new stations? And then on top of that I believe that the number one or number two ranked new station usually gets over 50% of the political revenue in a market? It can yes.
And Hilton is right in the 40 47 markets we are in currently it will  its all but two that we operate a number one or a number two station.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Marci let me give you one example though on that number three station because I think even that exaggerates it.
One of them is Albany Georgia where we have operating out of our Tallahassee station the CBS.
I think the FOX and the CW and I apologize we are not being able to put that out there correctly.
Within that DMA we ranked as number three but we used to own the number one WLD which is now a Raycom station.
And the FCC forced us to relinquish that market but we were able to bring service to that community out of our station in Tallahassee that keeps our cost down that is dramatically profitable.
And so with regard to market ranks another thing to keep in mind about the quality of what we do a lot of the places where we report a number three its really not a number three I mean its a unique opportunity where we can make outsized profits and actually deliver outsized public returns to the viewers in those communities that didnt used to have that.
And so I would argue that we are number one number two everywhere but thats because of some of the unique issues that accompany our number three stations.
Got it.
Thank you both very much.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Jim Goss with Barrington Research.
Thanks.
I have got a couple of questions.
First as you have gotten somewhat bigger and your platform has gotten more extensive is there any shift in the appropriate size of markets as your scale higher? Let me answer that Jim and then I will let you come back around to that.
I think there is a lot of discussions about market size by companies.
There are some companies that come in and say we only want to operate in X market and above.
My personal opinion about the way we operate if we are able to make the profit margins the EBITDA margins and yet deliver the service that we deliver in our smaller markets.
When we get into a bigger market where there is a lot more cash flow and we operate in the same way we are going to be very successful.
Sometimes I think its harder for a big market group to come into smaller markets but I think Gray has the potential to do that.
Now let me say that that is not the strategic vision of our company but by the same token I would never preclude that.
Gray has the capacity to grow into one of the if not the dominant television broadcaster in this country and by that I mean also in larger markets but by quality.
We are passionate about this business.
We believe in it and we believe that we are in the period of really a new golden era of what we are doing.
And technology is helping us.
And we make more money now on our digital platforms than we ever got in the old days of reverse comp.
And so not reverse comp but compensation from the networks.
And we just see so many different silver linings to apparent clouds.
So Gray does not limit itself by market size.
We do limit ourselves by quality but there is also an issue of competition.
If you just go through the market stats as markets gets larger and larger you dont typically see a station or group of stations that have market shares that we are accustomed to.
And thats something Gray will have to learn if it ever has an opportunity to grow larger markets.
We look at each deal on a station-by-station basis.
We had no ego invested in the process.
We have a desire to build our company to enrich our shareholders and to serve our communities because we think those are all three things that work intimately together.
And so we look at every deal and we will see but broadcasting is a sticky business with its viewers.
And so we look at everyone and so dont think that Gray wouldnt go to a larger market as long as it was something that was within our comfort zone.
Jim Ryan made a comment either last earnings call or the one before or maybe both.
But at one point I think he worked at the number 38 market size in Grand Rapids.
And from his own personal experience there is really not much difference between a market of that size and our largest market which is currently Knoxville Tennessee.
And so we have the ability to look up and to look down.
The one thing I am really proud of is that we have created because of the talent in our company and it spread all through the United States the ability to make significant money in a community as vibrant to get as small as North Platte Nebraska and Presque Maine a great addition to our portfolio.
And those stations served their communities and they make handsome returns for what they are doing.
And if we can do it in those markets and we can double the quality which if you show up in any of our markets just turn our television stations on it looks like anything you can see in the top 10 markets in this country.
And you  I have a lot of confidence that I think is well founded in fact an experience an ability to get better.
We are not going to be at the top of them but we can get larger than 65 or 64.
You have always had an affinity to or an inclination to look at capital cities and college towns and there used to be a company called Capital Cities Communications has eventually bought ABC that seem to have a pretty good record along those lines I am wondering if  are you proactively going after some of those markets in a sort of initiate or try to initiate discussions where you can what sort of process do you go through? I will say this.
We have a strong management team and we go through the inventory stations that are out there.
And I hate to call it anything other than it is but its really a shopping list.
And its some of the best stations in the country.
Some of them are goods some of them are individual stations but all of them calm with a great deal of pride of ownership respect for the business we are in and candidly allow for the business that they are in.
It is a delicate process its a cording process for Gray.
And we look at ourselves with regard to the existing markets we have and I will refer to those in every one of our videos as being stewards of those stations because thats how I view it and thats how we view it.
Now we create a ton of free cash flow which is what our investors really care about.
But at the end of the day its the substance that people put out on the individual markets that creates that free cash flow.
And so we have a strong and very articulated shopping list and we work it everyday.
And we are sometimes successful and sometimes we fail.
I think we have demonstrated to the market that we are discipline in our pricing because when we started this round of acquisitions we have actually been able to do it and everyone has been accretive it will continue to be because that allows us to continue to build broader scale of this operation.
And I am really proud of what our team has accomplished.
So we do have a very strong identification process and a great shopping list.
I just wish we can get all of it.
Alright.
Well one risk factor I would like to bring up.
Over the years broadcasting  television broadcasting in particular combination broadcasting cable has been able to maintain its share of total domestic ad spending pretty well.
The latest encroachments have been Internet and now digital.
Now I am wondering if there is some risk with streaming and over the top that there might be some potential shift in your ability to maintain that the industry in particular an ability to its share of total ad dollars since they cant really grow too much out of the line of GDP? Well let me start with that and I will let Jim follow-up with me when I am finished.
I have  I have grown up in this business and its the biggest chicken little business I have ever studied.
I mean whether it is the remote control or cable or anyone of the other different technological challenges all of the people that were predecessors of mine in any company whether is it capital cities A B C or have to deal with question just exactly like that.
It is not to make light of that question because we have seen the power of technology and how its changing our world everyday.
But something I mentioned two quarters ago we commissioned SmithGeiger to study what we are doing.
And they looked at all of our stations by regions and then interviewed literally thousands of people per region in terms of their view of our stations and what we did.
And their results were presented at our General Managers meeting at the end of February of this year.
And the results were really quite stunning.
Our individual websites our digital presence our apps great digital media thats out there are the single most viewed local digital or mobile product in any of our markets by region.
And in fact the only thing that beats them are Facebook Google YouTube and what I really dont understand but this is what the results showed was weather.com.
Those four and in every one of those regions we were the dominant number one ahead of newspaper ahead of our competition of everything.
And I think that a lot of that is due to the talented team that we have that made us first.
We were the first broadcast company in the country to have an Apple app that you can download by market across the country.
We were the first broadcast company in the country to have it for Android.
We were the first one to have it for the Kindle store.
We have fabulous digital properties and we make more money on that than we ever have before.
Now so let me turn to your question.
Over the top all of the rest of it because of the quantity of what we have in the portfolio on an individual microeconomic basis I dont think its a big challenge for Gray Television.
And I think that we will have some adjusting to do but I think the power of the content that we create is going to see us through in a very solid fashion.
And so I am not really concerned about that.
I dont see any bundle or anything else being capable of this lodging us from where we are.
And in fact I see the local competition in each of our markets getting less not getting higher.
10 or 15 years ago the biggest competitors that we had was the local newspaper.
And it is the odd situation where that is currently the case.
But your comment is a legitimate one that we battle all the time because our competition is everything from Google all the way down the chain.
And I just wish that our regulators would look at it that way and the FCC would understand that we have to continue to evolve because there are many paths to making this business even better.
And we still remain as a local television station the single best avenue of reporting and news coverage and I think it is vital to our communities and I would hazard to guess its actually vital to our democracy.
Its one of the reasons that we launched the Gray Washington D.C.
Bureau was to bring real news to allow our legislators to talk directly without filter to their voters and back and forth.
And it has been a stunning success for us.
We have seen it in our ratings.
We have seen it in the amount of product Washington Bureau puts out and its irreplaceable.
And so we feel good no matter what the technology comes out.
Thanks.
Your passion is showing through.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Barry Lucas with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Hi Barry.
Thanks.
Good afternoon Hilton.
Good to talk to you.
A couple of quick odds and ends.
On auto could we talk a bit about how thats actually pacing in Q3 given the strength in national? I think Barry right now its a little bit better how it will translate for the whole quarter I think its just a little too early to tell.
But we dont  it doesnt seem to be going in the wrong direction for us in general.
Our pacing for Q3 again we are encouraged and its reflective in the local and national growth rates on a combined historical basis but where July appears right now I am its pacing in healthy upper single-digits.
August is similar.
September local and its still pretty early for September remember its only the first week of August.
But local is up pacing right now a nice solid mid single-digit range and national is doing a little bit better.
And again its given the relatively earliness in the quarter that local in September is what we would expect and we think it will  and obviously it will pick up a little bit as we get closer to really selling September.
So we are pleased with what we are seeing.
Okay.
So you are saying what it was up in all three months? It felt like it picked up a little bit in July where it will end up for the whole quarter.
I think its a little too early but it doesnt  right now it doesnt feel like its  right now its kind of flattish year-to-date or thereabouts.
And it doesnt seem to us like its I am trying to think of eroding.
Its not going south.
If anything third quarter will look a lot like the first part of the year but it has to potentially get a little better.
Great.
Jim as long as you are I dont want to keep you on with your cold here but you did outperform on the expense side when you strip out reverse comps.
So where are those savings coming from? Its a little bit across the board.
We did have a reasonably good quarter in our health and welfare plan we are self-funded so that there is some volatility there.
And so Q3 was relatively good.
We have seen some  I am sorry Q2.
Our payroll was down a little bit year-over-year thats partly reflective of a one-time charge we took last year our non-cash charge when we changed our vacation policy to a paid time off policy.
So thats certainly helping a little bit but also base payroll is done I think thats just again partly reflective of working the opportunities we have seen  we saw in the acquisitions that we were making in 14.
We are saving a little bit in national rep commission because we are not obviously without the political you dont have to pay.
Most of political comes through the national rep.
And we are not going to go pay those commissions on the political this year so thats certainly helpful as well but Barry really its  as I described it I think its on the revenue  in answering a revenue question earlier its a lot of playing old-fashioned singles and doubles and grinding it out nothing  not any one single company-wide initiative thats really driving it its just everybody at the stations working hard to try to be as cost efficient as they can.
Great.
Last time for me and Hilton I dont want to reign on the parade at all here especially given internet up 4.9% but shouldnt that number be a little bit stronger? Well we would certainly like it to be and I think the answer is yes.
But I think its going to come.
We had a few flat falls that we have fixed.
And I think as you will see that number growing as we go for quarter-to-quarter but we are still very proud about this.
And Barry as we said before this year for that line item is kind of the regrouping year for us.
We had the last few years some very very strong growth.
And we are just  we are as Hilton said just kind of redoubling the efforts to take it now again to the next level and push it forward.
And we have had if you track it back far enough I think you will see a couple of other times where its had a growth spurt leveled a little and then sprinted again.
So we are gearing up to push it forward again.
Great thanks very much.
Feel better Jim.
Thank you Barry.
Thank you.
We will go next to Leo Kulp with RBC Capital Markets.
Hi good afternoon.
Thanks for taking the questions.
I just have two quick ones.
First can you provide an update on your Big Four subscriber count I think the last one I saw was 9.6 million? Of the five acquisitions we will increase that a little bit.
To be honest I dont have that immediately handy but given the size of the markets its not going to change that dramatically.
And I will get this wrong I know I will but its like Presque Isle Maine has 15 000 subscribers or something.
Its just indicative of the market.
So it will move it a little bit but not certainly nothing at a material level.
But you are not seeing an erosion on your sort of underlying base? No.
We are really not seeing anything significant as I said earlier.
Occasionally there is some what appears to be cord cutting or some times its more of just changing between one provider and other but again given our size markets and our very strong news operations we think we are probably a little bit more insulated than maybe a big metro market.
Okay.
And then any thoughts on how the DIRECTV AT&amp;T merger will impact your retrans fees? The simple answer is we kind of worst case we dont think it will really impact things.
There is the possibility that it might actually be helpful to us.
Its still a little unclear to us exactly how thats going to  how they are structuring that and at the end of the day which set of contracts will apply or is it any more status quo of the AT&amp;T side as that static and the TW side is static.
Its a little unclear to us but we certainly are not expecting a negative out of it.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We will go next to  we have a follow-up from Marci Ryvicker with Wells Fargo Securities.
Marci your line is open.
Please check your mute function.
Hearing no response we will go to John Huh with Wells Fargo Securities.
Hey guys.
Sorry I think that was me on Marcis line actually.
I just had a couple of follow-ups.
Jim given that you closed a bunch of deals on July 1 are there any one-time deal costs embedded into your Q3 expense guide? There is a little bit but really some of that I mean given the actual size of those deals and its not going to be a lot.
They tended to proceed actually quickly and without  and very cordially I would phrase it as and so unlike maybe a big deal that takes a lot of legal time to get it put together these were pretty straightforward deals.
And so there is a little bit but its baked into the number we put out there.
Okay perfect.
And then just on your Q3 political guide it seems like it implies a sequential decline from Q2.
I know you said you are staying on the conservative side there but its little bit surprising given the way that political usually tends to trend and given the stations you are adding in the quarter so like any color there would be helpful? Yes I mean really I mean the number of  the range we put out certainly we would hope we were at the high end or a little bit above it.
And obviously there is certainly the opportunity for political to skew further up.
I cant really cite anything in particular John I would say well it was X thing in Q2 that boosted the number up.
I think this is kind of is what it is right now but certainly we are not bashful in taking political orders.
So if the opportunities are there we will always try to get more than our fair share.
Got it thats it for me.
Thank you so much.
Well let me just add one other thing just as an issue of reinforcement.
We really get the highest political revenue per household of any station group in the country and its because of what we put on the field and back in that.
I am also proud of what Jim does because its hard to predict political but its not impossible because it changes all the time depending upon polls leads and contested races.
So its a little hard for anyone sitting in Jims position to project political.
But I think it is fair to say that we think this whole process is going to be extremely bullish for us and for industry.
I think on a percentage basis we are going to get more than our fair share of it because of what we do.
And so I think its going to be a huge upside and I think that its going to expand dramatically.
And I expect that we will start seeing increases in the third and fourth quarters just based upon what we have got going on and thats more than the presidential election here.
I mean we have got competitive senate races competitive governors races and they just simply have to be our stations to get elected in their communities.
So we are very bullish about that for the next six quarters.
Great I appreciate the color.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We have no further questions in the queue.
I would like to turn the program back over to Mr.
Howell for any additional or closing comments.
Thank you very much operator and thanks all of you for being here this afternoon.
Thank you for your interest in our company.
And thank you for your interest in our industry.
We are excited about where we are and excited about where we are going.
So we look to talking to you next quarter or if you have any questions you know how to reach us give us a ring.
Have a great afternoon.
Thank you.
That does conclude todays call.
Thank you for your participation.
Please standby we about to begin.
Good day and welcome to the Gray Televisions Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
Todays conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Hilton Howell President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you good morning everyone thank you operator.
Welcome to the third quarter earnings call for Gray Television.
This quarter end year has been a time of great achievement for your company of which we trust you are justifiably proud.
For the quarter end year Gray achieved record revenue of a 151.1 million and 427.9 million respectively also for the quarter our free cash flow was $0.22 per share and for the year $0.96 per share or 15.6 million and 65 million respectively.
Net income with $0.09 per share for the quarter and $0.36 per share for the year significantly this quarter's results contained special charges relating to our previously announced termination of our national sales agreements and various cost related to our quarters and pending acquisitions.
Without those onetime costs our net income per share would have been $0.18 for the quarter and $0.45 for the year to date.
Since October 1 2013 we have completed 16 acquisition transactions which collectively had added 30 televisions stations in 18 markets to our operations.
Last quarter we completed five transactions that added 6 new stations to our operations.
[Coastal Television] the CBS in Mid-Odessa KMVT the CBS and KSVT the FOX and Twin Falls Idaho the FOX affiliate in Wausau Wisconsin which we have re-christened as WZAW named after one of our legendary employees in that market.
And that now broadcast together with our CBS affiliate WSAW in Wausau.
WAGM-TV the CBS/FOX [indiscernible] and KVTV the CBS affiliate in Laredo Texas which is now broadcasting with our other network affiliated broadcast in the Laredo market.
Then on September 1st of this year we announced the acquisition of KCRG in Cedar Rapids Iowa.
This ABC affiliate is an absolute job and we are formerly closed on it as on November 1st just a couple of days ago.
I would like to welcome the associates the viewers and all of the rust of being participant to KCRG to the Gray family.
Soon there often on September 14th we announce the cap to our year so far the acquisition the broadcast access of Schurz Communications adding seven superb and big unique stations to our growing company while it is distinctly premature I also want to publicly welcome the Schurz associates viewers and communities to Gray Television.
At the conclusion of the Schurz acquisition so that is that all we have pendent currently.
Gray will broadcast in 50 television markets and broadcast over 175 programs streams to viewers from Alaska to Maine and Texas to Wisconsin.
Most importantly as 2016 approaches quickly Gray has significant broadcasting asset in almost every battleground state in the country that are simply must buy stations if any politician hooks to carry that respective state.
Consequently we have enormous optimism about next year and the acquisitions that we have made this year and to the last couple of years have only enhanced our strategic position.
We also wants to stop and take a moment to thank TV news Jet for selecting Gray as it's station growth of the year.
We were quite surprised but very happy for the recognition.
The entire team of which is due to the hard working men and women who make what we predefine here in each of our markets that's compelling dealing.
Because without them not a single deal transaction were paired on shifting decision would have been possible.
We also announce yesterday that we had reached agreements to divest at the time of the closing of the Schurz transaction all regular assets we picked up in that deal.
We are very pleased with the quality of they are saying to be new owners of these radio stations.
We believe that we got a very fair price for them and we have continued to sit to our playbook of being a pure play television broadcaster with dominant news centered community focus stations nationwide.
With that I'll bring my formal comments to a close and turn it over to Kevin Latek.
Kevin.
Thank you Hilton.
With my time today I'm going to address three most frequently asked questions from our investors over the past several weeks.
First how is the Schurz transaction proceeding.
A short answer very well.
Within about the first 72 hours after announcing the Schurz acquisition Gray insurers filed our HSR application with [Indiscernible] adjustment filed all of our numerous FCC applications and had our first sit down meetings with the DOJ and with the FCC.
For the next two weeks we began quickly included an option to divest Schurz's South Bend station and our Wichita station both of which will be completed as you know as swaps with St.
Clair and Lockwood that will bring two more Gray stations to our portfolio.
Before we could even ink those deals and announce them we also managed to reach agreements that divest certain assets of Schurz radio Rapid City television station and separately to acquire KYES the local my network affiliate in Anchorage that we view as a natural complement to very strong local MBC affiliate that we are acquiring [Indiscernible].
As Hilton just mentioned yesterday we announced the sale of the Schurz radio station to three excellent local and family owned companies who will provide great leadership to those fine stations.
Meanwhile we have continued extensive and productive discussions with both the DOJ and the FCC.
So today just seven weeks after we announced the Schurz transaction we have made tremendous progress toward a pending regulatory approval.
Consequently we are able to reaffirm our original guidance by growing very close to Schurz transaction as well as all related transactions before the end of the first quarter of 2016.
[Indiscernible] mentioned over the week and we close the final steps of our acquisition KCRG and completed divestiture of our various online [Indiscernible] consequently the only pending transactions at this time and those we have announced back in after the Schurz specialties and report key.
Our second list popular question likely is will Gray participate in the FCCs spectrum auction.
The answer is yes but to a limited extent.
We have discussed on prior calls and at recent investment conferences that we do not expect the FCCs spectrum auction will present meaningful financial opportunities for Gray.
This is because we have few stations with markets with strong spectrum demands and even those stations that our markets with spectrum demand and to high higher enterprise values and the expected clearing price with our market.
When we announce the Schurz transaction we disclosed that we intended to play one of the Schurz television efficiency for the auction.
Typically WAGT and [Indiscernible] Georgia appears to have a high spectrum value for the auction we are able to move its programming settings to our existing stations in that market.
Thus placing the station into the option just takes with them.
Last month the FCC released opening bid prices for every television station in the country.
None of the opening bid prices are higher than we anticipated and much higher in some case.
We still believe that the auction will now present meaningful opportunities for Gray outside of WAGT and Augusta.
Nevertheless we are taking a close look at our options in the handful market.
If it appears to the auction could wait to significant proceeds beyond WAGT we will not hesitate to pursue those opportunities by filling an appropriate option application with the FCC by December deadline.
Finally our third most offered question currently is why as Gray building a national rev firm.
And the answer is we're not.
On August 31st we announce that we have notify the two national adds wells web firm to our decision to determinate that we all have our web agreements to the end of this year.
We recorded the special charges actually $1 million in the third quarter reflecting anticipated determination fees which will be paid in monthly installments both in the 2016 [Indiscernible] first half of 2017.
We also announced that we anticipate that expense savings due to determination of the national advertising with that contracts that have increased personal trend will be in the range of $8 million to $9 million 2016 with net savings continuing years or after.
Since that release you will also range determination to the national sales reputation chip that all of the televisions stations that we will acquire from Schurz and [Indiscernible] and each case is effected at the and at the closing or January 1st whichever is later.
Our decision to terminate the web firms is not a reflection of this the levels of service under the current agreement.
By that we simply came to the conclusion after full year of analysis that the quality of our stations combined with our new scale creates an opening for us and to our national sales directly.
We are not building a rep firm to replace or compete with the existing firm.
Under our new approach all but two of our stations will deal directly with our national advertising clients and agencies.
Precisely as all of our stations now deal directly with local clients and agencies.
We've hired two former reps to [Indiscernible] our station activities we may hire a few additional account reps right across our stations and that's about it.
We will not open the step office is in the trade Chicago or in a Los Angles.
We have a great ability in building a new office in Manhattan we simply do not believe that those expenses are necessary to accomplish our job are effective.
Importantly roughly one part of our stations already handle national sales directly.
Including as we acquire KCRG and [Indiscernible] which like many of Gray's existing stations have had not had a national rep for several years.
These stations have certainly held their own in national buys we therefore can reiterate today that we expect that our new strategy on national sales will have a marginally positive impact on national advertising revenues in 2016 and beyond.
But those are our most frequently asked questions I'm sure there are some additional ones I want to say to [Indiscernible] This concludes my remarks and I turn the call over to Jim Ryan.
Thank you.
Well.
Thank you Kevin and good morning everyone As Hilton and Kevin have said we are very pleased with the results for our Q3 and your year-to-date Q3.
I'm going to focus most of my comments on what we call the combined historical results where we took Gray's actual results and combined them with the historical results of the acquisitions that we've been doing both in 2015 and 2014 to have the most comparable data available for you.
We are very pleased with our combined historical revenue it is for the third quarter actually as notable in 2015 been a non-political year is actually a little bit ahead by about 2% of the comparable quarter into 2014 political year and we have the same thing going on in year-to-date results with the non-political year been about 6% ahead of the political year and this is the first time that we can recall that we've been able to do that in a non-political year going to get some political year.
As both Hilton and Kevin commented we did make the final closing on our Cedar Rapids station on November 1st but as you may recall we actually started to pre-closing element effective as of September 1st so Cedar Rapids are was in our numbers for the month of September on an as reported basis and it had a couple of million dollars of revenue about a million dollars expense in a little bit over million dollars of cash flow and we were delighted at its performance in September and look forward for a very good fourth quarter in early part of next year specially with the Iowa political city.
Q3 net revenue again we were very pleased with the results local was up 9% and national was up 10% that was in line with the high side of the guidance we had issued and our political was stronger than we had expected a 4.9 million we continue to see good trends in fourth quarter political more spending and we had expected we think that's the good sign for 2016 in general.
On the operating expense side combined to historical for Q3 we were up 18% by about little over 15 million we've going to get as we've talked about many times over the past several lines call.
Our reverse comp to our networks was up about $11.8 million we did take the onetime omni charge to make the national were up agreements that Kevin discussed and that was a 6.1 million charge in the quarter and as we've said as we announced that we expect to save more than that run rate next year over and above that $6 million charge.
Most notably our payroll and benefits cost were flat quarter-over-quarter and if you exclude the reverse comp that's increasing both because the gross comp is increasing as well as CBS being paid for the first time this year.
Our actual core what we call core base cost are down about 2.5 million and we are very pleased with that.
Year to date again local was up 6 we are very pleased National was up 4 Political were 8.5 million again which is higher than we expected and we are very pleased to see that and again on the cost side where we were up about the 31 million for the nine months ended the reverse comp is actually up 34 million are again if you exclude the onetime charge for the National up -- total National up termination our core nine month run rate it is actually down about 9.5 million and we were proud of the work we have been able to on the core expenses.
We are pleased with the category trends in Q3 and turning now to guidance for Q4 we are pleased with what we are seeing overall again focusing on the combined historical guidance for Q4 we think local will up be healthy 3% to 5% National is going to be down a little bit that is we think somehow reflective of a little softness in Chrysler [Dodge] but actually the rest of the rest of the trend line for fourth quarter is looking pretty good and on a combine local-national basis for fourth quarter.
We are currently about 87% of last year's final with two months left to go selling in the quarters so we feel very good about our directionality in Q4 and obviously our Political again is tracking a little bit higher than we expected and probably has the ability to hopefully coming in all bit strongly even when what are guidance is suggested.
And obliviously with the nine months numbers in our guidance for Q4 what at it is implying as that we accept.
Again on a four year basis for combine historical results with 2015 local would be up somewhere around 5% over 2014 and our full year national would should be up somewhere in the 2% to 3% so all in all we think 2015 on a non-political year has been very solid we are very pleased with what we have seen so far and we are going Q4 and again we are pleased with a political trends in Q4 as well.
Turning to the balance sheet a little bit are leverage is calculated under our senior credit facility as is define in the senior credit facility with 5.15 times and as we said in the body of our release if you actually netted all the cash on our balance sheet off we actually are trailing a quarter leverage ratios about 4.9 times.
Senior leverage as defined in the credit agreement was about 2.6 times.
CapEx during the quarter was just shy of 7 million just over 15 million year to date and we think we will finish the year somewhere between 20 million and 25 million.
Cash tax is still within expectation with a de minimis amount in Q3 we are still expecting somewhere between 1.5 million and 2.5 million for the year.
Full year combined historical for programming payments is tracking at about $15 million to $16 million and the amortization is in the [same as it was].
We are very pleased with where we have seen our retransmission revenue growing to and -- we know that detail is in the body of the release.
At this point Hilton Ill turn it back to you.
Alright great.
Thank you Jim.
Operator we would like to open up the line for any questions any may have.
[Operator instruction].
And our first question will come from Aaron Watts with Deutsche Bank.
Jim one quick housekeeping question to make sure I am understanding right the 6 million charge for the national sales effort and the 3.8 million of expenses tied to your M&amp;A activity most of those depress the EBITDA on the quarter is that correct? Yes and both of those amounts were not included in our original guidance that we issued in conjunctions with our 2Q call.
Both of those events occurred afterwards and when we issued our press release about the red firm termination we did spot light that 6.1 million at that point in time but we are still even whether you include them or exclude them we are still very pleased with what came out in the quarter.
Got it okay perfect.
And then secondly just on the advertising environment as we think about the cadence from 2Q you saw an acceleration into 3Q a little bit less of a growth rate as you moved in to fourth quarter with what you seeing there can you maybe just talk about what's driving the ebbs and flows and then also maybe a comment on auto which I think was down in the second quarter on a combined basis but you saw nice pop in the third and maybe how thats trending into the fourth? Yes again we are very pleased with the pop as in third in auto we dont necessarily have a full explanation for that but it's -- we are very happy to be the recipients for that in Q3 I think it maybe just how the ebb and flow of markets get targeted from quarter to quarter by the auto industry.
Fourth quarter auto right now appears to be okay.
As I said the only thing we seeing a little softness is that [indiscernible] and that is looking to us like just some routing rotation between our size markets and dollars looking like it's maybe going to other markets during the fourth quarter.
In general we see fourth quarter is healthy with the core combined in the call it 4% to 5% zip code so it's maybe a little bit less of the growth part of many Q3 but we saying frankly we just had an outstanding Q3.
We are very happy with what we generally seeing in Q4 and think it's a good finish to the year accounted on whether those -- on the combine historically the core local-national is going to come out in a healthy growth rate year-over-year and we are happy with that.
Our next question will come from Marci Ryvicker with Wells Fargo Securities.
Thanks.
Two questions you mentioned well we know political came in that has been expected in the third quarter so I guess the first question is where those specific market to the broad base and if you have a little bit like just fourth quarter guidance I think you said to Jim is a big conservative? And then secondly on your portfolio into M&amp;A plans is it correct to assume you're sort of on the side line at this point and tell us still is integrated or is there a situation where you can consider raising equity at the right time came along? Thank you.
Marci Ill take the first part of your question on political.
Certainly we benefited with Cedar Rapids in for the month of September and that had -- they contributed probably call its $400 000 to $500 000 of the political number and certainly we will benefits from Cedar Rapids in Q4 and obviously with IO Power Techs in -- through ramp in a quickly I think thats the market we are -- we probably had the most potential to -- have some pleasant surprises but as we have discuss many times protecting political is nearly impossible because you never really know what the dim dollars are and what you order as an political in a firm that makes [indiscernible] so we also picked up that hour and kicked that issue with the governors raise and the rest of that I would say is scheduled around a little bit nothing in early a couple of markets we have a some early spend for 60 very early spend not huge dollars but again inclusion that the directly -- spending a few dollars we run there for 60 already.
Let me-- Marci this Hilton and let me begin and maybe Kevin will follow up on our portfolio and our M&amp;A strategy.
The first I want to tell you is that we are defiantly not the side lines we have no acquisition targets that are currently imminent but we are looking at but if you look in our track record over the course of this year and really previous two years u know that we move very very quick and in a very disciplined way and so what you would see from us is similar to what you have seen in the past but opportunities in this current environment come up unexpectedly and we don't have anything imminent we sure wouldn't want to be characterized as being on the side lines.
That been said with regard to your question about the issuance of the equity we obviously went to the markets at the end of March and did raise equity and the company has no current plans to do that.
As things stand we think 2016 is going to pretty much dramatically be [lever Gray television] all by itself so we dont have any plans currently to go to the equity markets.
I really am quite positive about our prospects of closing the Schurz transaction in a very prompt fashion and I think the radio divestitures that we announced yesterday we help getting along in that process and so we are still out there looking.
Kevin you want to follow up with that? I want to just add a little color.
This year our transaction with the stations in a debt [that when falls first kind of in] Cedar Rapids.
Ill move very quickly the longest of those station acquisitions the time without an NDA the time we signed purchase counter was two weeks and I dont think anybody has a track record of moving that quickly let alone doing it on the all four acquisitions this year but that ensures it all move very quickly given the size of that transaction.
And my point is that while we have nothing eminent today and the [Indiscernible] tomorrow with an excellent target that we would very much like to pursue and we could move quickly if there is an agreement on price.
But the way we think about this as we have we think in a pattern here what number one TB stations and mid-size small markets our work through us but they works to the market and now there is a lot of good things will like a [Indiscernible] as we look at where we are in the cycle this is probably not a bad time if the right opportunity came along and it had an accretive and otherwise a good terms transaction now maybe the time to pursue that and that means putting up your leverage ratio up just a little bit now is the time to do that as we go into a big political year as opposed to say a year from now.
Again just emphasize there is nothing eminent we are not looking for any more or transaction we are really focused almost seven days a week on pushing shares over the finish line and the political transactions over to finish line after then anyone as [Indiscernible] but we could get the right thing came along at the right price at with someone be interested in having that conversation.
Our next question will come from Lance Vitanza with CRT Capital Group.
Hi.
Thanks guys I have the few questions if I can.
The first on the same station revenue growth the core revenue growth really strong up 9% 10% local national respectively.
Did we acquired stations augment or detract from that performance I understands that stations but if we think about the trends and what you've acquired versus what you've been running for a period of time can we join decision there? I think if they are about they are doing well and there is heavily it gets down to in any given year one particular market will tend to do a little bit better than another and they will all trade back and forth a little bit and the portfolio of this 50 stations but I dont think there is any big difference between the acquired stations and the legacy stations.
The acquired stations in some cases might be certainly or up a little bit would be up naturally in re-trans because of being able to apply after acquired clauses but if you just look in and thinking about local and national again it's going to be more due to with the individual characteristics of that market in this year versus last year than any broad trend? Got you.
On the political side and I did hear the comments regarding Q3 and Q4 but we've been looking forward to 2016 for a few years now.
Do you think expectations might have got and bit ahead of themselves especially considering the democrats [Indiscernible] annoying that [Indiscernible] will got any kind of the primary sight? We still have strong expectations for 2016 before we perform for it for Schurz the 2012 political was about a 141 million where we've said many times that our general expectation is '16 should be better it will be better than '12 from the political stand point I think even if there is even in the one side if there is a strong candidate so that the democratic primaries are somewhat muted certainly the republic and primaries has got a ways to go yet given the debts of their field and have been flow some of their candidate I would think and in general the real heavy spending doesnt comment until well after the primaries are done and the general election is on and we have said repeatedly that which historically and we dont know why and obviously '16 could be a little different.
But historically in every political cycle we've seen so far at least half of the political spend of the years goes up to the fourth quarter.
So the real money comes out when it's down to the two candidates of each party.
Great.
And then just on the re-trends run if I take the 17.5 million of incremental gross re-trends you reported on the same station bases.
Actually to track out the 11.8 million increase in reverse comp I get a $5.7 million increase in net re-trends as it were to about a 33% margin.
Is that the right way to think about the flow through on incremental growth re-trends going forward? No because the numbers that I think your numbers are approximately right.
Let's go back to map I think the answer would be no but as those are that those combined historical are simply adding the result the historical results of the various acquisitions the real one way at a go forward basis is going to be better than that as we apply are after required clauses and again we are comfortable over '15 '16 '17 at least that are net even after Schurz is fully rolled in and everything is applied there that not retrains probably running right around a 50-50 split.
Next we take a question from David Aber from Wells Fargo Securities.
Just on the retrains appreciate the commentary on net but is there anything you could give us on how do model 2016 retrains on the growth side and how many subscribers you are renewing next year? Prior to Schurz we have less than a million subscribers renewing at the end of this year and we have got about 3.5 millions subscribers renewing at the end of '16 going into '17 now again those subscriber counts are roughly a $10.2 million total subscriber base and that is prior to Schurz and on page 15 of our September investor presentation thats out on our website we again pre-Schurz we have rolled out '15 '16 and '17 both gross estimated reverse component in that numbers.
So we will see a little bump next year with a few subscribers we have got to replace this year and we will obviously see some normal accelerators within our existing agreements but the next opportunity is to take a nice step in the gross number and as well as net number would be 60 going in to 70.
Okay thank you.
And then digit was down slightly on a pro forma basis just curious how thats looking for the fourth quarter and I know you talked about the spin sort of a regrouping year so do you anticipate having some momentum heading into 2016 on the internet side? I think as we go through '16 things will improve I think it will be a year that kind of ramps rather than just jumps right out of the gate which kind of makes sense fourth trend I would expect it to be a somewhat soft but we have said this year was a regrouping year and kind of refocusing and so we are not surprise with what we have seen and I think '16 all will pick up this the year goes along.
Okay thank you and then last question your 7.5% bonds in our [call go] just curious if you foresee a refinancing opportunities at some point and kind of a follow up to that question given your increasing size and that potential refi opportunity just curious how important it is to you to have moody perhaps upgrade your rating? Well certainly we would also wipe like as an upgrade so with that is -- thats going to be up to moody I think the bond investment community is always wait a little bit past that and we have traditionally price ingratiate a more align with S&amp;P has on another.
That being said we will be thoughtful on a bond called I think a lot will depend on what the market is doing and just how attractive the NPV is on a new rate that while we are on a first call period that's a pretty expensive call for us.
So I think we will be thoughtful and opportunistic I guess is how Ill characterize that and is a practical matter while maybe the market might present a great opportunity for us again when we have to be very thoughtful.
I think we are at more on client to get Schurz of clause then in and then start thinking how they are about what we will do with bonds then try to do something very very quickly.
[Operator Instructions].
Our next question comes from Jim Goss with Barrington Research.
Thank you.
You have probably noted that you are on broadcast and I believe what the D.C.
Bureau and I am wondering if there is any meaning to that right now besides the [flag] in the ground and given that this a political season this is the opportunity to create added meaning for that and maybe you can discuss those options and what potential financial impact you might have from that presence? Kevin Ill take that.
Since we announced our launch of our D.C.
Bureau over to year [indiscernible] has launched its D.C.
Bureau as well so it's no longer the only pure play broadcaster with a Bureau [indiscernible] our folks are doing already.
Bureau exist to provide content to our local stations that are not available otherwise and [indiscernible] as a Bureau.
The news director in the market contacts the DC Bureau and write down this personally registration around the [Indiscernible] etcetera were doing that it helps the local product and within the local product has a benefit in lot of minds there is no [Indiscernible] attached to this is not a very specific investment for us all but it is certainly have in its ratio profile with the politicians and we think the providing a better service to the local communities and I can't give you the direct measure of what that means to us but we do think it is and they are positive to us.
In terms of political revenue we've not made any type being covered [Indiscernible] that were providing and but we've made in [Indiscernible] but if you think that's a general matter in the whole ways and it's available to help them but they will have only and they were positive station of us and they may have another station that we can compete with.
Well that translates to changes in the political ad volume by their agencies their campaigns this impacts I doubt it but [Indiscernible] so I think the bottom line is that bureau was an inexpensive [indiscernible] for us to have a unique focus on content that's the way we think of it.
And Kevin is there an ability to create an [indiscernible] aspect by maybe involving some affiliates.
There are some other stations net on by Gray that are in other markets they you may want to partner with? That is a good session.
We thought about that.
Wwe would want to be selective in that we dont think in stations kind of same body news cast and operations whatwe have are not already owned by one of our market competitors so that's a specially just our process if nor potential user base at this time we are still focusing in find step up to cover the increase base stations we want this year and we need to make sure we have the right talent in place suburb stations before we think about adding talent in infrastructure for additional stations so I dont see a lot of potential customers out there for it and at this point I can't I don't think we are going to have much time due to higher before '16 enough people to cover all of our stations as well as some additional station that we dont in that but I think possible but probably not until after '16 seen that we have folks should be on the road a lot this facility have a full staff we focused on the Gray stations not on [Indiscernible] Okay alright.
And just one other thing Jim you and I were conversation or discussing the sort of the convergence of Olympics and political next August at least in terms of your NBC affiliates and I think you had indicated that the convergence of those two actually could maybe increase your political opportunities rather than sort of displace them and I wondered if you might talk about the supply demand pricing impact of those two elements coming along and how that might play in either in your own NBC affiliates or the non-NBC affiliates? Well with regard to the NBC affiliates there are certainly that opportunity if the Olympics are marquee programming's so we would normally be pricing that inventory out on a premium basis and then if you if indeed there are political advertisers that are interested in getting into that marquee programming and those probably fairly extensive viewership that certainly can drive the pricing on political as well we've mentioned this before but all party money all political action committee money is fairly up priced and supply in demand so if you just got a super pack that really wants to be in a certain program at a certain time and if there is the pricing can go up dramatically and in very short order so there is certainly that potential it will be a terrific problem to have and now how that actually plays out next year will have to wait until after August and after the Olympics are over but it certainly a possibility that can you give us a little boost on August with our political that also being said which is on a so much inventory we have available and associates and with Olympic so but it could be a high class problem to have next summer.
Normally Olympic dollars as far as the stealing dollars from other stations in the market yes there could be a little of that in that buyers will deliberately budget it in Olympic years some dollars to be on the Olympics so that may cause some shifting of dollars a little bit from quarter-to-quarter and then third quarter of next year with the Olympics it could be very well again when we have NBCs we'll be doing very well and we feel a shifting away from the CBSs and ABCs at the same point in time a little bit of that depends on the obviously we have got a portfolio of very strong stations so if the Olympics is on a week NBC in a market while there is heavy affect it's not preannounced as if the NBC was a strong number one like many of RMBCs.
And next we will take a question from Leo Kulp with RBC Capital Markets.
I think Jim you mentioned that you are normalize core expenses ex-reverse count for gain couple of percent in the quarter can you try little color around what have been a drivers there and then we are looking out at the 2016 how should we think about overall expense growth? In the quarter again combine historical I think the biggest driver of the core expenses being down would be a the basically payroll of cost for quarter-over-quarter was flat and we are down on a year-to-date basis a little about almost $2 million so that helps a lot in managing the overall number.
We also saw some natural savings in professional services this quarter over last year.
We were involved in converting many of our stations to our WideOrbit Traffic System which is our -- is the traffic system we use and we were going through an extensive implementation training phase all throughout last year thats certainly well in balance for legacy stations and the acquisitions we made in '14 and '13 and we obviously have a little bit of that going on in some cases for the '15 acquisitions but picked up some grounds [indiscernible] that is well.
Our next question will come from Dennis Leibowitz with Act II Partners.
Thanks you had mentioned I think in the past perform of that free cash flow per share on average for 2013-2014 was a $1.93 you talked about I think 35 million free cash flow on average for the Schurz stations if you subtract the cost of debt income up was 217 per share free cash flow on average for '15-'16 without any growth next year is my math correct? You did a lot of [indiscernible] so what I was said even we have said several times in earlier calls as well in presentation we have been making we certainly expect the free cash flow per share in '16 to be better than '14 and -- you say '15 timeframe or you out '16-'17? Well I thought the figure you gave was '13-'14 do I am talking about '15-'16.
Yes so again we would very much said that '15 is better than '13 and then we certainly expect '16 to be better than '14.
I am not sure if Schurz as well? Yes.
Our next question will come from Barry Lucas with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Thank you and good morning and thanks for to Dennis for providing a good opening.
Hilton we talked a little bit about this perform a new kind enough to address the free cash flow for the quarter and year to date so on a comeback to capital allocation return a cash to share holders it seem to be hitting on at least eight cylinders today so what goes in to your thinking about returning cash is it that the M&amp;A is priority that you have cover instead or a little too restrictive or what should we looking for down the road in terms of those return of cash to shareholders? I think my answer is similar to what it was last quarter but Ill try to reallocate.
I do think that the cores in a short term is continuing to grow the footprint of Gray Television.
The industry is consolidating very very very quickly and so if you have to ask me what is our first providing I would say that will be as a shareholder with most of mine net [indiscernible] in this company.
I would very much personally and professionally like to see us how not just to buyback but it do have attacks to our common shares I dont think that time is imminent not next six to nine months.
But I can see when we get our leverage down and we see what our political release is going to be in 2016 then we have that opportunity to do that.
But once we do it we want to make sure that we are very very cautious.
I think that we have demonstrated to the market that we tried to have delivered exactly what we said we were going to do.
And when we access the public markets in March there were some skepticism about our ability to grow our our portfolio but we knew that we have that ability one way or another and that's allowed us to really do fantastic things in 2015.
So I guess the way of saying it is which heard of capital to shareholders and [Indiscernible] there is something that I would definitely recommend at some point through our Board of Directors who would always take the final decision makers there.
But I think that the most eminent and top core agent is continuing to grow we need to get through this option so we cannot help things go and taken a assessment at that time.
Got your answered [Indiscernible] [Operator Instructions] And I'd now like to take our next question from John Huh with Wells Fargo Securities.
Hey guys thanks for taking the questions.
Jim can you just clarify with onetime costs are embedded into the Q4 sense I'm little confused by the way they were in the release and how much stock based comp is included in the corporate guide? Okay first of all the onetime cost and those would be in the corporate numbers is -- right now we think we would probably have about 3.5 million of a continuing deal cost in Q4 either associated with the cleanup of the deals we've already done this year or continuing to move the Schurz transaction forward through the regulatory process.
Yes and again we think we've clearly said we think when peers would be closed by the end of first quarter in 2016.
If Schurz and we should be fortunate enough to have a close essentially at the end of 2015 we would then pick up probably $5 million to $7 million more of final deal cost a lot of that is just M&amp;A fees and final closing legal fees.
But that five to seven that is mentioned in the guidance is only if Schurz should happen to close in Q4 and it is not currently in the guide of the numbers that we've said in the chart of approximately nine to 10 if that same set of dollars if we dont close in Q4 will probably feel into would obviously feel into Q1.
Does that answer that question John.
Yes perfect that's very helpful.
And then how much stock based comp is in the corporate guidance.
Probably about 800 000 real quick looking at.
Operator any other questions? I dont get any response here to my question.
So my assumption is that there are no further questions and so I just want to take this opportunity to thank each and every one of you for attending our earnings call and for your questions.
We look forward to bringing our Schurz transaction to an end and I'm really looking forward to all of the opportunity that 2016 is going to present to us.
Thank you for being here and we'll talk to you next quarter.
Welcome to Gray Television's Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Hilton Howell President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good afternoon everyone.
Welcome to the fourth quarter and year end 2015 earnings call of Gray Television.
It was a year of great achievement and record financial results for our Company.
For both the quarter and year-end Gray proudly reported record revenue record earnings and record broadcast and free cash flow.
For the quarter and year-end Gray achieved revenue of $169.5 million and $597.4 million respectively.
Also for the quarter our broadcast cash flow was $0.40 per share and for the year $1.36 per share or $67.8 million and $224.5 million respectively.
Net income was $0.21 per share for the quarter $0.57 per share for the year.
I would also like to remind you that this year's results contain a special charge relating to our termination of our national sales agreements of approximately $6.1 million.
But we expect to save in 2016 and each year thereafter between $8 million and $9 million of recurring savings from this change.
As we reflect on 2015 we added significantly to our portfolio of market leading stations.
Specifically to remind you we acquired KOSA TV the dominant number one CBS affiliate in Midland Odessa Texas; KNBT the CBS and KSVT the FOX in Twin Falls Idaho a similarly dominant station.
We acquired the FOX affiliation in Wausau Wisconsin which we re-christened WZAW and which now broadcasts with our CBS affiliate WSAW in that market.
We acquired WAGM the CBS and FOX affiliate in Presque Isle Maine a completely dominant market and station.
We acquired KVTV the CBS affiliate in Laredo Texas which is now broadcasting with all of our other affiliated broadcasts in the Laredo Texas market.
We added KCRG the political powerhouse ABC affiliate in Cedar Rapids Iowa.
And we announced and had closed last week on the purchase of the broadcast assets of Schurz Communications.
After giving effect to the required divestitures and swaps that we entered into Gray has just added KWCH the CW affiliate and KSCW the CW affiliate in Wichita Kansas.
Known locally at [indiscernible] it is the top ranked and highest grossing station in Wichita.
We added last week WDBJ the CBS affiliate in Roanoke Lynchburg Virginia our third Virginia station a similarly dominant number one ranked and highest grossing station in Lynchburg Roanoke Virginia.
We added KYTV an ABC affiliate and KCZ the CW affiliate in Springfield Missouri.
Known locally as KY3 it is the number one ranked and highest grossing station in that market.
We also acquired WAGT the NBC and CW affiliate in Augusta Georgia which will broadcast alongside our WRDW CBS affiliate in Augusta.
We moved on and acquired KTUU the NBC affiliate in Anchorage Alaska.
KTUU is the number one ranked and highest grossing station in Anchorage and in fact it is the most watched and highest grossing television station in the entire state of Alaska.
We also have KYES the MYTV affiliate pending FCC approval in Anchorage.
We also acquired KOTA the ABC affiliate in Rapid City South Dakota.
KOTA is the number one ranked and highest grossing station in the market and will broadcast alongside our KEVN FOX in Cedar Rap or Rapid City.
Through swaps we also closed on WBXX the CW affiliate in Knoxville Tennessee which will broadcast alongside our WDLT CBS affiliate in Knoxville.
And finally we now own WLUC the NBC and FOX affiliate in Marquette Michigan.
WLUC was formerly a part of Sinclaire broadcast group and is the number one ranked and highest grossing station in Marquette.
We swapped KAKE in Wichita for WBXX in Knoxville plus $11 million in cash and we swapped Schurz's WSBT in South Bend where we currently own WNDU the NBC affiliate to acquire WLUC in Marquette.
We also added four new affiliations in Madison Wisconsin the CW in Madison Wisconsin the CW in Fargo North Dakota the CW in Alexandria Louisiana and the CW in Laredo Texas expanding our affiliation with the CW network to 23 markets making Gray the second largest CW affiliate group in the nation.
I would like to publicly welcome all of these fantastic television stations employees viewers and communities to the Gray Television corporate family.
Gray now owns dominant market leading TV stations in 50 markets and broadcasts approximately 180 separate program streams including 35 CBS stations 26 NBC stations 19 ABC stations 13 FOX stations and 23 CW stations.
Gray was also named TVNewsCheck Station Group of the Year for 2016 a recognition that we're quite proud of.
While 2015 was truly a year of great achievement it's had its share of sorrows as our long-time Chairman Dr.
Billy Mayher recently passed away.
He was a strong and steady supporter of Gray and our strategic vision.
He will be missed.
With that I will turn the call over to Jim Ryan.
Jim? Thank you Hilton.
Good afternoon everybody.
I'm going to keep my comments brief because I think most of the information's pretty well laid out in the Earnings Release and our 10-K will be filed this afternoon as well.
I'm going to focus my comments on the combined historical which gives effect to all of the acquisitions we completed in 2015.
The combined historical in the Earnings Release however would not give effect to the Schurz transaction and related transactions since those are 2016 events.
But in fourth quarter we were very pleased with our overall results in revenue.
Our local was up about 7%.
On a combined basis local and national was up 5%.
We were very pleased with that.
Retransmission was very strong as we had expected all year and have certainly been talking about along the way.
We were also pleased that our broadcast expenses were tightly managed and actually if you back out the increase in reverse comp associated with the very strong retransmission revenue growth in the quarter our actual core expenses were down about $2 million.
So we were very very pleased with that.
On a full year basis again we've with been very happy with our results.
Our local is up 6% combined local and national up 4%.
We had record setting political on a combined historical basis in 2015 at $17.7 million.
And certainly KCRG was a very strong performer as expected for us in that combined historical political number.
As we had talked about in our third quarter call we did terminate our national rep agreements and gone to a direct service model with our stations.
We did have in the year a $6.3 million OTO charge that we announced in third quarter.
But even if you exclude that charge as well as the increase in reverse comp again our core expenses are actually down year-over-year and we're very pleased at that.
During the quarter as well as the year we saw good growth in auto medical communications furniture.
In general most of our categories were up both on a year-to-date basis and the quarter.
Turning briefly to the balance sheet.
We had $1.2 million of debt at the end of the quarter.
Our leverage ratio as defined in our Senior Credit Facility was at 5.1 times on a trailing eight quarter basis and so we were pleased with that.
It was coming in right where we expected.
And as we have said consistently with the Schurz transaction closing last week our pro forma leverage now is at 5.5 times exactly where we expected it to be.
We had $97 million of cash on hand at the end of the year and we think we're in a very good position with both the cash and the free cash flow that we'll generate during the course of this year to have the ability to work on our debt balances especially late in the year when the bulk of the political in 2016 will be coming in.
At this point I'll turn the call over to Kevin for his comments.
Thank you Jim.
2015 as you all know is a transformative year for Gray.
In just the first nine months of the year as you know we entered into and closed six separate transactions adding seven television stations in five markets around the country.
In September we announced - take the national sales in house [Technical Difficulty].
Two weeks after that of course we announced the Schurz transaction.
Two weeks after that we announced that we had completed a very quick auction of the stations with overlap markets that allowed us to swap stations with Lockwood and Sinclair that we had been attempting to acquire frankly for some time.
Two weeks after that we announced we completed a second very quick auction that resulted in divestiture of all the Schurz radio stations.
Through the fourth quarter of 2015 and the first two months of this year we have focused intently on obtaining regulatory approval for the Schurz acquisition - transaction ensuring smooth integration in the transition of stations into the Gray family as well as preparing for and executing the transition - sales - local stations.
You wonder how do we top all this in 2016.
Our M&amp;A activity last year resulted from the confluence of several factors including our equity raise last spring as well as - Gray's.
Nevertheless no transactions are imminent at this time.
And we do not expect significant activity - 2016.
It appears to us that broadcasters generally are focused on the FCCs Spectrum Auction - as well as a truly interesting and potentially quite lucrative election season.
One lesson from last year however is that we cannot predict when the phone might ring next with potential acquisition opportunities.
Over the past 28 months Gray has been transformed into a Company with significant scale high quality portfolio excellent financial results and a much stronger balance sheet.
As a result we do not feel a desperate need to acquire more television stations now since we - we will continue to maintain the same acquisition criteria that has served Gray well not just for the past 28 months but the past 20 plus years.
Specifically we will only pursue opportunities to you acquire number one or strong number two ranked station that fit our - and values.
And only then if the acquisition can be completed under reasonable terms and immediately accretive to our shareholders.
Beyond acquisitions the FFC Spectrum Auction will be a big theme this year.
The FCC; however has indicated a strong interest in only a few of our 90 stations.
We will focus considerable time energy and attention on the auction over the next few months.
Locally many of our stations are already spending a good amount of down time filling orders from campaigns interest groups and of course super pacs.
Most of the air time in the media I want to remind you that there are also a number of contested statewide elections across our markets especially in the U.S.
Senate.
We operate in most presidential swing states and many other contested markets and again we operate the number one or number two ranked television stations in every one of those markets.
Finally 2016 is a transition for us with regard to national sales.
As you heard from Jim and Hilton we terminated our national sales reps from nearly all of our legacy stations on January 1 of this year.
And we add today that we have also terminated the rep contracts from the newly acquired stations that we closed on this month.
In a fourth quarter our leadership team and a lot of our station managers met personally with nearly all of the national agencies and advertisers.
They also planned extensively for a smooth transition from national sales and rep agencies to Gray both operationally and technologically.
Due in part to the extensive planning the transition has gone very smoothly.
Our stations are now interacting directly with their buyers.
We have received uniformly positive feedback from our stations and the buyers.
At this point we believe we made an excellent decision.
While 2015 was a transformative and busy year for Gray we certainly expect 2016 will be equally exciting and we look forward to the opportunities before us.
With that I'll turn the call back to Hilton.
Thank you Kevin.
Operator if we could open up the line for any questions.
[Operator Instructions].
We'll take our first question from Aaron Watts with Deutsche Bank.
Couple questions from me.
Wanted to ask about the advertising environment.
It seems like you had he local at least slow down a little bit as you moved from 4Q into 1Q.
Maybe you could talk about what you're seeing on that marketplace.
We're generally pleased with what we're seeing so far this year.
The rate is a little slower as you said from Q4 into Q1.
But keeping in mind that I guess GDP just came out this morning at plus 1 and we're showing local at probably closer to plus 3 we're not dissatisfied with that and as we just came off of a general manager meeting earlier this week and I'd say the tone was good.
What we did see in the quarter is that January both local and nationally started a little slow and then things picked up in February and March.
And that sometimes will happen in January just takes a little while for people to get over the holidays and get back to work.
As you look at the national side recognizing you're going through a transition there with how you're approaching it can you talk about some of the dynamics there what's weighing on national more than what you're seeing on the local side.
You've got to keep in mind first of all the national number is pretty small.
Even if it's down a little you're literally only talking about a couple hundred thousand dollars difference or few hundred thousand dollars difference.
Fluctuations like that in national are going to come and go quarter to quarter.
It has absolutely nothing to do with our transition as Kevin mentioned.
Our direct serve model is going very well and actually many agencies have commented about how well pleased they have been so far with that transition.
So we're not going to worry too much about national.
The thing we're going to really look at and focus on is the local.
And then one last one from me.
It's a bit bigger picture and I've run this past your peer as well.
But with the financial markets choppy concerns around the economy if things were to take a turn for the worse I'm curious how you think about your current mix of business and your footprint versus where Gray was back in 2008 2009 and that time frame and your ability to sustain a pullback in the economy in advertising and Jim maybe tied to that I know debt leverage levels got uncomfortably high through the last downturn.
How does that leave you thinking about your leverage now and where you'd like to take it over the next maybe year or two.
We're very comfortable with our leverage right now at 5.5 closed all-in with Schurz and as we've commented publicly a couple of times that will go down lower by the end of this year significantly lower into the fours if you assume we take all the free cash flow we generate this year and pay down debt.
As far as footprint positioning of the Company now versus call it 2008 2009 2007 I would point everybody to slide 22 in our investor presentation that's posted.
It's the one that's labeled February 2016 that's our retransmission slide.
And in 2016 on a net basis we have over $100 million of net retrans revenue flowing to the bottom line and in 2008 obviously it was a very very different Company and didn't have nearly the size of the footprint.
But we only had $3 million in 2008.
So we've got $100 million of net additional cash flow now than we had had before.
That makes me very very comfortable with the he positioning of the Company even if the macro economy pulls back for a little while got.
Okay just one Claire fire on that you're going to generate a lot of free cash flow this year.
To the extent you don't have acquisition opportunities is deleveraging going to occur not only through growth in the business also real actual principal debt paydown? Absent M&amp;A activity I would expect a that yes.
Next from Wells Fargo we have Marci Ryvicker.
Couple questions Jim.
Political came in a bit better in the fourth quarter relative to the guidance and then it looks like it's decelerating into Q1 looking at the Q1 guide.
Can you just talk about maybe a timing difference and how we should think about Q1 maybe for the rest of the year so we get our model sort of settled out.
Of course we're always a little conservative on political quarter to quarter simply because it's nearly impossible to accurately he predict as we've discussed many times.
But in general the roughly $8 million of political for Q1 is tracking basically right at our expectations for Q1.
If anything we were pleasantly surprised in January in the Cedar Rapids it actually did better than we had expected.
So that $8 million number right now is basically right where we thought.
Our historically our political revenue in every cycle through 2014 half of our political revenue or more has always shown up in the fourth quarter.
So even if some of that shifts earlier this time around it's still a lot and we aren't anticipating seeing massive amounts of political until probably call it late August call it September through election day.
And that would be typical of every pattern we've seen over the last 20 years.
And then can you just clarify the savings from.
Is it the full $8 million to $9 million or is it the $8 million to $9 million minus the charge that we kind of put on a number on going forward.
On a go forward basis it would exclude the charge 8 to 9 and that would be conservative because it would also - that number would not have considered the savings we'll also get with the Schurz stations as well.
Okay.
And then just want to clarify the combined historical numbers for the first quarter that 180 to 184 whatever it was that does not include Schurz? That would in the guidance section for Q1 combined historical as you said the revenue on the high side at 184 and there's a companion expense number we called out as well.
He's those do include Schurz on a full quarter basis.
And as a side note we're still collecting final 2015 data from our counterparties in all of those transactions and we will be publishing updated fully pro forma 2015 information in the coming weeks once we've gotten all the data in and have been able to digest it organize it and republish it.
That's definitely on our to do list.
We still have missing some pieces to complete that.
Next we'll hear from Leo cope with RBC Capital Markets.
Just a couple.
First on the 1Q2016 political outlook how is that pacing versus the pro forma 1Q 2012 results? I don't have 1Q 2012 pro forma but I can tell you that the $8 million actual is at least double what our historical number was in 2012.
And then your digital revenues were down this year or last year 2015.
Should we expect growth to return this year? Yes we would expect growth in digital this year.
And then final one when you think about your political budget and the political spending how are you thinking about the impact of - impact on spending if Trump gets the Republican nomination? We think regardless of who the nominees are on either side at the end of the day it is going to be a record shattering year political for the entire industry and it will be a record breaking year for us as well.
We have said consistently that in 2012 we did $143 million pro forma of political and we do think at the end of the day when it's all said and done it's going to be larger than that number by how much we're not going to venture that guess.
We're not that smart to be able to guess it accurately but we do think it will be a record year for us and everybody else in the business.
Let me just add the question on the effect of Donald Trump seems to be the question of the week.
I think from our perspective he as we read it we're definitely not political experts but it does seem to us that one thing Donald Trump does not like to do is lose.
It you appears if he is the nominee we would expect that we will see campaign spending like we would with any other candidate who is intent on not losing.
One other issue to keep in mind.
We have a lot of very important and very tight Senate races that are coming up as well and with the unfortunate death of justice.
Are going to be very very well-funded.
We see a lot of political throughout the whole course of the cycle.
[Operator Instructions] Next we'll hear from Jim Goss with Barrington Research.
Jim I'm looking at this page 22 slide that you mentioned about retrans and one thing you've been assuming is sort of a half and half in terms of retrans and reverse comp and I'm wondering if you think or expect or are already feeling pressures from the notion that the networks will want more that they won't be satisfied with half and half.
Kevin can weigh in on that but I'll start by saying everybody should look at page 21 of our presentation as well.
We have all of our affiliation agreements for all practical purposes out on long term basis to 2018 2019 in some cases out to 2020 or later.
So we I think over the next several years well into 2019 we're extremely well positioned and very comfortable with that approximate 50/50 split.
I'll us just add.
I know you've heard this from us before.
We used to keep 100% of our retrans revenue as recently as 2011 and our gross and our net was $20 million.
Today we're looking at roughly $100 million of net $200 million in gross.
If the percentage continues to change and the networks continue to provide us good programming and our net is still growing we're not really seeing what the problem is.
We're still he depositing more net dollars in our bank account year in and year out than we did previously.
So we will gladly take a 50% share of $200 million rather than 100% share of $20 million and I think the same is you true as we go forward as well.
The market is going off to continue to change and evolve on both the retrans purchase side and retrans sales side.
Okay.
And these agreements through 2019 and 2020 all address that split as well so anything beyond that is in future years? All of our network affiliation agreements have the programming fees stated in them.
So we know - that's how we can provide the guidance on retrans as we have in slide 22.
The fees will clearly change as we renew each network affiliation agreement just as they have since the beginning.
One other follow-up to the leverage issue.
While you are comfortable at the 5 to 5.5 times to get into the 4s would you be less aggressive would you say in considering other M&amp;A until you do pull back a little bit on the leverage issue just for those reasons? Kevin you want to take that? I think the words that we've used from time to time And right now this is a period in which frankly we're being more patient than we were last year just simply because there's not much out there.
If we don't see any particularly good opportunities over the next couple months I think our Board will evaluate our use of cash differently than they would have evidence Val waited the use of our cash a year ago.
At this point we're kind of in a wait and see period.
We've got to get probably through at least the first couple rounds of the auction before some folks start contemplating their future and we also expect the election is going to keep a lot of folks on the sidelines as well.
I don't think our Board is ready to make any decisions and right now we just don't have anything sort of in the near term for the Board to consider.
Next from Singular Research we'll hear from Robert [indiscernible].
I'm a little bit new to the story.
I believe during your comments Kevin some of that broke up at least on my end so pardon if any of this has been covered already.
First - just two questions.
First question relates to your acquisition trajectory in light of this looking to be maybe somewhat of a - shall we say a consolidation large acquisition.
The question I have is how many more targets are there out there in terms of the Schurz story and at what point would you expect to be in a position to be looking at that? And the other thing trying to think about how I would metric out your so-called organic growth during your pretty active acquirer so what metrics are best to look at for that? Thank you.
I'll take the first question.
I'll let Tim take the second.
On the first question you're right because of consolidation there's a lot fewer targets today than they were five years ago or even three years ago.
And our criteria sets a fairly high bar.
As we look out there are many fewer group owners of television stations but there are still enough we think quality assets of out there owned by typically multigenerational folks multigenerational owners with one or two or three or four stations very small number of groups and frankly if we put all the targets on a spreadsheet and totaled up the likely purchase price it's far more than we could ever afford.
So we think there's plenty of good opportunities for us to continue doing what we have been doing.
It's just not all going to happen this year.
It's a multiyear process to continue to grow the portfolio with the right kinds of stations at the right prices.
Jim did you want to take the second question? As far as metrics what I would point you to is what we call combined historical results where we're taking the acquisition - the predecessor's operating results and combining it with our own historical results to get a better apples-to-apples comparison.
So I think if you look at those metrics that we publish pretty consistently when we're acquisitive you'll be able to track our core - what would be core growth even though we're being acquisitive.
And our next question comes from Davis Hebert with Wells Fargo.
Wonder if you focus on the expense side for a minute.
Talk about you how your fixed and variable costs are looking for 2016.
Kind of a follow-up for that is now that Gray has reached a larger level of scale relative historically speaking are you seeing other cost opportunities aside from just negotiating leverage something like syndication programming costs or any other expense reduction opportunities from that perspective.
Let me take the first part of that question Davis.
Our biggest single component cost is our payroll and benefits and now with the Schurz closing we're at approximately 3500 employees.
Our stations generally are staffed pretty efficiently especially our historical stations.
I'm not saying that there isn't always room for improvement in staffing but there's not tremendous amount of opportunity there because we've already done a very good job of automation and improving workflows etcetera.
So I would say that a reasonable amount of our costs even if most people consider payroll as variable that a reasonable amount of our costs tend to be fixed.
We've done an excellent job historically in managing those.
Absent the natural increase in reverse compensation to the networks that's going to flow with the increase in the gross retrans we would expect our main core expenses to grow at relatively modest rates year to year.
We're talking low single digit and a lot of that would be impact of just normal inflation cost of living increases to the employee base.
And then if I could try and drill down a little more on the digital growth.
You said you're expecting positive trajectory this year.
Is that secular growth or is that your sales force is more equipped to sell it in packages with spot TV? Maybe just kind of-- It's a little bit of both.
We had said 2015 was a little bit of a regrouping year for us after several years of very strong growth.
What everyone needs to keep in mind when we talk about digital revenue is that that is all organic advertising whether it's digital banner or preroll or sponsorship or whatever but that's all organic advertising to our local markets.
We do not have any digital services businesses.
So as I said at the outset it's a little bit of both.
It's part secular growth there.
It's part just digging in and the sales staff is working harder to sell it in the local market.
Okay.
Maybe just a follow-up on that.
I think you guys have talked about numerous head fakes in the mobile space for local TV.
Feels like mobile's just getting more powerful in terms of ad spending.
Do you feel like that is still an opportunity for the sector overall? Yes I mean the bulk of our traffic in our local market is all mobile now and that's certainly showing up as part of the whole mix.
But yes we definitely see mobile has got a lot of promise as we go into the future.
Next we'll hear from Kyle Evans with Stephens.
Most of mine have been answered already.
But Jim could you help us think about when we should start looking at modeling for cost synergies on the Schurz side? We have always taken an approach in an acquisition that we - while we have cost synergies we work our way into that over the course of about the first year.
In our as reported numbers you're not going to see a whole lot of that in Q1.
It will start to pick up in Q2.
And then it's a little more in Q3 and a little bit more and more than that in Q4 and kind of wrap it up in early next year given that we closed in February this year.
We've always taken that approach.
We've never been a Company that's gone in on day one and created a lot of negative headlines in a he local community.
We would much rather take our time work through some things where we know we can bring efficiencies and do it in a right smart way that's not only good for the station but good for the local community as well and in some cases it's fog be we're going to be installing equipment and workflows.
Now that we're closed we can start that planning and start that ordering but things like that take can be a multi-week to a multi-month lead time to work your way into it.
Next from Singular Research we'll hear from Jim Maron [ph].
I'm the other analyst along with Robert [indiscernible] covering the Company.
Perhaps it was touched on but I just wanted to maybe hear some clarification in regards to your priority on bringing down the debt.
Is there any mention or any color as far as potential restructuring of the debt in order to lower the borrowing cost if at all possible or any other type of financing options that you guys are exploring to he reduce your cost? We have first of all pretty low cost debt to begin with.
Our bonds are at 7.5.
They are in their first call period.
Our second call period starts in October and we have said that we will be thoughtful about that especially as we get to the second call period and what opportunities may present themselves in the broader market.
Certainly right now in the bond market it would not be a good time to rush into anything.
Our senior debt prices I think actually we're very pleased with that our $425 million incremental that we did to finance the Schurz acquisition last week prices L350 with a 75 point floor.
So that's all in a pretty low cost piece of paper and our existing $556 million term loan the base term loan actually prices at currently now with Schurz closed because of a little bump-up for favored nations clauses in that agreement it's still pricing at L319 basically so it's again pretty - 75.4 floor.
So were actually quite pleased with our overall cost of debt right now and as we've said before we'll be thoughtful about the bonds as we get later into the year.
[Operator Instructions].
Next we'll hear from David Atterbury with Whetstone Capital I guess my first question I wanted to ask is can you comment on what trends you've seen over time over the last three to five years with respect to your big four affiliate subscriber counts? They have been on a historical station basis because obviously the stations we've you acquired it's harder to get ahold of the records but we went back and looked on the historical stations and over the last several years that sub count has been very consistent.
And then if I'm looking at slide 22 can you refresh my memory Jim on what subscribers you have coming up for renewals on your retransmission agreements and what rates are baked into that 2017 estimate number? At the end of this year we've got about 4.2 million subs up out of our call it 11.6 million sub base.
About 6.4 million subs coming up at the end of 2017 going into 2018 and then we just did a million at the end of last year going into this year so that million will cycle again at the end of 2018.
Our rates that we're using for 2017 are generally rates that we contracted either at the end of 2014 going into 2015 or the end of 2015 going into 2016.
So they are probably by the time we get to the end of 2017 they're certainly going to be conservative but we stuck with what we know other people are already paying us rather than trying to guess to where the market is going to move at the end of 2017.
Our next question comes from [indiscernible].
Actually the prior caller kind of asked my question but I just want to make sure I understand.
So obviously the slide 22 has the numbers have gone up since you first put this out a year ago and that's a combination of more subs from the acquisitions but also the underlying rates have gone up.
Just for example I think it's like $1.72 baked into the 2017.
That's reflecting the rates that you've signed you signed at the end of 2015 or I'm sorry the end of 2014 the end of 2015 and where those - where that kind of book of business if you will be at the end of 2017 under those existing contracts? That's correct.
We didn't say our two year forward rate under contract X is a certain amount and then said oh it's going to increase by another 10% by the time we get there.
That's exactly what we you saw at the end of - between 2015 and - end of 2014 going into 2015 and then the end of 2015 going into 2016.
We certainly saw rates move back up again.
We're only baking - we're only estimating based on our current block of business and whatever the business rates stated business rate for 2017 currently is.
And the same thing so 2016 is basically assuming whatever - there's no - whatever goes with the subs coming up at the end of 2016 you're just assuming they renew at wherever the 2015 or the 2014 signings end up at the end of 2016.
Whatever yes again we're looking at our existing block of business and similar sized and using those existing contract rates to forecast forward.
Gentlemen we have no further questions.
All right.
Well thank you everyone for joining on the call.
We certainly appreciate it and we look forward to talking to you again when we announce our first quarter results.
Thank you.
That concludes today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.