Good morning.
My name is Tierra and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Hartford Financial Services Group Inc.
First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference call over to your host Mr.
Rick Costello.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Tierra.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for The Hartford's First Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
The earnings release and financial supplement were issued yesterday and the slide presentation for today's call is available on the company's website.
Chief Executive Officer Liam McGee; and Chief Financial Officer Chris Swift will provide prepared remarks this morning and we will finish with Q&amp;A.
Also participating on today's call are Doug Elliot President of Commercial Markets; Andy Pinkes who served as President of Commercial Markets through last month; Dave Levenson President of Wealth Management; Andy Napoli President of Consumer Markets; Greg McGreevey Chief Investment Officer Liz Zlatkus Chief Risk Officer; and Alan Kreczko General Counsel.
Turning to Slide 2 of the presentation.
Please note that we will make certain statements during the call that should be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These include statements about The Hartford's future results of operations.
We caution investors that these forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results may differ materially.
Investors should consider the important risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ including those discussed in our press release issued yesterday our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2011 our 2010 annual report on Form 10-K and other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
We assume no obligation to update this presentation which speaks as of today's date.
Today's discussion of The Hartford's financial performance includes financial measures that are not derived from Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or GAAP.
Information regarding these non-GAAP and other financial measures including reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is provided in the Investor Financial Supplement for the first quarter of 2011 and in the press release we issued yesterday both of which can be found on The Hartford's website.
Now I will hand the call over to The Hartford's Chairman President and CEO Liam McGee.
Thank you Rick.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Before I get started I really want to welcome Doug Elliot to The Hartford.
Doug joined us at the beginning of April as President of Commercial Markets and as you know he was most recently with Hartford's Steam Broiler where he was President and Chief Executive Officer.
Now as you all know Doug has a strong and broad P&amp;C industry background.
He ran the commercial business at Travelers several years back and has great relationships with the agent and broker community.
He is off to a fast start and we're really excited to have him at The Hartford.
I would also like to thank Andy Pinkes and the entire Commercial Markets team for continuing to deliver solid results for the last 6 months.
The Hartford reported another strong quarter last evening building on our solid momentum in 2010.
In the first quarter net income increased 60% year-over-year to $511 million or $1.01 per diluted share.
Core earnings were $588 million or $1.16 per diluted share an 8% year-over-year increase.
We're pleased with the progress the company is making.
As our results over the past 5 quarters demonstrate we're building a track record of consistent performance from both an operational and financial perspective.
This is particularly noteworthy given the quarter's tragic events in Japan.
Our thoughts and prayers obviously remain with the Japanese people.
Our 200-plus employees in Japan and their families are safe and our team there is doing a tremendous job serving our customers.
And I thank them for their dedication.
Importantly even at the worst of the market's reaction to the crisis in Japan our hedging programs performed well and as designed.
Previously the company did not have the tools needed to dynamically manage the various market exposures in Japan on a daily basis.
We have completed the development of these tools and they were effective during the market volatility that followed the earthquake.
I'm pleased with the progress the team has made on developing a more comprehensive tail hedge for Japan.
The tail hedge will limit The Hartford's downside risk under severe capital markets conditions while preserving some of the upside should markets improve.
The tail hedge will take advantage of the company's existing macro hedge positions and the implementation costs will be reasonable.
We remain very confident that the risk in Japan is manageable.
Our Commercial P&amp;C business had a very good first quarter.
We're benefiting from The Hartford's competitive advantages in underwriting product and distribution as well as increasing U.S.
business activity.
P&amp;C Commercial written premiums grew 9% which was better than we expected and was driven by strong retention and improved renewal written pricing combined with economic exposure increases.
We also continue to see strong results from the integration of our Group Benefits and P&amp;C Commercial sales teams.
Their joint sales efforts generated more than $40 million of incremental premium in the first quarter.
Now Chris will talk in more and detail about our GBD  performance which remains challenged.
But our experience has been similar to the broader industry trends.
In Consumer Markets the team is focused on its strategy of profitably growing AARP adding new profitable affinity partners and repositioning the agency business to a more profitable target customer.
Disciplined pricing in underwriting are driving improvement in the current accident year combined ratio and we're pleased with this outcome.
But on the other hand the resulting impact to the top line frankly was larger than we expected.
Chris will walk you through the drivers and our plan to address the decline.
We're in very active discussions with several affinity  partners and plan on signing at least one additional new partner in the second quarter.
We also launched our marketing outreach to members of the American Kennel Club an affinity partner we announced last quarter.
Including AKC we expect to have the ability to market to more than 5 million new affinity members by the end of the second quarter.
Our goal is to generate about $200 million in written premium in 2013 through new affinity partnerships.
Now before I turn to Wealth Management I want to address the devastating storm activity we've seen in April.
Our claims teams are on the ground working with customers.
Based on the level of storm activity we have already seen catastrophe losses in the second quarter may exceed last year's second quarter total of about $200 million.
In Wealth Management retirement plans non-proprietary mutual funds and Life Insurance reported double-digit sales growth.
Our strategy of combining innovative product development with a focus on broadening distribution is generating good results.
In product innovation we recently added the life industry's first longevity rider which allows policyholders to begin receiving payments at age 90.
So in conjunction with our popular Life access rider we can now offer protection against all of the customers' major concerns: premature death getting sick or outliving one's assets.
The team is also working diligently towards the launch of the next offerings in our suite of variable annuity  products.
We were optimistic that we would be able to go to market as soon as this week but our launch was delayed.
The innovative nature of the new product features has led to extended conversations with regulators which are ongoing.
We are committed to the Annuity business and to developing a suite of products that offer attractive benefits for consumers with an appropriate risk return profile for The Hartford.
Since Dave Levenson took leadership of Wealth Management in July the team has been investing in the Annuity business adding top talent spending time with distribution and revitalizing the product development efforts.
And I'm excited about our pipeline of potential new products.
So we are executing on the strategy we outlined last April and are operating with a much improved investment portfolio and capital position.
In the first quarter we took an important capital management action by doubling the dividend.
And since the first of the year we've been pleased to see 3 rating agencies upgrade our outlook.
We are committed to prudent capital management.
We are evaluating potential capital management actions and are beginning to have discussions with our key constituencies.
In an environment of global financial and political uncertainty the first quarter's results are a good start to the year.
The team and I are focused on executing the strategy with the goal of delivering sustained profitable growth.
I'll now turn the call over to Chris.
Chris? Thank you Liam.
Good morning everyone.
Let's begin on Slide 4.
As Liam mentioned we feel very good about our first quarter results.
Net income was up strongly over prior year at $511 million or $1.01 per diluted share.
Core earnings were $588 million or $1.16 per diluted share.
At the end of the first quarter book value per share was $45.93; this was up 18% over prior year and 3% during the quarter.
Diluted book value per share excluding AOCI continued to decline up 2% in the first quarter to $43.09.
Core earnings return on equity excluding AOCI for the trailing 12 months was 9.1%.
Now let's move to Slide 5 to discuss 2 of our key financial metrics adjusted core earnings and the expense efficiency ratio.
Adjusted core earnings were $494 million a 9% increase over the first quarter of 2010.
This calculation excludes two first quarter benefits a DAC unlock of $61 million strong growth in U.S.
equity market and yen weakening more than offset the decline in Japan equities.
In Property &amp; Casualty net prior year reserve releases of $33 million.
Our strong first quarter results benefited from partnership returns healthy equity markets and better-than-expected top line growth in P&amp;C Commercial.
We're also seeing strong margin expansion in Consumer Markets reflecting the pricing action we have taken.
This was offset somewhat by a higher non-cat [catastrophe] weather in both consumer and commercial lines and increased loss cost in GBD.
Turning to the expense ratio we've restated the 2009 measure to reflect primarily the completion of the sale of Specialty Risk Services The Hartford's third-party claims administrator.
Due to the nature of the TPA business SRS operated with a relatively high expense ratio.
So the sale lowers The Hartford's expense ratio but without the corresponding bottom line impact.
The new restated baseline for 2009 is 18.5%.
A significant number of expense projects are underway at the company.
We are implementing over $200 million in run rate expense reductions which will contribute to achieving our goal by the end of 2012.
Now let's move to a more detailed discussion of our business results beginning with Commercial Markets on Slide 6.
P&amp;C Commercial lines performed well in the quarter with written premiums up 9%.
This was the third consecutive quarter of written premium increases.
We saw economic exposure growth in improving pricing in the marketplace.
Our standard commercial renewal price increases were 3% up from 1% in each of the quarters in 2010.
Retention was strong across standard commercial businesses.
New business levels were up modestly reflecting continued underwriting discipline.
In terms of profitability current accident year cat losses were 3 points on the combined ratio.
The primary driver was winter storm activity.
P&amp;C Commercial reported a 94.9% ex-cat current accident year combined ratio.
This reflects elevated non-cat property losses as well as underlying losses that were slightly higher than earned pricing increases.
Pricing and loss cost trends remain within our expectations.
As a result we are maintaining our full year combined ratio guidance.
In Small Commercial we grew policy count by 5% over prior year while achieving targeted rate increases.
This reflects our outstanding market position pricing model sophistication and new product introductions.
In Middle Market we had solid retentions while exposure growth was also positive.
Pricing in Middle Market turned positive in the first quarter with 2 points of rate on renewal pricing.
New business premiums were up 6% year-over-year.
We are maintaining our full year written premium growth guidance of 3% to 6%.
We are encouraged by increasing pricing and favorable exposure growth we saw in the first quarter.
To the extent that these trends are sustained we would expect to be near the top of our full year guidance range.
The Group Benefit business remained extremely competitive.
Fully insured premiums declined 2% year-over-year and first quarter sales were down 18%.
We continue to exercise the appropriate pricing discipline on both new and renewal business.
Elevated claim incidences and long-term disability again impacted the bottom line.
We are taking selected rate actions on renewals zeroing in on the accounts that need price increases.
As the economy continues to improve and our pricing actions earn in we expect the loss ratio to improve.
This will take time and the loss ratio will likely remain in the high 70s through this year.
In summary it was a strong quarter for Commercial Markets with P&amp;C Commercial lines reporting 9% premium growth and solid underwriting profitability.
The Hartford's competitive advantages in product pricing sophistication and distribution continue to drive disciplined growth.
Now let's turn to Slide 7 for Consumer Markets.
We continue to improve profitability in Consumer Markets by increasing pricing and refocusing our book on targeted customer segments.
We saw an improvement in first quarter ex-cat ex-prior year combined ratio which is evidence we're on the right track.
On the top line our pricing increases continue to impact written premiums.
Competition remains intense and with the economy in its current state there is greater price sensitivity among consumers.
In the first quarter written premiums declined 6%.
New business levels were soft and retention was down 2% year-over-year.
We are taking a number of steps to improve new business flow.
We are increasing marketing efforts in the most productive regions refining rate actions and streamlining the underwriting and sales process.
We should see new business growth in the second half of 2011.
Even with these actions we now expect written premiums to decline between 2.5% and 5.5% for the full year 2011.
Overall Consumer Markets had a mixed quarter.
We saw improvement in the ex-cat current accident year underwriting margin but our top line results were disappointing.
We are on the right track in executing our strategy.
Now let's discuss Wealth Management results on Slide 8.
Excluding the impact of the DAC unlock first quarter core earnings were up 24% over prior year.
The trends that contributed to margin expansion in 2010 continued rising equity markets healthy investment income and top line growth in our non-VA businesses.
First quarter core earnings for Global Annuity ex-DAC unlock were $169 million a 30% increase over prior year.
Assets under management were $151 billion were largely unchanged from year end as rising equity markets offset net outflows.
This quarter's 5% rise in the S&amp;P reduced the value of living and death benefit guarantees and contributed to a higher surrender activity.
Our new net flow guidance incorporates the impact of increased account values and higher lapses.
We are adding an additional $1.5 billion of outflows to our full year guidance.
In addition we are increasing our ROA guidance for Global Annuity by 4 basis points to reflect the strong investment income we saw in the first quarter.
The Life Insurance business posted another solid quarter.
Ex-DAC unlock core earnings were $55 million.
This is up 12% from prior year reflecting higher investment income which was partially offset by elevated mortality.
Individual Life sales were up 13% over prior year driven by higher sales in our independent distribution channel.
The Monarch program we introduced in 2010 continues to be a source of growth.
600 Monarch agents among the largest independent producers in the U.S.
generated about 16% of total Individual Life sales in the first quarter.
Retirement plans continues to build on strong sales momentum.
First quarter deposits were $2.9 billion up 12% over prior year.
This brings retirement plan's AUM to a record $55 billion.
Sales of $1.4 billion were up 24% over prior year.
We're seeing good growth in 401(k) sales and increasing traction in the tax-exempt and Middle Market segments.
While still modest sales through our P&amp;C agents more than doubled over prior year to $76 million.
Ex-DAC unlock core earnings were $17 million up 70% over prior year.
Key drivers include higher AUM stronger investment income and expense discipline.
We continue to build scale without adding additional operating expenses.
Non-proprietary mutual fund AUM had a record $60 billion helped by equity market appreciation and strong net flows of $1 billion.
Retail mutual fund sales were up 15% over prior year.
Core earnings of $27 million were in line with prior year.
The Hartford mutual fund posted excellent performance again with 68% of the retail funds outperforming their Morningstar peers during the first quarter.
Mutual funds sales rose steadily and we expect this momentum to continue.
As a result we are increasing our full year guidance for deposits and net flows in our non-proprietary mutual funds by about $0.5 billion.
In summary our Wealth Management business had a strong first quarter with healthy sales momentum and improving profitability.
Before we move to the next slide I want to highlight our investment performance in the first quarter which was a significant driver of the company's strong results.
Net investment income on limited partnerships and other alternative investments was $100 million pretax in the quarter which reflects an annualized rate of return of 21%.
While we are very pleased with this quarter's results we expect the remainder of the year to be closer to our long-term expectations of 8%.
Higher interest rates led to an improvement in the portfolio of new money yield which was 4.23%.
We expect a gradual improvement in fixed income portfolio yields over time provided we don't see a substantial decline in interest rate or spreads.
Impairments in addition to the mortgage loan loss reserves remained low at $58 million in the quarter.
Tighter credit spreads drove more than $400 million of improvement in our net unrealized loss position and we ended the quarter with a net loss position of $161 million.
Turning to Slides 9 and 10 let's review improvements in statutory surplus in the first quarter.
In aggregate U.S.
statutory surplus was up about $400 million.
P&amp;C generated $400 million of capital.
The sale of SRS contributed about $150 million credit related impacts were positive $100 million spread tightening and mark-to-market assets more than offset impairments and net trading losses.
Non-annuity Life businesses generated $100 million of surplus.
Net dividends to the holding company were $350 million.
This includes the net proceeds from the sale of SRS.
Holding company resources increased to $2.2 billion at the end of the quarter.
VA-related impacts were essentially surplus neutral during the quarter.
The details of the VA surplus changes are on Slide 10.
As Liam mentioned earlier we are very satisfied with the hedging programs performance following the earthquake and tsunami in Japan.
Turning to Slide 11.
As you would expect strong equity market returns drove significant improvement across all U.S.
Net Amount at Risk measures.
In Japan NAR has also declined.
Yen weakening particularly against the euro was enough to overcome a 6% decline in the Nikkei.
The reason why the impact of the Nikkei decline on surplus was so modest is that only about 20% of the separate account assets are invested in Japanese equities.
The balance of the assets are allocated roughly 40% global bonds; 20% global equities; and 15% Japanese fixed income.
To clarify this for investors we've included new disclosures on Page 68 of the first quarter 10-Q.
Before I leave Slide 11 I want to provide an update on our risk management progress in Japan.
Importantly we now have the full set of analytical tools and models necessary to implement and manage a dynamic multi-Greek hedging program for our Japan VA risk exposures.
These enable us to rebalance hedge positions daily and to model economic GAAP statutory surplus impacts under different capital market scenarios.
These capabilities are similar to the ones we used to manage the GMWB hedging program in the U.S.
with the added complexity of multi-currency inputs.
We are using these tools to implement a comprehensive tail hedge program for Japan.
The objective is to limit The Hartford's actual cash claim payments over the lifetime of the block to a manageable amount in the context of the company's capital resources under severe capital market scenarios.
At the same time the tail hedge will preserve some of the upside potential in the VA block should markets continue to improve.
This approach will also work to limit short-term statutory surplus declines and tail events to acceptable levels in support of our long-term capital management objectives.
We've consistently said that we are not managing our Japan VA exposures to eliminate point-to-point surplus volatility.
That has not changed.
We are currently holding hedge assets in our U.S.
insurance companies for the entire Japan VA exposure.
As a result although we intend to develop hedging capabilities in Japan initially you are likely to see more pronounced U.S.
statutory surplus volatility when capital markets are volatile.
Our existing macro hedge protection is consistent with the design of the tail hedge program.
Therefore we will supplement the macro hedge with the mix of capital market instruments beginning in the second quarter.
As we have discussed previously putting an incremental hedge protection will cost statutory surplus and capital impacts along with DAC impact.
The actual impacts will depend on a number of factors including timing of implementation and capital market conditions at the time we purchase protection.
In any event the impact will be modest in the context of the company's balance sheet and capital resources.
As we move forward with the implementation of the program we will update investors about these impacts and other details about the Japan VA block's overall performance.
A more comprehensive hedging solution in Japan is an important consideration in developing our capital management program.
So I'm pleased with our progress on that front.
We've also received positive news recently from 3 of the rating agencies who completed their annual reviews of The Hartford during the first quarter.
All of the reviews included upgrades of The Hartford's rating outlook to stable.
The transition to stable ratings across the board is an important step.
In addition in the first quarter the company grew statutory surplus in its Life and P&amp;C operations.
Holding company resources have also increased.
All of these are important steps towards potential capital management action which we continue to evaluate and discuss with our key constituencies.
With that I'll turn the call over to Rick.
Thank you Chris.
[Operator Instructions] Tierra you may now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions]  Your first response is from Andrew Kligerman with UBS.
First is around rate increases.
Maybe you could help out Liam or Chris on the group business.
How much rate increase are you getting? I know Chris had mentioned the loss ratio would be around 76% to 79% this year but where does it take you next year on the loss ratio? And then the same question around the Commercial Property Casualty could you give us a little color on where that 3% overall rate increase is coming? I think I heard Middle Market is getting 2%.
How much are you getting in Small Commercial? How much are you getting in large and specialty? Maybe a little color around that.
Andrew I'm going to ask Andy Pinkes with Doug to take both of those questions.
It's Andy Pinkes.
Let me start with Group Benefits.
As you noted it is a competitive environment in the benefits space right now and we are being rigorous with regard to our approach to pricing managing our portfolio's profitability in total.
As we've talked about in the past really price for us is evaluated on a case-by-case basis.
We really use our pricing and scoring models to segment our book and really look at our book across the portfolio to look at where we really need price and where can we give up price in terms of how we behave in the market.
So it's not a one price one increase across the portfolio.
So we're being very disciplined in that approach.
We're being competitive but it's no doubt competitive out there.
You saw our sales come off about 18% in the first quarter.
We are willing to walk away from newer renewal business that does not meet our expectations.
That said we're taking it one month one quarter at a time.
We're confident that we're making sound pricing decisions and we're going to continue to be thoughtful in our approach.
I think as you know as well really only a portion of the book really renews annually since our pricing actions were initiated in the middle of 2010 those rate increases are going to earn in over the contract periods which in some cases will be multiple years.
Turning to the P&amp;C...
Wait wait Andy so net-net can you give me a bottom line on overall what you're doing and whether you feel comfortable that that 76% to 79% range of loss can come down next year? In our guidance we are keeping our guidance.
We believe that as the economy improves and as price earns in we will continue to see some improvement.
And over time we'll see that ratio come down.
So you're not going to give me the rate increases then on average? Yes.
I think quite honestly it is so segmented that to give a number would not be useful.
The reality is we're taking a segment that encroach across our book.
So on the P&amp;C point what I would say to there is that we are first very strong execution by our team in that market.
Lots of focus on profitability and price in keeping with our market.
I think in terms of what we're seeing we've had a consistent track record of using again our pricing and scoring capability in the Small Commercial space to continue to appropriately take price in that market.
The Middle Market space is certainly a more challenged space and has what I can say gone positive really for the first time in some time in terms of price.
And so we're very encouraged by that.
In some of the specialty businesses there continues to be challenge and still some negative pricing there.
But that's a transactional business it's a lumpier business.
But we're continuing to compete there and feel good about that business.
Got it.
And then Chris just quickly on the expense ratio at 17.6% in the first quarter.
I just want to fine tune my number.
Where do you expect that to get to by the end of '12? Is it 100 from there or 100 bps from there down? Yes exactly Andrew.
I mean we still have the 200% overall goal and all we've done is adjusted the starting point.
So 200% remains the same.
We have 100% to go roughly.
Your next response is from the line of Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Let me ask a question and then I'll let Ed Spehar ask a question on the Life side.
I guess the question for me was on the accident year loss ratio and the consumer business in the Property Casualty side which I know you've been working on profitability there but it was quite a dramatic increase when I would have expected any improvement to be a bit more gradual than that.
Can you talk to that kind of quarter-over-quarter increase or improvement? Andy Napoli who runs our Consumer Markets will take that question.
Hi this is Andy.
Yes we feel really good about our progress here.
I think when you go from a Q4 fourth quarter to first quarter comparison we have to note upfront that there's a significant amount of seasonality.
The fourth quarter tends to be much higher than any other quarter in the year.
So probably the more relevant comparison point is from Q1 of last year to Q1 here where we observed a pretty significant improvement there of about 2.6  points.
So really the big driver there was earned pricing continue to earn its way into the book as expected and we expect that to continue.
Bodily injuries severity was less than expected offset a little bit by increasing physical damage frequency particularly in glass and towing.
One might expect gas price increases to put some degree of downward pressure on frequency but we'll see how that plays out.
Okay.
Chris this is Ed Spehar.
Just a question on statutory.
The Hartford Life statutory earnings of $100 million it looks like in the quarter.
Is that a normal level or is that a little lighter than you would anticipate? Assuming that the markets go up in line with your pricing assumptions.
Ed thanks for the question.
I would say what we put on that slide is a combination of statutory and other non-statutory income related items.
If you look at purely a blue book and see statutory net income you'll see something higher in the $400 million to $500 million range offset then by things that don't go through income on the statutory blanks.
So I wouldn't say the $100 million is an appropriate run rate for statutory net income for the Life company.
What would you say if we sort of think about that kind of dividend-able funds or cash flow from the Life company on an operating gain basis after-tax number.
What would be closer to normal in your view? Annual number or...
I would be happy to try to help you.
But I think it's also important to say that we don't really our current tentative plan is not to take any money out of the Life company  this year.
I mean we continue to build capital and surplus and we feel good about that.
We don't have that much dividend-able capacity.
I think we've disclosed in our 10-Q.
So whatever the normalized I'll call it operating income and I would put it roughly around $600 million to $800 million of I'll call it blue book  statutory income.
But just know the dividend limitations we have there.
Right.
That's an after-tax number though $600 million to $800 million right? Correct correct.
Then one other statutory or book stat and GAAP can you give us any sense of what the statutory and GAAP book value would be for the Japan VA business? We could think about that and talk to you about it.
But I don't have that number handy right now.
Your next response is from Suneet Kamath with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> I had a quick follow-up to Ed's question and then have a separate question.
So Chris what explains the difference between the 400 to 500 of "blue book" stat earnings and then the 100 number that you mentioned.
You said that it was offset by other items? Can you just quickly just walk through what some of those other items might be? It's just really the unrealized hedge impacts mark-to-market that go through the direct charge to surplus as opposed to P&amp;L.
And just to be clear I think I said $600 million to $800 million of normal Life company statutory earnings that's down from prior years primarily due to Group Benefits business that's still in Life's legal entity having lower statutory surplus generation.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Got it.
Then my other question was on the variable annuity product launch.
I think there was a comment made earlier about perhaps the approval process taking a little bit longer with the regulators.
Just wondering if you could provide any more detail in terms of what's really the issue there.
Suneet I'm going to ask Dave Levenson President of Wealth Management to handle that.
I would just say that given the distinctive and innovative nature of the new products it's taking more time than we anticipated to get through the regulatory process.
That said our annuity franchise goes much deeper than any one single product.
As I mentioned on previous calls we are working toward an all-weather rational portfolio of products in 2012.
We have other products already in the lab that we expect to launch this year.
And overall I'd say that we remain confident about our proportionate goal of $5 billion in sales in 2012.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Then just one quick follow-up.
So is it fair to assume given the regulators are taking a little bit more time with this product that the innovative product design I mean is something that does not exist today in the marketplace? I think that is a fair assumption yes.
Inc.</strong> Okay terrific.
Your next response is from the line of Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Two questions one on the commercial property side.
I wanted to see if you guys can comment at all on the reserve releases you guys had there which seemed modest maybe relative to some of the other peers.
And then any preview in terms of 2Q annual asbestos review? Andy Pinkes will take that.
Chris Andy Pinkes.
Let me start with prior year development.
So really the way I think about that is our reserve position remains strong.
I think as you know our carried reserves continue to be greater than our actuarial indications.
We have a very robust reserve process and our reserving actuaries are reviewing the P&amp;C Commercial reserves monthly and quarterly using the most current claim data and taking actions where appropriate.
So really that's the baseline I would say that we head into any particular period with.
That said there's no doubt the last couple of quarters and as you noted this quarter have had smaller releases.
I would say that the pace of it all of those prior year releases will really be determined throughout the year as a result of that reserving process as we move forward.
And yes we are in the midst of our ground-up annual asbestos review.
That's a second quarter operation.
And so we're in the middle of it and we'll report out to you at the end of the second quarter.
Okay.
And then one quick one on regulatory items.
The CEO of one of your competitors last week had comments saying Washington keeps excluding the industry from some of the heavier regulations.
So I wanted to see if you guys could just could provide some color on comments you guys may be having on the regulatory front? Well Chris this is Liam.
As it relates to Dodd-Frank I think generally the outcome so far understanding and acknowledging there's a lot more to be done and to be defined have been generally constructive for the industry.
There's more to go and I'm not sure we can make a definitive statement until we kind of get through the entire process.
Your next response is from the line of Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
I just have one question a few of mine were already asked.
But on -- you mentioned evaluating capital management initiatives.
So I wanted to see if you could either give us some idea on the timing of when you would announce something or the timing of when you would know what the various -- the timing of when you would actually know what you're going to do and share that with the market.
And then also just related to that what are the things that you are considering in terms of capital management and how would you view share buybacks versus retiring awards? Well a couple of general comments Jimmy.
Thanks for the question first.
The 11% target if you will is really was always meant to be an indication that this management team is very serious about managing a capital and using our capital as efficiently as possible.
Secondly we're very intent upon getting the relationship between our average cost of capital and our returns in the right position.
Today they're not.
And so we took the first action the dividend as you know last quarter.
As we suggested then Jimmy we will now begin or have begun to consider a variety of potential actions.
As you recall last quarter I talked about it could be for the dividend actions it could be share or warrant repurchases it could be risk mitigation and it could be a variety of other things.
All I would say at this point in time is that we are in conversations and beginning some conversation with other constituencies around a variety of things we may consider.
I'm not really prepared to give you a timing right now but I can -- rest assure as we make those decisions we will let the market know immediately.
And then maybe another one just on your margins and the personal lines of business.
It seems like you had pretty good severity frequency trends especially in the auto business.
If you could just talk about whether you see it as a secular trend or is it more related to fuel prices being high and like what you're seeing in terms of frequency severity in personal lines? Jimmy Andy Napoli will take that one.
Jimmy yes I mean for auto we expect baseline frequency will increase as the economy improves and miles driven increases.
But I think what we have going for us is a pretty significant mix shift to a more preferred mix of business will largely offset that impact.
In terms of severity we expect that to increase moderately in '11 maybe a little bit below the long-term historical average.
So you blend that together into a loss cost pic we expect loss cost for us to be somewhat flat for the year.
Your next question is from the line of Mark Finkelstein with Macquarie.
I guess if I could can I just expand on Chris your comments on the tail hedge.
I mean it sounds like you've done the analytics on the Japan VA block.
It sounds like you're at least have set a strategy.
I guess just in terms of some of the details or at least the framework for how to think about it.
I mean I guess how much volatility in Japan capital will this tail hedge allow or even U.S.
capital for the reinsured block? And can you just give us any sense at all in terms of what kind of a cost we should be thinking about and what are the implications particularly on the DAC balance of $1.6 billion? Mark it's Chris.
Happy to try to respond.
Yes I would say that we have a good framework a good strategy a good I'll call it definition of what we're trying to accomplish from a number of different points of view.
But at least which is unimportant is sort of the deductible or the amount of risk that we still want to retain versus what we're going to ship off to the market.
So what I -- we just can't share with you right now because we just don't physically know just as we build positions what's the impact on completely on statutory surplus and capital and DAC.
Obviously from baking those into the EGP streams.
I think one point of clarification I would like to point out to you all these hedging instruments will be in U.S.
legal entities not on the Japan illegal entities.
I think you and I have talked with others that we have about $1.2 billion $1.3 billion of statutory capital in Japan that's sort of unaffected by this.
So all the hedging instruments at least initially will be put into the U.S.
legal entities.
And then over time we might build out a more direct hedging program in Japan too.
But I think we'll know more as we build the positions here during the second and third quarter and we'll keep you posted on the impacts on statutory and GAAP.
Okay.
I guess just a follow-up on Consumer Markets.
I guess how should we think about a pricing strategy? I mean you're continuing to push rate the PIF count continues to decline.
It feels like maybe the market isn't kind of taking the rate increases.
Is there any shift in how you're thinking about rate in the consumer markets in terms of stabilizing PIF and when do you see that PIF count stabilizing? This is Andy.
Good question.
As the year progresses especially in auto we expect our recent price increases to moderate.
And homeowners I think there's going to be continued upward pressure on homeowners pricing.
But auto is obviously a big driver here.
As the pricing moderates throughout the year we expect new business growth to turn positive in the second half of the year and retention to start increasing moderately by the end of the year.
Your next response is from the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
A couple of quick ones.
Just following up on Jimmy's question in a slightly different way on the capital management issue Liam.
Just maybe you can frame for us if you -- if The Hartford did not between now and the end of 2012 deploy capital in a buyback of stock or warrants or other.
What's the differential as you look at that 11% ROE objective.
What would it be if you're not able to deploy at the same level that you're expecting embedded in the guidance? John thanks for the question.
Let's take a couple of steps back away.
As I said to Jimmy this team is very focused on managing and utilizing our capital as efficiently as possible.
That's what the 11% target is all about as well as lowering our average cost of capital and getting ROEs to exceed them.
If you recall the 11% target if you will is really for the tail end of 2012 to be at that rate.
So we do have some time to get there.
I'll reiterate what I said and I think Chris has said consistently as well is that it is -- it is through a combination of both the high single-digit earnings that we're targeting which includes that efficiency improvement that Chris just discussed and we're very confident we will achieve as well as we believe we will have a variety of levers to pull either individually or collectively around capital management.
So as we make those decisions and as I made clear in my remarks and we've been consistent on this we're considering all those things.
We're in conversations or beginning conversations with some constituencies around potential actions and we'll let the market know that.
Chris I'll turn it to you in terms of John's other questions about the calculation.
John I think I understand what you're trying to calculate.
I think the simple answer is it just really depends right? I think it would be unfair to put out any sort of with and without type of calculations right now because there's a lot of moving parts in our balance sheet that we just need to go through with some accounting changes that we'll have to implement.
So it's really just very imprecise to even do it with and without calculations.
I just prefer not to speculate at this time.
Okay understood.
I guess just a quick follow-up then on the activities you're contemplating with respect to the Japan tail hedging.
It sounds like we've got some incremental cost coming I think in your words Chris manageable costs.
But are those costs expected to be part of core earnings and does that then -- is that something that we need to contemplate as we think about EPS estimates relative to your guidance as we look out? What I would just characterize the incremental cost directionally and Liz Zlatkus is here too and she can give you more details of the final warrants on the program.
But I think what we're targeting is you think in terms of about 1/3 more protection that we'll build over a period of time here.
As we build it and again depending on the form the nature price levels we will incrementally include those in our EGP streams going forward.
So I would say that the programs' cost at least from our normal core earnings reflection will be reflected in EGPs over a longer period of time.
The mark-to-market and positions will still be below the line consistent with our current practice and I think John you see all the pieces and then you could put it together and make your own determination.
LLC</strong> That's great.
That's very helpful.
The next response is from the line of Darin Arita with Deutsche Bank.
I was hoping to stick with Japan and if you can give us a sense on what types of hedges that you're planning to put on to supplement the macro hedge? And then also how we should think about the accounting effect of this? Darin I think on the hedges I'm going to ask Liz just to give a little bit of details and then after you hear that then follow-up on the specific accounting implications of really what you mean because I don't think I understand fully what you mean the accounting implications.
So Liz? So first of all I'm just going to sort of reiterate how we're thinking about this hedge.
We feel that our current hedge today has worked very well.
It's minimized our losses for statutory it's allowed us to go through the market turmoil during the quarter and fare very well and it's also allowed us to benefit from improved market conditions.
Going forward as Chris said we're going to have a more comprehensive approach that's going to look at economic cash flows.
So regardless of where the risk sits we're going to be able to feel very confident that we can manage the claims level after our deductible to a manageable amount.
And yet we'll still be able to share in the upside.
As Chris said about 1/3 more coverage overall.
And it will depend on certainly from options versus futures we'll make that determination depending on levels of implied volatility.
On average I would tell you that we're very well protected on the currency side so it would be more on the equity and interest rate protection that we'd be adding.
And all in again I think it's a very very good approach because it really gives us confidence we can manage our risk to acceptable levels  and again still share in the upside.
I guess on the accounting I was thinking in terms of if we're going to still have the mark-to-market go through this show up as the way it does.
I'm wondering how that will -- what sort of volatility that might introduce given the mark-to-market of these assets versus how the liability is set up? That's a great point and that's what we've alluded to and foreshadowed in our prepared remarks is that given that the liabilities for Japan aren't mark-to-market we have the one-sided mark gains or losses on the asset side that would be flowing through the I'll call it the U.S.
books on statutory GAAP basis flowing through consolidated.
So you're right but that's just the nature of the accounting model Darin.
Okay understood.
And then I guess turning more towards the U.S.
Annuity business.
We're seeing surrenders go up quite a bit here.
I'm just wondering if you're noticing any particular trends on policyholder behavior and the types of people lapsing and how it might relate to the account value in or out of the money.
So Darin this is Dave Levenson.
So lapses did increase to 14.4% in the first quarter that is up from 12.8% in the fourth quarter and that compares to I guess a normal range of 10.5% to 11.5%.
So we have seen an uptick.
I guess I would relate the uptick to 2 specific things.
One is a general aging of the book.
Right now we've got about 57% of our policies that are outside of the CDSC period.
But more relevantly I would say that as the markets are going up more contracts moving from in the money to out of the money.
And as a result that is causing the lapses to go up.
But I guess the upside of that is as markets go up net-net that is good for the organization.
And we're also seeing about 40% of our lapses come from in-the-money contracts so we are seeing an NAR reduction.
The next response is from Thomas Gallagher with Crédit Suisse.
One quick follow-up on Japan then another one on the tax rate.
So Chris and Liz is the right way to think about this that you're willing to absorb more statutory capital volatility because you have in your estimation and probably the rating agencies' estimation more than enough risk-base capital.
So when you evaluate this you're looking at the cost  of holding on to more capital potentially versus the cost of paying up in the capital markets.
And then right now you view self-ensuring as the better option and then buying the very deep out-of-the money protection as what you're implementing here.
Is that a fair characterization or not on the Japan side? Tom it's Chris.
I would say precisely.
Again we've always said we're balancing the economics.
We're running the plays on the economic basis that will balance GAAP capital statutory implications and that's exactly the design that Liz and the team have come up with based on our framework.
Okay.
And presumably Liz this is going to be a multiyear hedge program that more closely matches the duration the of the liabilities is that in theory the way we should be thinking about this? Yes absolutely.
But that doesn't necessarily mean all the instruments will be multiyear because you can always roll them.
So we'll be looking at like I said at implied volatility levels and price points.
But how you should think about it is if you -- eventually stat will equal cash flows right? So we're looking at it comprehensively on a cash flow basis ultimate cash claims cost limiting that to an acceptable level irrespective of the risk factors.
So you could be putting on if rates move more you'll put more rate protection on or if equities you'll do that.
So it is to look at the long-term claim patterns to your point.
Tom I would also just add again with the discussions we have with Liz.
Remember the most important part of the exposure period is until annuitization also.
So that a lot of the design in the hedging instruments x interest rates which is a longer-term matter is really FX and equity in the short term prior to people's election on annuitization is the primary focus of the program also.
And has the reaction from the rating agencies been --  did they understand that you're better matching the economics? Are they willing to let you have more statutory capital volatility and not make you hold on to more capital? Or is there the understanding that you're going to have to run it at a higher RBC just because this is inherently going to create more at least short-term statutory capital volatility? Great point.
And like as Liam said we're early in those discussions and those are important dialogues that will begin to happen.
Okay.
Then last question can you just comment on what the tax rate you're using to calculate core EPS and what should we be modeling for the balance of 2011? I would just point you to -- it's a little lower this quarter just because net income is a little lower.
Nothing's really changed from an I'll call it an actual calculation side or the amount of preference items we have Tom.
So  think in terms of 22% to 24% effective tax rate going forward.
This is Rick Costello.
We don't want to run too long given that we've got another industry call beginning at the top of the hour.
So I'd ask that we take one more question and then we'll conclude.
Your final response is from Eric Berg [ph] for RBS Capital.[ph] Chris I know we've sort of said along here that the statutory capital volatility will increase as a result of your layering in more hedges prospectively.
But why is that? And the reason I ask is as follows: My understanding is that you're currently  booking reserves under  this -- for these GMIB and GMDB benefits in Japan under U.S.
statutory capital rules namely what they call C3 Phase 2 and VA CARVM.
This is something approaching but not actually a mark-to-market.
It's something like that the so-called CTE approach.
You're now going to layer in the use of additional derivatives that under statutory accounting will be mark-to-market.
So it feels like if anything you will be supplementing your existing mark-to-market of liabilities with the introduction of new hedge assets that will also be mark-to-market a move that I would think would lower statutory capital volatility not increase it.
Can you sort of set me straight on this? Because I was not able to follow the discussion as to why statutory capital volatility will increase.
Two we could go on to a lot of detail offline on this but I'd like you to think about remember it's Japan risk that is seated into the U.S.
entity.
So we have some basis risk there.
It's not all of it.
It's not all the income that's coming into the U.S.
It's really the application of AG43 and VA CARVM and all that.
There's a lot of technicalities that will create some initial I'll call it capital consumption that you'll have to assume and consume when we put in these positions and then there is just volatility in how you run your AG43 models here going forward.
Remember we have an onshore program.
We don't see this as offshore captives and we have actual surplus in our White River Re entities back all these programs.
So our U.S.
program is just subject to a little bit more volatility the way we approach it.
Okay I'll definitely circle back to you.
Thank you.
And if there are no further questions at this time it is 10:06.
This concludes The Hartford's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
Thank you so much all for your participation and we do look forward to seeing you soon.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
Ladies and gentlemen we thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning.
My name is Roshira and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Hartford Financial Group Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] And now I would like to turn the call over to Sabra Purtill.
You may begin.
Thank you Roshira.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for The Hartford's Second Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
The press release supplement and today's slide presentation are on our website as is our second quarter 10-Q which was filed last night.
Chief Executive Officer Liam McGee; and Chief Financial Officer Chris Swift will discuss our results and accomplishments.
After which we will have time for Q&amp;A.
In addition to Liam and Chris several other members of our senior management team are also here today including Doug Elliott Alan Kreczko Dave Levenson Greg Mcgreevey Andy Napoli and Liz Zlatkus.
Please note as discussed on Page 2 of the presentation that any statements made today concerning The Hartford's future results or actions should be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results may differ materially.
We assume no obligation to update these statements.
You should also consider the important risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ including those discussed in our press release our second quarter 10-Q 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K and other filings we make with the SEC.
In our presentation we will use some financial measures that are not derived from Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or GAAP.
Definitions and reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are in the investor financial supplement press release and 10-Q.
I'll now turn the phone over to Liam.
Thank you Sabra.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
The Hartford's business demonstrated solid fundamental performance in the second quarter and the results were consistent with the preliminary financials we announced in July.
But before I get into details I want to formally welcome Sabra Purtill to The Hartford as Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
As you know she joined us in June from Assured Guaranty where she was Managing Director of Investor Relations and Sabra has more than 20 years of insurance experience.
Many of you have met her and know she has a deep knowledge of the industry and a commitment to clear and effective investor communications.
We really are excited to have her as part of our team and I look forward to working with her.
Sabra welcome.
Now as we announced last night the operating businesses had solid fundamental performance.
But on a core earnings basis it was essentially a breakeven quarter for The Hartford.
Record catastrophe losses as well as asbestos and other items described in our July preannouncement affected the bottom line.
But I do want to take a moment and thank our claims teammates for their hard work and dedication in what has been a very very busy period for them and for many many of our customers.
The Hartford's customers always come first to this team and they have been recognized for the outstanding service that they provide.
The Hartford along with others in the insurance industry provides confidence and peace of mind to customers during very difficult periods in their lives.
Last evening as you know we also announced a significant capital action a $500 million share repurchase program that we expect to complete by early 2012.
We are confident that this next capital management action following others outlined on Slide 4 is prudent and appropriate.
We've strengthened the balance sheet improved the investment portfolio and made significant progress implementing the Japan hedging program.
These actions have positioned the company to return capital to shareholders an important action toward increasing return on equity and generating earnings per share growth.
At our April 2010 Investor Day we targeted an 11% ROE run rate for the company by the end of 2012.
We remain committed to increasing ROE but given the impact of the macroeconomic environment on some of our original assumptions we now expect it will take longer to reach the 11% goal.
Since Spring 2010 the economy has grown more slowly than we anticipated then and interest rates have remained at historically low levels.
Also losses in our investment portfolio were less than expected resulting in a higher level of GAAP equity.
We are on track on our other 2012 objectives.
We targeted a 200 basis point improvement in the company's efficiency ratio by the end of 2012 and our expense initiatives are on schedule as Chris will show you.
In addition we remain on track for high-single digit adjusted core earnings growth by the end of 2012 but we will likely have to navigate some economic headwinds in the coming quarters to do so.
At The Hartford we are committed over time to generating ROEs in excess of our cost of capital.
And we do know that you want more details on our balance sheet and so we have scheduled an October event to do so.
Chris will give you more specifics on this event.
We will also host an Investor Day on December 8 to provide you with a detailed update on the company's business and go-forward strategy.
Moving to segment results.
In Commercial Markets P&amp;C Commercial written premiums were up 8% another quarter of significant top line growth.
These results were achieved despite challenges in the economy and sustained competition in the middle market and financial product sectors in particular.
Small Commercial and Middle Market written premiums were both up more than 9% reflecting disciplined rate action exposure growth and strong retention levels.
In Group Benefits the pricing changes we are making are beginning to have a positive effect.
The loss ratio showed initial signs of improvement this quarter but we believe it is too early to call it a trend.
Competition in this business remains fierce yet we are being cautious and disciplined on new business and renewals with a primary focus on profitability.
As you know at the beginning of the second quarter Doug Elliott joined us to lead Commercial Markets.
Since then he has been deeply engaged in evaluating the business developing specific strategies for improving returns and driving growth.
Doug also joined us at this year's VIP Summit where we brought together about 130 principals and leaders of The Hartford's top producing P&amp;C agents and benefits brokers.
Upon joining the company about 2 years ago as you recall I was impressed by the strong long-term partnerships between The Hartford and its agents.
To sum it was another reminder for me of the special collaborative relationships that we have.
This year in addition to our traditional P&amp;C-focused content we held a number of business sessions that cover The Hartford's Life Insurance Retirement Plans and benefit offerings which were met by our P&amp;C distribution partners with a very positive response.
Because in this economy agents are looking for ways to increase revenues.
Selling more product lines to existing customers offers them a highly effective way to grow their business and many were vocal in their support of our strategy.
The proof of course will be in the production over time but we are seeing some positive signs that this distribution strategy is gaining momentum.
The Hartford's Retirement Plans and Life Insurance sales through P&amp;C agents were both up more than 30% in the second quarter over the prior year.
And we're seeing promising results from the integration of the Group Benefits and P&amp;C Commercial sales teams.
Through June their joint sales efforts have generated more than $70 million in incremental premium this year.
In Consumer Markets we continue to make progress on repositioning our agency book of business to a more profitable customer segment as well as on building out AARP and other affinity relationships.
Consumer Markets is delivering profitable results in line with our plan.
The combined ratio excluding catastrophes and prior year development was 91.6% a 1.6 point improvement over the prior year.
Consumers remain very price sensitive and the industry is highly competitive.
So in this environment the rate actions we are taking affected both retention and new business driving written premiums down 6% about what we anticipated.
We believe that we will still achieve our targeted written premiums in this segment for the year although it will require us to increase the growth rate in the second half.
As a leading indicator within AARP we're beginning to see progress in response and conversion rates with our marketing initiatives which should drive future premium growth.
In Affinity efforts are on track and the team is executing programs targeted to members and new partners.
But driving sales through new partners in this channel takes time and we view this as an investment to generate future premium and profitability.
Including Sierra Club which we signed in June we now have added the ability to market to more than 6 million new Affinity member households.
Wealth Management's focus on product innovation and multi-channel distribution is generating results.
We're excited about the second quarter launch of the new variable annuity product solutions and have been pleased with the initial reception by our distribution partners who are very interested in learning about the product's features and benefits.
But fourth quarter sales should be a good leading indicator of the potential of these product solutions and their contribution to our proportionate goal of $5 billion in annual total annuity sales.
Individual life insurance sales were up 14% over the prior year with good success in distribution channels beyond the traditional wirehouse focus.
Customers are selecting The Hartford's Life Access rider on 1/3 of new policies where it is available.
Life Access provides policyholders access to their death benefit for any purpose after they are diagnosed with a chronic illness.
At The Hartford we now have life insurance solutions to help customers protect against the financial risks associated with living longer than they thought possible getting sick along the way or premature death.
Reflecting an industry-wide preference for fixed-income mutual fund deposits were lower this quarter.
We continued building out the fund portfolio in the second quarter launching a world bond fund as well as 2 funds focused on emerging markets.
Retirement plan assets under management rose 27% over the prior year to $55.5 billion a record for the company.
Before I pass the call to Chris I want to comment briefly on recent events in Washington.
We are pleased that Congress and the President have reached a bipartisan agreement to raise the debt ceiling and reduce spending.
The legislative in process in Washington can very much be difficult to watch but the outcome is what matters.
However it is vital that the government continue to reduce the deficit and bring spending as a percentage of GDP to more normal historical levels.
And in addition The Hartford does business with more than 1 million businesses most of which are small businesses and we believe incentives to small businesses for new job creation and investment in plant and equipment along with the moderation of new and existing regulations are important to help stimulate our economy and create jobs.
We were pleased to take a next capital management step with the $500 million share repurchase program.
We are focused on improving our return on equity and reducing the cost of capital.
Over time our goal is to generate ROEs in excess of our cost of capital.
The Hartford operates today with a solid foundation that includes a stronger balance sheet an improved investment portfolio and risk profile improving efficiency and businesses that are well positioned in a challenging market.
I'll now turn the call over to Chris.
Thank you Liam.
Good morning everyone.
I'll begin on Slide 6.
Our results are consistent with what we preannounced on July 13.
Second quarter 2011 core earnings were $12 million before preferred dividends and $0.00 on a per diluted share basis.
Catastrophe losses of $447 million pretax were the highest second quarter catastrophe losses in the company's history.
These losses were roughly in line with our market share.
Catastrophe losses have been at higher than historical levels for some time and consequently we have been increasing CAT loads in our pricing models.
Our losses this quarter did not exceed our reinsurance retention.
Our CAT reinsurance program is designed to reduce our net loss to major single events such as hurricanes.
We included a slide in this program in the appendix.
This quarter we also completed our comprehensive annual asbestos review.
As previously disclosed we increased our asbestos reserves by $290 million pretax.
The vast majority of our claim liabilities are developing as we expected since last year's study.
The deterioration we experienced this quarter arose from continued litigation pressure in preferral insureds particularly from measles [ph]  claims.
We believe this is consistent with industry trends.
In addition to these 2 items we had a software write-off and a DRD tax benefit from finalizing federal returns.
Looking through all these items we view this quarter's run rate earnings as roughly on par with first quarter of 2011 and the quarterly run rate of 2010.
Slide 7 shows summary results for Commercial Markets which includes our P&amp;C Commercial and Group Benefits division.
P&amp;C Commercial posted 8% written premium growth continuing strong growth trend from the first quarter of 2011.
We are pleased with this growth as well as the results we're seeing particularly in Small Commercial.
We are taking price actions to improve profitability in middle market and specialty.
Overall P&amp;C Commercial is performing well.
The group benefit market remains competitive and we are focused on profitability.
This quarter we saw some signs of progress.
The loss ratio improved slightly to 78% largely due to disability incidence and termination rates.
While still above historic norms this is a 30 basis percent improvement from last year.
Like Liam said it is too early to call this a trend but we are pleased to see this stabilize.
The results for Consumer Markets are summarized on Slide 8.
The combined ratio x cats and prior year development improved largely due to auto.
The pricing increases we've taken over the past year are now earning in and outpacing loss cost trends.
Turning to Slide 9 Wealth Management core earnings were $333 million excluding a slightly unfavorable DAC unlock.
There was also a $52 million tax benefit associated with DRD most of which is in Global Annuity.
U.S.
annuity net flows were negative $3.6 billion in the quarter consistent with the expectations of our full year 2011 guidance.
Individual life insurance sales were up 14% over prior year period.
As you can see Retirement Plans excluding the DAC unlock and the DRD benefit and Mutual Funds core earnings improved 23% and 17% respectively.
Turning to Slide 10.
We remain on schedule to achieve a 200 basis point improvement in our efficiency ratio by year end 2012.
Our efficiency ratio is down about 90 basis points from 2009 after recalibration for the sale of SRS and Federal Trust.
The appendix gives you the recalibrated 2009 starting point.
In order to achieve our ultimate goal we are targeting $200 million of reductions.
On this Slide you can see the breakdown of targeted expense improvement categories that will get us there.
We have broad efficiency initiatives underway in many areas including finance information technology and enterprise operations.
We are reexamining processes and systems from the bottom up with an eye towards simplifying and streamlining operations in order to improve both quality and speed.
We continue to be pleased with the performance of our investment portfolio.
Net unrealized gains and losses improved again in the quarter as shown on Slide 11.
At the end of the quarter we had a net unrealized gain of $819 million an improvement of $2.4 billion over the past 12 months.
This reflects price recovery and spread tightening in CMBS CDOs and financials.
It also reflects the impact of our disciplined portfolio management process over the past 2 years which has reduced our investment portfolio risk.
This quarter we recorded our lowest level of impairments on securities since 2007.
Impairments totaled $23 million but were more than offset by a release of $26 million in our mortgage loan portfolio.
European sovereign debt issues are weighing on capital markets.
We do not have a material allocation to European credits in our general account.
Our European exposure is largely invested in high-quality corporate bonds and utilities.
To be clear we have no exposure to the governments of Greece Portugal Spain Italy or Ireland in our general account and only $20 million of exposure to a financial institution in Spain.
Turning to Slide 12.
Our book value per diluted share an important measure for evaluating our company rose to $43.11 an increase of 13% over the last 12 months.
About 1/2 of this is due to net income after dividends and the rest from improvements in net unrealized capital gains and losses.
Our book value per diluted share excluding AOCI has risen by 6% to $43.26.
Our U.S.
statutory surplus position is summarized on Slide 13.
U.S.
statutory surplus was $15.6 billion at the end of the quarter.
P&amp;C catastrophe losses and dividends through the holding company were the principal reductions to our surplus.
On the Life side earnings and the change in the DTA more than offset the impact of variable annuities.
Our RBC ratios remain strong.
At the holding company we had $2.3 billion of cash and liquid investments at the end of the quarter.
This is more than sufficient to fund the share repurchase program and our near-term commitments including the October debt maturity.
I wanted to touch briefly on the solid progress we have made in our Japan tail hedge program.
As you know our goal is to have a robust dynamic hedging program for Japan in place by the end of the year.
At the end of the quarter as we calculated we are roughly 75% complete.
We remain at that level today.
We are close to our hedge targets for yen and equity markets while we still have coverage to place on Japan interest rates.
In retrospect our decision to prioritize yen hedging was on the mark.
We added substantial protection over the past year at attractive price points relative to today's levels.
As you know our hedge is designed with a focus on economics while providing statutory protection in severe scenarios.
In fact if the yen had been 20% lower at the end of the second quarter there would be no other -- and no other changes in the capital markets the impact to statutory capital would not be significant.
When our program is fully in place we intend to manage our Japanese hedges dynamically just as we do with our U.S.
GMWB program.
We will actively rebalance positions based on potential liabilities market conditions and instrument's maturities and the like.
Several investors have asked me about the ultimate cost of this program.
The cost and the benefits of the Japan hedging are highly dependent on market scenarios.
In markets that are benign or rising we will incur a hedging cost but our risk profile should improve.
In an adverse market scenario Japan hedging will provide significant benefit to shareholders.
We are confident that under a severe stress scenario we will be able to limit our overall risk to an acceptable level and one that is well within our capital resources.
We are continuing to refine and build our Japan hedging program.
At our October event we will provide you with greater clarity and benefits on the cost of our Japan hedging program over a number of market scenarios.
Then in our third quarter results we will incorporate an estimate of the long-term cost of the program into our DAC models along with other DAC assumptions.
Hedging Japan [indiscernible]  is a prudent way to managing tail exposures.
It provides significant downside protection while maintaining some upside potential as markets improve.
We have accomplished a lot since the beginning of 2010.
We have reduced the risk in our balance sheet.
We have strengthened our capital position.
And we have stabilized our earnings power.
This quarter we are increasing our guidance in P&amp;C Commercial written premium growth and Global Annuity ROAs.
This reflects first half of the year performance and our expectations for the rest of the year.
With respect to ROE we remain focused on improving ROE with the ultimate goal of exceeding our cost of capital.
To do this we are focused on achieving high-single digit adjusted core earnings growth combined with prudent capital management.
As you know DAC accounting changes will affect DAC balances beginning January 1 2012.
This change will impact any ROE guidance we could give you today.
At our Investor Day in December when we have more certainty around this change our 2012 earnings outlook and any other potential capital management actions we will provide you with more visibility on our guide path towards ROE improvement.
As Liam mentioned we are also planning to host an Investor Day on October 6 here in Hartford to discuss our balance sheet.
At the meeting we will walk through a variety of items including our investment portfolio risk management variable annuity hedging and capital.
The October and December meetings will provide you with a much deeper clearer understanding of The Hartford our balance sheet how we run our businesses manage our risk and improve earnings growth and ROE.
We look forward to seeing you then.
Turning briefly to the share repurchase program I know some of you have liked to have seen this move sooner but we have always said we would be prudent in our capital management actions.
We expect to complete the $500 million share repurchase program by early 2012 subject to legal considerations and market conditions.
In conclusion we feel good about our accomplishments to date especially when you consider the industry and the economic environment.
Our balance sheet is strong and our investments performed well this quarter.
Our risk management is significantly enhanced from where it was 2 years ago and well positioned to manage emerging risk.
Our business fundamentals are good and we are effectively balancing top line growth with bottom line returns.
We are on track to become a more efficient organization.
The share repurchase authorization is a tangible acknowledgement that The Hartford's financial position and stability have greatly improved.
With that I'll turn the call over to Sabra.
Thank you Chris.
I just wanted for make one point of clarification with respect to the Japanese hedge program.
At the end of the quarter as we calculated we are roughly 3/4 or 75% complete.
As mentioned we are happy to announce that we will be holding a balance sheet meeting on Thursday October 6 at 10 a.m.
at our home office in Hartford.
Our presentation and Q&amp;A session will be webcast but we certainly hope you can join us in person.
We will e-mail the full details and RSVP information shortly along with a "save the date" notice for our December investor meeting.
As mentioned we will hold an Investor Day this December.
It will be in New York City on December 8 and will include presentations by Liam Chris and our Business Presidents.
We will send you full details after Labor Day.
We'll now start the Q&amp;A session.
We know there are a lot of people on the call so we'd like to request that you use this time efficiently so that everyone has a chance to ask their questions.
Any detailed financial or accounting reconciliations we'd be happy to cover after the call.
Roshira we're now ready for you to give the instructions for asking a question.
[Operator Instructions]  Your first question comes from Randy Binner with FBR Capital Markets.
I have a question on the Japan run-off and didn't that amount of risk to the NAR changed this quarter moved from about $5 billion to $5.4 billion.
And I guess the question is Chris your comments said that the yen was very well hedged.
So should we think about that change in the NAR this quarter as being mostly market-driven since the hedge is so effective against the yen? It's Chris.
That calculation really does not include any of the I'll call it balance sheet hedging we do.
So it's more of a gross net amount at risk.
So I wouldn't view it that way.
So how should we think about what drove the NAR change then from last quarter to this quarter? Generally market levels.
I mean we disclosed the yen equity markets in general so again it's the combination of all the inputs that calculate the net amount at risk.
All right.
And then just one more on the hedge.
I guess with the notional value not changing that much for the disclosure in the Q can you explain the mechanics kind of a high level of how the notional did not change even though the hedge program appears to be making progress now that it's 75% complete? Sure and Liz's here too and she can add additional color.
But I think simply I don't think you can look at the notionals and then draw any necessary conclusion on positions risk levels things that we've added during the quarter.
I mean we've rotated certain positions from futures to options and the like but I don't think that table should give you a good -- it does not give you a good picture of our risk positions.
Liz? Yes Randy.
So I would agree it's not a good indicator of the coverage increase.
I'll just give you one example.
If you extend cover on options you just dwell it out for a longer period of time.
You would have more coverage the way we think about it but the notional wouldn't change.
And it depends on how all of the money strike the options et cetera.
So it's just not a good indicator.
I would turn your attention more to the Q where you can see the sensitivities in the Q and you can see both currency and equity increased.
So from any market level that's the amount of protection that as the markets go down 1% or currency strengthened 1% you can see that the amount of coverage we have has increased.
Your next question comes from Nigel Dally with Morgan Stanley.
The first question is just on the year-end 2012 ROA target.
I understand that the 11% now looks unlikely which probably isn't really a surprise to most investors but and I know that you're planning on providing additional detail at your upcoming Investor Day.
But any color as to how much lower your expectations are now relative to what previously you're expecting would be helpful.
Why don't we start there then I have a follow up on capital.
Well Nigel let me be clear first of all.
We're saying the timing of the 11% will be pushed out not that we're not as committed to achieving it.
As I said in my remarks when we went to go back to April of 2010 first of all Chris and I and the management team really want to run the company against targets.
And we kind of have a philosophy if you don't really have a destination you don't know when you get there.
And as I noted in my remarks clearly the economy has not recovered at the pace that we expected and interest rates just have remained at levels we would not have anticipated at that point in time.
And we haven't consumed as much capital unfortunately in our investment portfolio because of the good work of our teammates there.
We are committed as Chris and I have said a couple of times this morning to increasing our ROE and over time we want to get our ROE at minimum initially to be on top of our cost of capital and then over time to exceed it.
What I can tell you Nigel is that the management team as well as the management team with the board is really managing our company not just at an aggregate level from an ROE perspective but business by business.
So each of our businesses those that are above their cost of capital now have a plan for improving it and those that are below it have very specific communicated plans that we're monitoring closely to get those businesses at and then ultimately over the cost of capital and monitor if that's not possible.
And I'd emphasize that's not just the management team.
That's in conjunction with our board as well.
Finally as Chris said I think because of the economic uncertainty and the market uncertainty number one.
Number two there's a lot of unknowables at this moment.
We're working through the DAC methodological change and the impact of the Japan hedge on DAC.
I think it's more appropriate for us to give you the glide path towards improvement in the December timeframe at our Investor Day and that'll be one of the things we'd spend a lot of time on.
Second question is just on the capital.
Chris I think you've said in the past that warrant extinguishment will be probably a higher priority than regular common stock repurchases.
Is that still the case today or should we expect more of a combination or warrant to common stock buybacks in tandem as you execute your capital management initiatives? Also the second quarter was clearly challenging and market conditions remain tough this quarter.
So as we think about the buybacks are you likely to go ahead regardless of market conditions or should we think about these repurchases as being contingent on some sort of stabilization? I think on your last point we're ready to go.
We talked about the cash at the holding company our outlooks our views.
So again I wouldn't view that we're not prepared to execute at this point in time subject again to the legal and market conditions.
I think on your question on warrants versus common share all I would say is that at today's market levels where our common stock is trading common stock looks pretty compelling to purchase.
But we'll go through our analysis that we'll do and in making conclusion on what's best and/or any combinations.
This is Liam.
I'll just add a little more color on top of what Chris said very well.
We've been pretty consistent Chris myself and the management team that we were going to be prudent and consult with all of our constituencies as we looked at potential actions that impacted capital.
We said we went through that process when it regarded repaying TARP in our capital raise certainly in doubling our dividend and of course this capital management action as well.
To your point about market conditions I would reiterate what Chris said "We're ready to go".
There are no real contingencies that we have to get through to do it but we have both internally in conjunction with our constituents including rating agencies really stress test the firm against a number of scenarios including severe stress scenarios and also take in rating agency models to do the same.
So we feel quite confident that -- and we expect to complete the share repurchase program in early 2012.
Chris you might want to share since you've personally kind of led the discussions and deliberations with the rating agencies kind of how that process went.
Sure.
We Robert Michael Arena [ph] our Treasurer we did it together over the course of July met with all the agencies.
It really was designed to give them a business update broadly through the second quarter talk about various components of the results that we just released.
We went through our views on capital.
We went through our views of our capital margins under different scenarios.
We also modeled obviously all the agencies' perspectives from their own model perspective.
Brought him this I call it six-month short-term capital management action and the results speak for themselves.
And we announced it today and communicated clearly with all our key constituents.
Your next question comes from Andrew Kligerman with UBS.
Two question topics.
I guess the first one.
So if you're pushing out the ROE target but you're mentioning that you want to at least achieve your cost of capital what I'd like to know is what is The Hartford's cost of capital and how do you measure it? And then I have a quick follow up.
Chris why don't you take that? Sure.
Obviously our cost of capital is dependent on market conditions and the market will ultimately determine that.
What we're focused on like we've said consistently is growing our earnings base and producing more stable predictable results.
And again we think that the cost of capital will come down over time.
If you look at it today we would measure sort of our aggregate weighted cost of capital maybe in the 12.5% range and our equity cost of capital at 14.5%.
That's great.
So your objectives are much higher than 11% over the long-term? Well Andrew let's be clear.
We have 2 objectives here.
One is to increase our ROE and what we said this morning is to get it to that 11% point will just take us a little longer because of the factors I described.
If not those factors clearly are different than we anticipated in April of 2010.
And secondly we want to drive our cost of capital down.
We think not the exclusive factors but the 2 factors that are most important are I think the dramatic improvement in our investment portfolio.
I do think the market will appreciate that and drive our beta and our cost of capital down.
Of course we have great conviction about the effectiveness of our Japan tail hedge and we'll give you more detail on that in October.
Now those are not the only 2 sources of why our cost of capital may be higher but I think most would agree there are probably but 2 most primary reasons.
So we want to get our ROE up we will get our ROE up but we also are managing the firm to drive our cost of capital down.
And so we think over time as Chris and I said at least a couple of times each we want to be clear with investors.
We believe it's paramount for us to run this firm over time to get our return on equity to exceed our average cost of capital.
I hope that gives a little more color to it.
It does.
Definitely it does.
And then with regard to the mutual fund business that's my other question.
So you're still targeting $2 billion to $4 billion of net flows yet in the quarter you had a negative $1.2 billion inflow.
So a can you still reach that target? And b is the reason for this decline in net flows due to the recent media attention to potentially selling that business? And what's the outlook for that? Is it going to be part of The Hartford in 6 months or 12 months? I think Dave Levenson will answer that question.
Dave Levenson.
So I guess where I'd start is just if you look at the industry flows there was a sharp increase in fixed income flows and a sharp decrease in equity flows.
Whenever that environment happens that does not play well for our fund family which you know is largely equity based.
We do expect that will turn in the second half of the year so we still remain confident about our guidance and our assumptions.
And then just with respect to the -- is it going to be part of The Hartford? You know our policy.
We don't comment on market rumors.
Okay.
I mean just strategically do you think it's a good fit for the company? I mean is it core? We love the business.
It's performed well for The Hartford over time.
We like our current suite of products and we don't comment on market rumors.
The next question comes from Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
I had a question first on your just your level of comfort with the Japan verbal annuity or Japan annuity DAC balance I think it's around $1.7 billion-ish so.
The flows are obviously negative.
They're going to remain negative to blow [ph] off shrinking.
So why should we not expect a DAC write-off in that business? And then secondly maybe talk about just capital deployment.
You have the $500 million buyback that you plan to complete by the beginning of next year should we expect capital management to be an ongoing part of your -- or capital deployment to be an ongoing part of how you operate? So beyond the first part of next year should we expect additional buybacks just from your free cash flow? I mean why don't I take the second question first and then Chris will deal with the DAC issue as it relates to the Japan VA book.
I just go back to what I said to an earlier question.
You should expect this management team to be very prudent and thoughtful and rigorous and continuous in looking at the most efficient use of our capital.
It's certainly consistent with the discussion I had just a few moments ago about improving our ROE and as well as simultaneously driving down our cost of capital.
So we've just announced the $500 million last night but we will again in conjunction with our constituents and our board the management team will look at most efficient use for our capital.
We will evaluate other potential uses investing in our businesses obviously potential future dividend action share warrant repurchases.
We look at our investment portfolio as an example.
Some of our highest risk assets is there a way to de-risk some of that economically.
And finally looking at our balance sheet are there ways to restructure some of our debt at a lower carry cost which I think would be good for shareholders good for reducing the leverage of the firm as well and the cash flow of the firm.
So we'll be disciplined and rigorous.
I think the reason we put that slide in there was to demonstrate since the last nearly 2 years I think we've been very consistent in saying we're going to be prudent we're going to be thoughtful.
We're also very cognizant of the economy and the market uncertainties but our highest priority is to increase shareholder return and capital management actions will be always considered in that context and where we deem them appropriate taken and the appropriate ones taken as we believe we've done with this action.
Chris you want to talk about the DAC? Sure.
Jimmy I think you know and that we've talked about we've amortized that balance fairly quickly right? It's through the amortization period so as policies hit their amortization window we should have DAC fully amortized.
We still actually make good margins in Japan on a core basis so I mean our profit margins are very healthy there.
We've talked about Japan contributing $200-plus million of core earnings on an annual basis to the firm.
So it's still highly profitable.
I think the last point that I alluded to in my comments is we do our third quarter assumption update.
We'll go through that completely U.S.
and Japan and as we finalize the components of our Japan tail hedge program we'll bake those long-term costs into our estimated EGP streams and take any appropriate adjustment required.
And could you also just talk about what your ongoing hedging costs are going to be once your fully done hedging the Japan book on an annual basis? It's Chris.
And then I could maybe add some color too.
I think the way we think about it is it just depends on scenarios right? It's sort of path dependent and call it rising or benign markets.
It will look like we're having I'll call it higher costs than we do in down markets.
There's also a definitional issue.
What is a cost right? I mean from a typical cost accounting perspective cost is a little different terminology in the hedging world and in the capital markets world because sometimes you don't have to expend any upfront dollars.
And as you would think of it is in a traditional cost but you have mark-to-markets that you have to reflect over a period of time.
So definitionally these are more of the things we want get into in our October meeting but all I could tell you is like I said before we will be transparent as possible.
We will bake our long-term cost of estimates into our path-dependent scenario for Japan and take any necessary adjustments to our debt balance.
Your next question comes from Jay Gelb with Barclays Capital.
And 2 questions.
First can you update us on your goal to generate $5 billion of annual new sales in the U.S.
variable annuity product that was recently rolled out? And secondly with Doug on the call if we could hear from Doug Elliott in terms of what his initial perspectives are on the P&amp;C business and what his focus will be for the future.
This is Dave.
Let me take the first question.
So with respect to the $5 billion as you know that's a total annuity number not just variable annuity.
What we did do in the June timeframe June 13 as we rolled out a series of additional product solutions that we're very excited about there were really only 14 business days that that product was live in the quarter but I will tell you that we received have received great reception from our distributors.
Our leading indicators are all up meaning wholesaler activity and broker meetings and we'll have a much better read on that as we get into the fourth quarter.
We are not stopping there though.
I think as we get into the second half of the year you will be seeing and hearing a lot more about additional things that we are taking on beyond just the variable annuity business.
So we remain confident about the proportional goal of $5 billion.
When do you think that could be achieved by on a run rate basis? So we've said 2012 and right now there's no reason to deviate from that.
This is Doug.
As you know it's been just over 100 days here for me at The Hartford and I'm very excited to join this franchise.
My early impressions continue to be very positive about the array of strong businesses we have in the commercial market.
We have excellent positions in group benefit small commercial middle and some terrific complimentary specialties around those core.
I'm excited about what I think we can do going forward.
Obviously with different ideas we're looking at execution options ways to speed up things we do here but built around a terrific group of distributors agents and brokers who I think feel strongly about our franchise.
So as I look out really just the beginning of great hope for what we can do going forward.
I think we have some excellent teammates here within The Hartford that can execute with the best in the industry that we can see each and every day.
So optimistic about where we head.
Your next question comes from Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
I wanted to see if you guys can maybe provide us with an update for EPS sensitivity the movements in the equity markets? And then also sensitivity that capital RBC for maybe every 100-point change in equity markets.
All else constant recognizing it is not linear.
It's Chris Swift.
Again I would go back to what we disclosed in the Q on the hedging sensitivities for equity rates currencies.
I think that's the best indicator.
And again our traditional guidance on EPS sensitivities for S&amp;P movements and things like that are really unchanged at this point in time.
But I mean if you got specifics you're trying to update your model maybe you and I and Sabra could just have a talk afterwards.
Okay.
That would be great.
And then one just quickly for Dave Levenson.
Just any signs of sort of early traction with the new VA product? Chris as I mentioned we did launch the new product on the 13th of June.
So after 14 business days all I can tell you is that the activity and the leading indicators are all up.
People are embracing a lot of the new options but we really won't have a very good read on that until we get to the fourth quarter.
Okay.
So no real view here through July? So as we look at July again there's been continuing additional activity and that's probably what we would clearly expect after rolling out a new product and we are seeing a lot more interest in our new solutions.
So Chris net-net the reception has been very positive.
As Dave has said a couple of times this morning appointments are way up interactions with our distribution partners are way up.
But we want to be clear we're not going to declare anything until we start putting some points on the board.
And so probably the tail end of the third quarter and into the fourth quarter as Dave has said the proof will be in the sales numbers but leading indicators are quite positive right now.
And your last question comes from John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Two if I can fit them in.
What do you estimate your risk-based capital ratio was at the Life company at the end of the quarter? It's Chris.
I would say again we don't do a precise calculation but our estimates are at 472 for the Life company.
And then just to go back to the ROE target and completely acknowledge that we'll get more information on this as we get toward the end of the year.
And I recognize that DAC accounting changes can certainly get in the way.
But if I removed the idea that there would be any DAC accounting change that would have an impact if we thought more apples-to-apples versus the 11% target by the end of 2012 where do you see that end of 2012 as you look out today versus that 11% if I gave you apples-to-apples on DAC? It's Chris.
I understand your perspective and what you're trying to do.
I would say look we think we're at a slightly below 9-ish core run rate right now that the guide path the improvement the activities that we're focused on primarily center around capital management and growing core earnings.
You saw we took our first capital management major capital management action with the share buyback.
A lot of that is going to ultimately be dependent on how we can manage our equity base and capital base going forward in 2012.
And as Liam said we have a rigorous process.
It's updated quarterly.
We want to complete our share repurchase program in early 2012.
Look at our risk positions.
Look at the economic conditions.
Look at how the businesses are performing.
Our capital needs at that point in time I think we'll have better insights into how we get to that improvement path.
But thinking in terms of we're light of 9-ish right now we want to grow and improve through 2012 which again there is expansion and improvement potential and we'll quantify it even more clearly for you in December.
And then if I could just follow up because clearly credit in the investment portfolio has performed significantly better.
I mean that's certainly true for Hartford it's probably true for the industry.
So how much of a difference is there as you think about how much more GAAP equity you have today versus what -- or you expect to have on average in 2012 versus what you might have thought was pressure from investment losses under the original plan? Because I suspect that's a pretty big driver and maybe I'm wrong.
No you're right.
And I understand what you're trying to do and again I want to be helpful.
But again we're just not in the position to quantify that here right now.
So we can talk more through it off-line if you really want try to update models.
But again I would say that we're still working our way through the credit cycle.
I'm looking at Greg Mcgreevey a little bit.
Tough with today's environment yes.
Yes.
Well so again but it is and has been a major driver and again in a positive way.
We have consumed book value that we planned.
But again we're still through the vast majority of the credit cycle.
But again let us just get through December and we'll show you our views and the path towards that improvement path going forward.
Thank you all for joining us today for The Hartford Second Quarter Conference Call.
I wanted to note I know there's a few people in the queue but we do have some time locked out on Chris' schedule for the afternoon.
So if you'll just give us a call we will be happy to follow up with your questions off-line.
Thank you all for joining us and we look forward to seeing you and talking to you again soon.
Bye.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Ashley and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Hartford Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Ms.
Sabra Purtill you may begin your conference.
Good morning and thank you all for joining us for The Hartford's Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
The press release financial supplement and slide presentation are on our web site along with our 10-Q which was filed last night.
On today's call The Hartford's Chairman President and CEO Liam McGee; and Chief Financial Officer Chris Swift will provide an overview of our results and accomplishments this quarter.
After their prepared remarks we will open the call for questions.
We know that there are many calls this morning so we will conclude our presentation at 10 a.m.
Today we are also joined by other members of our senior management team including Doug Elliot Alan Kreczko Dave Levenson Andy Napoli Bob Rupp Hugh Whelan and Graham Bird.
Please note that as discussed on Page 2 of the presentation any statements made today concerning The Hartford's future results or actions should be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results may differ materially.
We assume no obligation to update these statements.
You should also consider the important risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ including those discussed in our press release our third quarter 10-Q 2010 10-K and other filings we make with the SEC.
In our presentation we will use some financial measures that are not derived from Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or GAAP.
Definitions and reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are provided in our financial supplement press release and 10-Q.
I'll now turn the phone over to our Chairman President and CEO Liam McGee.
Thank you Sabra.
Good morning everyone.
Before we get started I want to introduce 2 new members of the leadership team who are here with us today Bob Rupp and Hugh Whelan.
We announced Bob Rupp's appointment as the company's new Chief Risk Officer last week.
As you know Bob joins The Hartford from BNY Mellon where he was Head of Enterprise-wide Market Risk.
He has 30 years of financial service experience across a broad range of disciplines including risk management investments law and treasury as well as some time spent with the SEC.
Hugh Whelan as you know is the acting Head of Hartford Investment Management and the Chief Investment Officer of The Hartford.
He has been with The Hartford since 2005 and he has been an integral part of the team and has improved and positively repositioned the investment portfolio.
Welcome to Hugh and Bob.
The macro environment in the third quarter was the most challenging since I joined The Hartford.
The economic recovery has been very weak and we experienced 9 different catastrophes during the quarter.
Capital and credit markets were volatile the S&amp;P 500 dropped 14% 10-year treasury yields were as low as 1.7% and the yen strengthened by 4.6% in the quarter.
However with these challenges the quarter was a good test for the improvements we've made throughout the organization.
Despite these events the underlying performance of the businesses was good.
The capital position remains strong and the investment portfolio held up well.
Results for the quarter were pretty much in line with what we provided in early October with a combination of factors collectively impacting results.
The third quarter was breakeven on a net income basis.
Core earnings were $33 million and included several items we preannounced including catastrophe losses of $134 million and $227 million of DAC unlock charges.
While I'm disappointed with this quarter's bottom line results I am proud of what the team has accomplished.
If we had faced similar economic and market challenges when I joined the company 2 years ago The Hartford's results would have been significantly worse.
We told you last month that we are confident that we are positioned to maintain strong capitalization even in adverse market scenarios and after the third quarter I remain confident of that today.
The Hartford has a much stronger balance sheet and investment portfolio.
Enterprise risk management is significantly enhanced and our hedging programs provide us with strong protection against the strengthening yen and lower equity markets.
I'm also pleased with the progress discipline and focus we are seeing in our businesses.
In particular we are getting meaningful rate increases in several of our business lines that we expect will drive improved profitability going forward.
In P&amp;C Commercial Markets our priority is profitability not volume.
We are ensuring we get the right price for the risks we are taking.
In February we began pushing for better pricing in the Group Benefits line.
We continued this effort in P&amp;C Commercial where we are getting better pricing to keep pace with loss trends in the interest rate environment.
We believe Commercial P&amp;C pricing will continue to increase and we will continue to drive for price increases in the fourth quarter of 2011 and into 2012.
On the top line P&amp;C Commercial written premium was up 7% in the third quarter while renewal written pricing has increased to 4% and we've seen a sequential increase in renewal rates each quarter this year.
In Group Benefits we remain diligent on pricing as well as on improving loss trends.
We continue to actively seek rate increases on accounts that are performing below our profitability targets and this discipline is driving a 4% quarterly drop in ongoing premiums and a 9% reduction in new business volume.
In Consumer Markets we continued our strategy to address profitability and reposition the business to targeted segments.
We achieved renewal-pricing increases of 4% in auto and 8% in homeowners.
Weather losses had an impact on bottom line results and we are adjusting pricing to reflect higher cat and non-cat weather losses.
New business in AARP was up 9% over prior year as we saw improved advertising response and conversion rates.
In addition we signed an agreement with the National Wildlife Federation this quarter to market to their $4 million members.
This brings our new affinity-marketing base to 10 million members.
In Wealth Management deposits were up 31% over the prior year with Life Insurance Retirement Plans and Mutual Funds all showing significant year-over-year growth.
These are good results for the business and I'm pleased with the progress.
We continue to focus on innovation product diversification and multichannel distribution to drive profitable growth in Wealth Management.
In Retirement Plans we've recently launched a new patented solution Hartford Lifetime Income which gives employers the ability to offer a defined benefit pension-like income within a traditional 401(k) program.
While only in the market for a few weeks we received an enthusiastic response from distributors as well as plan sponsors that has exceeded our expectations.
Third quarter sales for the new VA product are still modest but are gradually increasing.
We're bringing a couple of our largest distributors online in the fourth quarter and expect sales to improve in the coming quarters.
We have several annuity product introductions for the fourth quarter including improvements to Personal Retirement Manager and the company's first fixed indexed annuity.
These launches are critical to building out an all-weather suite of annuity products.
Now even with the tougher environment Mutual Funds sales were up 46%.
Mutual Funds will continue to be an important part of The Hartford.
We like this business and we plan to make a number of enhancements over the coming months.
You'll be hearing more about our plans for Mutual Funds at the Investor Day in December.
In Life Insurance sales of Life Access Rider continue to grow.
In the third quarter the take rate on the rider was about 40% up from 30% for the first half of the year.
And the Longevity Access Rider launched in June continues to gain traction.
Finally on the distribution front Woodbury Financial our independent broker/dealer received a 2011 Broker/Dealer of the Year award from Investment Advisor magazine.
Given the substantial uncertainty about economic and fiscal policy as well as prospects both here and in Europe The Hartford is prepared to face a potentially challenging environment through the balance of the year and into 2012.
We are managing the company's businesses and capital resources with discipline with the goal of improving our return on equity over time.
We are challenging each business to manage the levers that are within its control including being more efficient pushing for price increases and targeting profitable growth opportunities.
We are allocating capital to those businesses that can generate the most meaningful returns over the long term.
And as we've said before we continuously evaluate ROE and new business profitability at the line of business and product levels identifying sources of underperformance and we will take actions as necessary.
At the December Investor Day we will share with you an update on the company's strategy and we'll focus on The Hartford's businesses and goals for 2012 and beyond.
Most importantly we will demonstrate to you that we are effective stewards of capital and are allocating resources to deliver shareholder value.
We're looking forward to this meeting and I hope you'll be able to attend.
I will now turn the call over to Chris to talk about the quarter.
Chris? Thank you Liam.
Good morning everyone.
I'll begin on Slide 5.
As Liam said this was a challenging quarter.
Catastrophes were elevated for the second consecutive quarter equity markets declined 14% and interest rates hit historic lows.
Despite these challenges business fundamentals remain good.
We're pleased with the growth in certain businesses that we believe will increase future earnings power.
The investment portfolio continued to perform well.
In challenging market environment our hedging programs worked as designed.
Third quarter 2011 core earnings were $33 million before preferred dividends and $0.05 on diluted share basis.
These include $134 million of catastrophe losses and $227 million DAC unlock charge.
The DAC charge in core earnings reflected lower equity markets and updated policyholder assumptions.
In addition we detailed a few other items on Slide 5.
Excluding these items the quarter's run rate earnings were about $0.73 per share.
This assumes a budgeted cat level of $100 million pretax alternative investment returns of 8% annualized and $494 million fully diluted shares outstanding.
Looking to the fourth quarter and knowing the seasonality in our third quarter run rate we expect a more normalized run rate earnings in the range of $0.80 to $0.85 per share in the fourth quarter.
This assumes more normal cats and other seasonality factors.
Turning to Slide 6 book value per diluted share rose 11% over the last 12 months to $46.72.
Excluding AOCI our book value per diluted share rose by 7% to $44.54.
Slide 7 shows the summary of results for Commercial Markets.
Core earnings were $106 million compared with $338 million in the prior year.
P&amp;C Commercial reported core earnings of $86 million which includes $60 million of cat losses.
The underlying fundamentals of the business are improving.
P&amp;C Commercial posted 7% written premium growth continuing the strong trend we saw in the first half.
This growth was fueled by renewal price increases good retention and exposure growth.
For the first 9 months of 2011 small commercial written premium was up 10%.
Our combined ratio remains solid and we are pleased with our performance.
We continue to be encouraged by our ability to take rate and maintain strong retention that is consistent with historic levels.
Middle market pricing improved in the quarter marking our third consecutive quarter of positive rate gains but we still have work to do.
Our efforts to drive price are targeted.
We are using a state-by-state and an account-specific strategy.
The combined ratio of 99.4% ex cats and prior-year development reflects 3 points for the re-estimation of current accident year losses.
We are seeing higher frequency in our workers' compensation book consistent with the broader industry in recent NCCI data.
As a result we've increased our full year 2011 combined ratio guidance to a range of 95.5% to 96.5%.
Third quarter P&amp;C Commercial results ex cat were solid for this market.
The yield environment will be a headwind for the industry and we are already incorporating the impacts of a lower interest rate environment into our pricing.
Group Benefits reported core earnings of $20 million which reflects the 3Q loss ratio of 80.1% 3 points higher than prior year.
Life mortality returned to a more normalized level this quarter unfavorable to 2010's low levels.
Disability incidence remains persistently high but consistent with prior year.
The results for Consumer Markets are summarized on Slide 8.
Core earnings were a loss of $10 million which includes $73 million of catastrophe losses.
We are pleased with how the underlying business is trending.
Auto profitability continued to benefit from price increases that outpaced liability loss cost.
Renewal pricing continued to be strong with a 4% increase in auto and 8% in homeowners.
We remain focused on improving the profitability of the agency channel and in particular homeowners.
The pricing increases we've taken are now earning in which is offsetting some of the impact of the quarter's higher non-cat weather.
The disciplined targeted actions we took earlier this year to increase new business are paying off.
Direct marketing response rates have steadily increased throughout the year across all media channels.
In addition phone and Internet conversion rates have improved significantly over the prior year.
As a result AARP new business is up 9% and we are seeing good traction in the AARP through agents channel.
Turning to Slide 9 Wealth Management's core earnings ex-DAC unlock were 238 million 2% higher than prior year.
Given lower markets and surrenders results were in line with our expectations.
Life Insurance core earnings ex-DAC unlock were $56 million consistent with prior year.
Total premiums and fees continue to rise; however this growth was largely offset by higher mortality.
With increased policy size and retention levels we would expect to see fluctuations in mortality quarter-to-quarter but this also comes with higher fee income for us which is a positive for the business.
Individual Life strategy of providing a base product with consumer-driven riders is a winning strategy from a customer perspective while increasing profitability for The Hartford.
In Retirement Plans sales momentum in our 401(k) business is strong.
We are seeing increased excess in middle market space while maintaining our strong sales position with smaller businesses.
We now are the #1 insurance provider of 401(k) plans in the under-100 employee market.
We expect our innovative new product Hartford Lifetime Income to generate additional interest.
Retirement Plans core earnings ex-DAC unlock were $12 million a $2 million improvement compared with prior year reflecting higher average AUM.
Mutual Fund core earnings of $24 million were $4 million better than prior year.
Consistent with the overall industry fund flows were negative reflecting investor preference away from equity funds.
Building on the launch of 3 global funds last quarter we launched the floating-rate high income-fund last month.
This one is similar to our popular floating rate-fund which has about $6 billion in AUM.
Global Annuity core earnings ex-DAC unlock were was $146 million in line with expectations and unchanged from prior year.
Third quarter sales of our new VA offering were modest at about $90 million and do reflect a gradual increase in sales.
We expect sales to ramp up in the coming quarters but have reduced our full year 2011 deposit guidance to reflect slower sales to date.
On Slide 10 we provided updated key driver guidance for full year 2011.
The updates include the results for the first 9 months as well as fourth quarter projections.
We were pleased with the performance in our investment portfolio this quarter.
As you can see on Slide 11 impairments were $60 million pretax and continued the trend at the lower end of expectations.
Our net unrealized position improved to $2.4 billion pretax largely due to declining interest rates.
Pretax annualized portfolio yield was 4.3%.
Fixed income new money yields in the quarter were 3.6% reflecting a lower interest rate environment.
This quarter's investment results include strong alternative performance of 3.25% for the quarter and 13% on an annualized basis.
As we said on October 6 we are implementing strategies to increase long-term portfolio yield in this low rate environment.
We funded over $400 million of new hedge fund investments as part of our alpha strategy.
These hedge fund investments provide a return that is generally uncorrelated to other asset classes in the portfolio.
Our long-term goal is to have approximately 4% of general account investments in this asset class and we plan to fund another $100 million in the fourth quarter.
Over the long term we expect to earn a high single-digit rate of return on these assets.
In addition we are adding a modest amount of high-yield exposure in a way that balances economics income and capital.
As we told you we have minimal exposure about $700 million to GIIPS in our general account.
We continue to have minimal exposure to Italy Spain Ireland and Portugal with no sovereign exposure and only $20 million of financial services exposure.
We have no exposure to Greece.
On expenses we are making progress toward our goal of reducing run rate expenses by $200 million at the end of 2012.
To date our efforts have reduced the run rate by $130 million.
We expect the bottom line impacts to emerge over time as we are making some investments to achieve this longer-term savings.
We continue to re-examine processes in systems across the company to see where we can streamline operations rationalize the number of management layers and invest in technology to improve speed and efficiency.
Since 2010 we have reduced our workforce by more than 1 700 or about 6%.
This does not include reductions due to divestitures.
In addition we consolidated our real estate footprint by closing 13 locations.
These actions are critical in our transformation to become more operationally efficient within a business model that is in line with our peer group.
These efforts will not end in 2012.
We are committed to a culture of continuous improvement and are constantly driving efficiencies to improve the profitability of our business.
I want to address some questions I've heard many of you ask about our Life company's statutory surplus generation.
We do expect some constraints in 2012 with recovery in 2013 and beyond due to a number of factors.
First global variable annuities.
In rising markets the increase in hedging activities to manage risk reduces statutory earnings in surplus.
Second you're seeing spread compression in our fixed-rate products which is magnified by the fact that our institutional investment product business is in runoff.
Third year-to-date Individual Life sales have been strong which creates a new business surplus strength.
And finally a reminder that Group Benefits remains part of the Life Insurance entities on a statutory basis and Group Benefits earnings have decreased from prior years due to higher disability loss ratios.
Turning to Slide 12.
As you recall the VA hedging program is focused on managing the economics but we are not fully hedged for the economics.
Therefore the hedges will not entirely offset statutory reserve increases during the period.
The program will protect statutory surplus and severe market declines but will not eliminate point-to-point variability in earnings in surplus.
This quarter's results also illustrate the difference between reserve increases net of hedge gains on a statutory and on a GAAP basis.
As you may recall the GAAP variable annuity reserves are accounted for under FAS 157 or SOP 03-1.
For statutory all variable annuity reserves are accounted for using VACARVM.
In general VACARVM is a more rigorous stochastic modeling technique that results in higher required reserves.
You can see that the hedge program worked as designed in the third quarter.
A mark-to-market gain of $2 billion offset required reserve increases for both GAAP and stat.
On a GAAP basis the net VA impact was a $544 million gain.
For statutory the surplus impact was negative $690 million pretax.
From a balance sheet perspective we ended the quarter with VA reserves of $4.5 billion and $3.7 billion on a statutory and GAAP basis respectively.
We have provided our statutory roll-forward on Slide 13.
As we discussed on October 6 we expected statutory surplus to decline in the third quarter reflecting implementation of the Japan hedge program quarterly dividends from the P&amp;C companies catastrophe losses and lower market levels.
I want to comment on a few of the larger drivers.
$600 million of the decline was related to net VA impact after-tax which we just discussed.
This includes $250 million pretax for the implementation of the Japan hedge.
We also increased reserves to reflect lower interest rates for a block of market value-adjusted fixed annuities which resulted in $100 million decline.
We contributed about $200 million of holding company capital to our 2 life reinsurance captives White River Re and Champlain.
Looking to year end there may be additional capital contributions depending on market levels including an expected contribution of $100 million to Champlain which you'll recall manages redundant reserves for Life Insurance products.
On Slide 14 you can see that we ended the quarter with total capital resources of $18.2 billion.
Of that amount $14.8 billion is U.S.
[Audio Gap] In addition we have $1.3 billion of capital in Japan and $2.1 billion of holding company resources after taking into account all the capital contributions in the quarter.
We are managing our balance sheet to ensure sufficient capital and financial resources in a stress scenario.
We've learned from the past and confidence in our capital position is paramount particularly in times of stress.
The capital margin scenarios we provided on October 6 had already factored in most of the items that resulted in the quarter's surplus decline including elevated catastrophes increased reserving and capital margin requirements for the lower rate environment Japan hedge program implementation any scenario that included equity market declines more severe than the 14% we experienced in the third quarter.
Certain of these items can be recaptured like equity market movements and the impact of lower interest rates.
Others are more permanent like cat losses and hedge implementation costs.
From where we stand today there are no items that would significantly change our estimates of capital margins at the end of 2012 for the scenarios we presented.
Our balance sheet remains strong and well capitalized.
We remain committed to deploying the $500 million of capital earmarked for equity repurchases in early 2012.
In conclusion let me summarize a few of the accomplishments this quarter.
Our business fundamentals are good and we are effectively balancing top line growth with bottom line returns.
We are making good progress on our expense management initiatives and are on track to become a more efficient organization.
Our balance sheet remains strong and our hedging programs performed well throughout the quarter's market stresses.
Lastly in our Investor Day on December 8 we will provide a strategic discussion of our businesses and provide 2012 driver guidance and we look forward to seeing you there.
I will now turn the call over to Sabra to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Chris.
[Operator Instructions] Ashley can you please introduce the first question? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Jay Gelb from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> My first question is for Doug Elliot.
Doug you've seen past cycle bottoming and with the workers' compensation issue now becoming more of an issue should we expect this to be a drag for a while on Commercial Property-Casualty results? I’d say a few things.
Number one we're encouraged by third quarter rate improvement overall including the workers' comp line.
In fact our workers' comp rate improvement outstripped the numbers you see in the supplement so good improvement over the past 90 days.
As you know this is a line that in the last 15 months 18 months has seen some stress on the frequency side that clearly in the past decade had not exhibited itself.
So we are watching that carefully driving rate into our book mixing that need for rate where they profile against class and state.
And I'm optimistic that we have better days in front of us but I think it's a line we have to be careful with and one that we absolutely are acting that way day to day here at The Hartford.
Research Division</strong> And my follow-up is for Chris.
Any additional thoughts on the DAC impact on 2012 earnings how much of a drag that could be on GAAP earnings? Thank you Jay.
Actually right now I don't think it's going to be a drag.
Our best estimate is it's breakeven.
Next question comes from the line of Jay Cohen with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> One more I guess Property-Casualty line.
And I don't think it's a troubled line but you've seen some change in the reserve pattern and that's professional lines where you have been releasing reserves.
The last couple of quarters you're adding to prior-year reserves.
And I guess are you comfortable this isn't sort of a canary in a coal mine? Could this get a lot worse? What are you seeing that's giving rise to the change in reserving pattern? It is a line -- that professional liability line is one that we're watching carefully concerning relative to soft pricing still and plenty of capacity in the line.
Our reserve releases over the past couple of years have been primarily in the accident years 5 6 and 7 and what we did this quarter as we looked through our book and looked through our claims we've made some strengthening moves across 8 and 9 primarily in the sub-prime arena.
I think it's still too early to call and we're being cautious and thoughtful about that approach.
Your next question comes from the line of John Nadel with Sterne.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones if I could.
Chris I heard you make the comment that you remain committed to deploying the $500 million into the buyback in early 2012.
And maybe this is semantics but I thought your commentary recently at your balance sheet Investor Day and previously was that you expected to exhaust it by early 2012.
Could you just clarify? Thank you John.
I think the clarification if one is needed is that we want to complete the program in early 2012 and early 2012 is early second quarter most likely.
Research Division</strong> Is there any reason why you'd be prevented from beginning to buy back shares now that the quiet period for the third quarter has ended? There's no I'll call legal or regulatory constrictions now that the quiet period has ended.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if we just look at the net impact that $700 million impact on statutory capital on the Life Co.
can you give us a sense roughly how much of that net impact was driven by the equity market decline versus the decline in interest rates? Because I assume some portion maybe a large portion of the piece that was equity market driven has already recovered given October's rally.
Yes.
Hopefully that rally will continue and we could recover more.
But that is a good point.
There are opportunities to recover.
The way I look at it John is that roughly the $750 million gross decline in surplus prior to capital contributions coming in from the holding company I would say $450 million of that is VA-related and the vast majority 85-plus percent is equity-related.
But there has also been the $300-other million.
As you know the $200 million after-tax of the Japan implementation hedge charge and there was $100 million for our reserve increase for that MVA block of business that we talked about that was interest rate-related.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay great.
And then just if I can sneak one last one in with the additional capital contribution into White River can you tell us where that capital level is maybe at the end of third quarter relative to CTE 98? Because I think that's what Moody's is looking for you and others to have a captive to hold capital to? John what I would say is that from an overall Life Company perspective whether it be our main writing companies and White River Re because remember the agencies they look through everything no matter what legal entity holds all the risk.
We would say at the end of the third quarter we are still holding CT 98 reserves and capital for the entire Life group.
Your next question comes from the line of Thomas Gallagher with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Chris just wanted to come back to a few issues on stock capital and the way we should be thinking about the volatility.
If I go back to the balance sheet day I'd look at the S&amp;P 800 stress scenario a $1.1 billion impact on a net basis.
How does the performance this quarter compare to that estimate? Do you still feel pretty good about the way things trended and is that still a legitimate number do you think in lieu of what we saw this quarter? That's my first question.
Yes thank you Tom.
I would say yes.
As I said in my prepared remarks there is nothing that surprised us.
Our scenarios that we ran through that balance sheet day continue to be the ones that we think are most realistic.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
I guess the fact that there was a sizable hit to Life Insurance capital but your point being that if you strip out if you just isolate the equity market impacts and take away the hedge implementation cost that wouldn't appear to be too far off the mark.
That would be sort of the way I backed into it anyway.
Correct.
I think that's the way I answered John's question of -- I would isolate that the quarter really had $450 million-ish of VA-related impacts mostly market a little bit of interest rates and then everything else in the quarter was the items that we've talked about previously.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just one follow-up on your comment on Life Insurance statutory capital generation.
Your comment on 2012 and 2013 the fact that there's not going to be -- I just want to get a sense directionally 2012 are you thinking no Life Insurance statutory earnings? Are you thinking a couple of hundred million? And then 2013 can you just give us some -- and I'm not looking for any level of specificity but just general direction.
Are we talking about $500 million of statutory earnings by 2013? Can you provide any clarity on that? Thank you Tom.
You know I want to and I will.
I'm going to ask you to be patient until December 8.
We will talk a little bit more about the forward-look there on I'll call it statutory capital formation and the impacts on ROEs but for right now just think of '12 as just breakeven as we have it right now and growing from there in '13.
The next question comes from the line of Randy Binner with FBR.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to touch on annuity sales.
They're kind of below our expectation again and I think the $5 billion in annuity sales goal was still out there as of when we last spoke.
So I just wanted to get a sense if that's still achievable and what the components would be that would drive you towards that goal? I'm going to ask Dave Levenson to take that Randy.
So Randy thanks for the question.
I think I'd start by just saying that I think being out of the Living Benefits space for a couple of years has hurt us more than I think we'd expected.
So the rebound I think as a result has been slower than we expected.
But let me give you some points as to why I'm bullish about where sales are going to go from here.
First the product is only 4 months old.
As you know we launched the new product in June with the Living Benefits so the wholesalers are really only on their second or third meetings with brokers.
Two of our largest distributors are going to come onboard in the next couple of months.
We've made some significant personnel changes.
Six months ago we took a Senior Product Executive from Jackson and 6 weeks ago we changed our National Sales Manager and I think those impacts are already being realized which result to what we're seeing out there from a sales perspective.
Also we've made some adjustments to the product as Liam mentioned in his opening remarks.
We are actually out of the market by 75 to 100 basis points on commissions.
We have corrected for that so we are now much more in line.
We also mentioned that we will be launching FIA products later this month and we did last quarter talk about reentering structured settlements lines to build this all-weather portfolio.
So the $5 billion I can't pinpoint a number for you but I can tell you that with all these good things going on I feel a lot more confident we're going to get closer to $5 billion in our current run rate.
Randy this is Liam.
Just a couple of things I'd add to Dave's description there.
The annuity business is in the DNA of The Hartford.
We have really good distribution.
I think Dave has made some management enhancements to it that will bear fruit.
The $5 billion number as we've always said Randy was more meant to be a proportional sense of our appetite.
We were a $15 billion-plus company at the peak.
We want to be about 1/3 of that at our peak.
As Dave said I think $5 billion is a goal we believe we can achieve.
Thirdly unlike The Hartford of the past and others today we're not going to ride 1 or 2 products to that type of volume.
I think Dave's leadership and vision has been to have what he calls an all-weather portfolio and he's adding products to it.
And we want to be a company that has a balance of what's good for policyholders and what's good for The Hartford so we can be in the business on a sustained level without the kind of volatility that we and others have experienced episodically in the past.
So we're going to be patient here.
We think it needs to be an important part of our Wealth Management business and Dave and his team I think are doing all the right things.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Just 2 very quick follow-ups.
What is the distribution channel going to be for indexed annuities and are you going into any new channels or doing any channel shifts with VA? So Randy I'll talk a little bit more about that on December 8.
But one of the things that we will be doing is bringing the FIA to our core channel and I think that's going to be a big differentiator for us.
Next question comes from the line of Andrew Kligerman with UBS Securities.
Research Division</strong> Real disappointed in the results around the Commercial Consumer and Group Benefits businesses as the loss ratios kind of blew out of the guided band.
So a general question; how confident in each of those major segments are you that you'll be able to stay within the band? I know you can't give exact guidance but I'd like to get a sense of confidence in each area.
Doug and Andy will take that.
Andrew this is Doug.
I would say we're getting more confident by the day that we're nearing this inflection point relative to written rate achieving and intercepting with loss trend.
It's a line-by-line conversation but I'm much more positive about that today seeing that out front than I would have answered 60 days ago.
So that's a work in progress.
We do think we are working hard to understand our trends underneath and as we go forward we're absolutely focused on this margin compression that's been sitting amidst our lines during 2011 trying to turn that into margin improvement arena which we expect and hope we'll see in 2012.
Andrew this is Andy speaking to Consumer.
So I'd start up by saying we're very confident in our ability to achieve our guidance but there's been an obvious sharp increase in non-cat weather so I guess I'd just expect us to be at the high end of that range of guidance.
For auto we're experiencing flat to slightly negative loss cost trends and we've got some nice pricing earning in that's outpacing that loss cost trend.
For homeowners there's big non-cat weather trend that's driving up loss cost and we've been pricing that line very aggressively so I expect margin expansion to continue there.
So I guess I'll conclude with confidence in our ability to hit or achieve our guidance probably at the high end.
Andrew this is Liam.
That's a very fair question on your part.
I think what you should take from Doug and Andy is that we do think we're very close to the inflection point particularly in Commercial of pricing coming on top and overlapping loss cost trends.
And I can tell you that our team is literally working case by case customer by customer on that and that's why I was very intentional in my remarks that we see pricing increasing in P&amp;C Commercial.
And I think Andy's confidence speaks for itself in the Consumer book.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up with the -- back to John Nadel -- Chris you said you were committed to deploying capital in early '12 but there's a distinction between in early '12 and by early '12.
If you're saying in early '12 that means you're probably not going to buy back any stock in 2011.
If you're saying by 2012 then there's a good chance that you will be buying back stock in 2011.
So the question for you is is it in 2012 or is it by 2012? I guess I'm going to have to look at the dictionary going forward Andrew so thank you for the clarification point.
The intention is we will complete the program by early second quarter.
Again I think we've talked about it at the balance sheet day.
We're being prudent.
We're being a little cautious.
We're watching Europe pretty closely and we like to just get a little bit more clarity and when that happens we have the deployable capital at the holding company.
Research Division</strong> So you could get clarity tomorrow and potentially buy back this year? That very well could be yes.
The next question comes from the line of Bob Glasspiegel with Langen McAlenney.
Well Andrew and I are on the same wavelength and I had the same confusion on buyback.
And also I wanted to just push Doug just a little bit further on your comments on feeling more confident we're at the inflection point.
Given that you had your current accident year development in comp that suggests maybe you're more behind the 8 ball and where you need to be and that line that's troubling for everyone not just you.
And given that the interest rates are lower having rates catch up with loss cost growth still implies a lower ROE than you thought you'd be.
So I guess are we further behind the 8 ball than we thought with respect to those 2 items or is your level of confidence means in spite of that we're going to be reporting improving ROE before too long? I'd start up by saying I essentially agree with all of what you said right the accelerant and the pressure point relative to yield over the top in the third quarter absolutely is there exhibiting itself across all our tail lines.
So the targets did move a bit further out in the front.
What I was referring to in terms of nearing this inflection point is we're rapidly focused on trying to cross the line between margin compression and margin opportunity.
And once there then it's a matter of the movement toward our targets across these lines including workers' comp.
So we're working as hard as we can.
We're mixing our book.
We're looking at levels state by state.
I am encouraged by some of the recent filing activity across the country in workers' compensation.
But it is a work in process and in the middle market today these are books of business that I think needs significant amounts of rate and our activities are driven in that direction.
Then your own comp where you are relative to where you thought you were relative to current accident year is that you just coming onboard and cleaning up things or is there something in the pricing that loss cost -- that maybe the company missed? I think there's a very disciplined process in place.
Clearly over the course of the summer as yields have come down we all need to reset expectations and targets relative to where we need to be across that line I would say GL and some of the others as well.
So this is a complicated time.
Liam started out his remarks with a difficult quarter a difficult time in the cycle.
I've been through a few of these major cycles in the last 25 years and this is the first one I can remember at this point relative to insurance pressures where the yields are where they are so that's just another factor over the top.
But I'm pleased with the progress in the third quarter but there's much more work to be done.
The next question comes from the line of Mark Finkelstein with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> I just want to go back to I guess some of the capital dialogue.
I guess at year-end 2012 you kind of use a starting point for your sensitivities of $3.9 billion capital margin.
On a comparable basis what is that number at the end of the third quarter? Mark it's Chris.
Just a couple of things on capital margin.
I want to be helpful as possible but I really don't plan on talking about capital margin on a quarterly basis.
So as much as I understand your question the facts will speak for themselves.
I mean our capital margins declined from second quarter to third quarter given what happened with statutory surplus levels.
But as we look forward again the scenarios that we presented on balance sheet day and the market conditions that we just experienced there wasn't anything out of the normal.
There wasn't anything that wasn't contemplated in those scenarios particularly the downside scenario.
And as you know we ran those at the end of August and things have recovered since then.
So I don't necessarily want to just get into a discussion on capital margin every quarter because that's how -- we're really running the business from what is sufficient and required capital at the Life Company and the P&amp;C levels our view of what's deployable at any point in time.
So it's a language that I think I'm trying real hard to not confuse people going forward and that's just the language that might confuse people.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well let me try to ask you a couple of questions and maybe just clarify 1 or 2 things.
So is it fair to say then that whatever that capital margin is today -- I think you said that statutory capital generation would be essentially flat in 2012.
Is that a true statement from this point forward that within the Life Company capital generation should be essentially flat and aside from maybe the $100 million that you might push down from the holding company in the fourth quarter there's no other plans to -- based on a steady-state market performance in line with your EGP assumptions that it's flattish no additional contribution above the $100 million? Again you had a lot there so let me just try to pick at a couple of points from surplus generation.
I think we've always talked through that the P&amp;C company remains our statutory surplus generation engine.
We take about $800 million out annually.
We continue to plan for that in '12 and beyond.
What we're talking about then specifically in the Life Company we do see it sort of breakeven on a '12 basis improving in '13 and beyond being able to generate and get access the capital out of the Life Company at that point in time.
Obviously that depends on ultimate market levels but our best view right now given everything we know about where we see Group Benefits disability incidence continue to be elevated.
We see persistently low rate environment in '12 and we do see some choppiness in the equity markets but generally stable.
So yes in that state for '12 I think we're breakeven and we don't see the need to put any additional capital into the Life Company.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one follow-up.
I mean you talk about '13 and I know you don't want to get too far ahead of ourselves but you talk about '13 as being better.
And I guess I'm trying to understand exactly what is it that's in -- that's causing the better statutory capital generation.
Is there a difference in how the variable annuity hedges work that maybe has more of a dramatic impact on '12 on the downside whereas that eases in '13? Or is it more other factors like Group Benefits improving or what have you? Yes it's a combination of everything so it's just not one right? So higher -- market levels will increase.
Fee income hopefully a little bit of a reversion of the 10-year -- back to a normal or higher-rate Group Benefits.
We see unemployment.
Obviously it'll be linked to employment but we do see some improvement in '13 and beyond.
But those are a lot of things Mark that -- let's really get into a good discussion on December 8 and we'll tell you what we see from a capital formation side and the impacts on ROEs going forward.
And your next question comes from Eric Berg with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Chris I'm hoping to understand the following with respect to the Life capital.
Because your hedging programs have been over the years more than ever now increasingly devoted towards the protection of statutory surplus or the avoidance of statutory surplus volatility and understanding the accounting differences that you mentioned why did you nonetheless have despite more hedges and more effective hedges than ever the effect that you did from VA on the stat capital? Thank you Eric.
I think between myself and Graham here we'll try to explain that the best way we can.
I think it’s simple at least my mind in that we are hedging for economics first and foremost.
Some of the hedging programs maybe in the past were more geared towards GAAP results and not necessarily economics.
We are not 100% hedged for the economics.
I think we've been pretty consistent in saying that we're not -- we haven't gone market-neutral over this period of time so we still have risk on.
I would characterize sort of from a risk-on perspective that we have approximately 65% effective risk coverage for the entire portfolio but that's just our estimates that we see.
So again the variability in markets and not being 100% hedged in the economics and with VACARVM we consider that to be more fair value-light.
There is going to be a little point-to-point breakage in statutory earnings and statutory surplus will happen.
And I think the key point though on all this as you put it back together Eric is the way we're running the firm at the 800 stress scenario 800 S&amp;P stress scenario and the outcomes that we showed you in October ought to give you greater confidence that the programs that we designed the 3 different programs we're managing work collectively together to protect statutory surplus in that severe market decline.
LLC Research Division</strong> The other question I had related to Group Insurance and I'll make it quick because I know we're at the top of the hour.
If you have been purposely steering clear of underperforming business basically not doing business with customers whom you feel you cannot price adequately I would think that you would see an improving loss ratio but we saw actually an uptick.
How do I reconcile the uptick in your loss ratio with your statement that you have been sort of editing the customer lineup to include increasingly profitable customers? Eric just a few points.
This is Doug Elliot.
Number one when you look quarter-to-quarter 3-to-3 we had a very favorable mortality quarter in the third quarter of '10 which under today's circumstances was much more normalized level in third quarter '11.
So it looks like there's some unfavorable change q-to-q.
Second piece is although we're driving rate into our book the rate we're driving is a written rate change.
And so there's still some slight margin compression [indiscernible] '11 that will reverse itself as we get out in front of these trends.
So there's a lot happening underneath.
We are feeling better about directionally where we're headed now.
We are absolutely committed to this marketplace no question about it.
But at this point our book needs rate.
We need the discipline that we're exhibiting which is why you see both our top line and our new business levels at levels that are down slightly from a year ago.
We think we're doing the right thing.
Thank you.
And thank you all for joining us today.
As always we appreciate your interest and support of The Hartford.
And we also look forward to seeing you all in New York on December 8 at the Waldorf-Astoria for our 2011 Investor Day.
For additional information about that meeting please feel free to contact me.
Thanks and have a good day.
That concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Keesha and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Hartford Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Miss Purtill you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome everyone to the Hartford's Fourth Quarter 2011 Financial Earnings Conference Call.
The press release financial supplement and slide presentation for today's call are posted in the investor information section of our website.
Liam McGee The Hartford's Chairman President and CEO has some opening comments after which Chris Swift our CFO will provide a financial overview.
We will then open the call for questions.
Other members of our senior management team are also present for our call including Doug Elliot Alan Kreczko Dave Levenson Andy Napoli Bob Rupp and Hugh Whelan.
Please note that as discussed on Page 2 of the presentation any statements made today concerning The Hartford's future results or actions should be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results may differ materially.
We assume no obligation to update these statements.
You should also consider the important risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ which are listed in our press release our third quarter 10-Q 2010 10-K and other filings we make with the SEC.
In our presentation we use some financial measures that are not derived from Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or GAAP.
Definitions and reconciliations of these measures to the comparable GAAP measures are provided in our financial filings.
I'll now turn the call over to Liam.
Thank you Sabra.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
Last evening we announced fourth quarter results that were in line with what we discussed in December with book value per diluted share up 17% over the last year.
Results were improved from the third quarter but 2011 was a challenging year with the weak macroeconomic environment and unusually bad weather.
We're encouraged by some of the recent economic developments.
Domestic business activity employment data and consumption trends all suggest a return to moderate GDP growth.
And the European Central Bank's additional support measures have had a positive impact in the marketplace.
But we remain cautious about the operating environment for 2012.
Many of the factors -- low interest rates and market volatility -- are likely to continue to have some impact in 2012.
So given this environment as we said in December we are aggressively managing the levers within our control to increase profitability and generate shareholder value.
Across the organization as you'll hear we are prioritizing profit over sales volume driving greater expense efficiencies and growing where we are generating appropriate return.
In Commercial Markets we achieved accelerated rate increase across most P&amp;C Commercial lines.
As we expected pricing crossed the inflection point and exceeded loss costs for most of our lines in the fourth quarter.
As these written pricing changes earn in over 2012 we expect to see margin expansion throughout the P&amp;C Commercial portfolio particularly in our Middle Market book.
Doug and his team have accomplished a great deal since his arrival.
They're making material improvements across their business like building our property capabilities to move us to a more diversified P&amp;C Commercial book.
We now have dedicated property specialists in each of our Middle Market regions.
And in addition we've hired several senior underwriters to strengthen our core property team and have significantly enhanced our property risk tools.
This focused effort has already turned several strong prospects into Hartford customers.
We've also realigned the sales force against customer segments for both Commercial and Consumer Markets.
This will increase our responsiveness to customers brokers and agents while heightening accountability for results.
In Consumer Markets Andy and his team have focused the book on a more targeted preferred customer segment.
This strategy is paying off with notable margin improvement in the fourth quarter.
The AARP relationship continues to be a competitive advantage for us.
Along with strong new business growth in the AARP Direct business we are seeing good momentum with the AARP products sold through the agency channel.
About 80% of new business is hitting our targeted mature preferred demographic.
For Wealth Management as you know we separated several of the division's businesses into a Runoff segment in December.
The financials are broken out for the first time this quarter so you can better evaluate progress on our ongoing businesses as well as those in Runoff.
Earlier this week we appointed a new separate dedicated leadership team for the group with Dave Bedard the former CFO for Wealth Management heading the team.
Dave is a 26-year finance veteran with expert knowledge of these and other complex financial products.
Dave will be joined by Aidan Kidney who was the CEO and President of our Japan business; and Peter Sannizzaro who was most recently CFO of the Global Annuity business.
I'm pleased that Dave Aidan and Peter are taking on these important new roles.
This team is charged with more efficiently managing these blocks of business reducing their size risk volatility and capital consumption and we will run this business as its own segment with segregated financials.
In the ongoing Wealth Management businesses Dave Levenson and his team are focused on increasing returns and managing risk in this low-rate environment.
As an example we've raised rates on Life Insurance several times in the last 18 months.
We also believe that our targeted product and distribution initiatives are ensuring that we successfully compete in the marketplace and achieve adequate returns.
For example we recently announced an agreement where Wellington Management will serve as the sole subadvisor pending the mutual fund board approval for The Hartford's fixed income and equity mutual funds.
Our largest distribution partners are excited about this relationship as it positions The Hartford as a more significant player in the fixed income space and the mutual fund industry overall.
In Life Insurance we have significantly expanded our distribution efforts opening up new sales channels.
We're maintaining our leadership in wirehouses and banks but the independent channel now makes up about 48% of our total sales.
As you know we are also focused on driving greater efficiency at The Hartford and are making good progress toward our aggregate $450 million target by streamlining operations rationalizing management layers and leveraging technology.
This is a 3-year effort.
We reduced run rate expenses by $150 million in 2011 and we'll continue to deliver on this objective in '12 and '13.
Fourth quarter results also demonstrated the effectiveness of our risk management capabilities.
We discussed our Japan hedging program in detail back in October and the year-end surplus performed in line with what we told you in December.
As a result of continued confidence in our capital position in December we began repurchasing shares.
We have bought back just under $100 million of shares to date and expect to be active in the market again shortly.
We intend to complete the full $500 million share buyback by early second quarter 2012.
With the company stabilized and strengthened our entire team is working to increase shareholder value.
We do not believe the current stock price reflects the true value of the company.
And so as I said in December at our investor presentation we are evaluating our strategy and our business portfolio for opportunities to deliver greater value for shareholders.
We will be objective and pragmatic about the best ways to achieve this goal.
I'll now turn the call over to Chris.
Thank you Liam.
Good morning everyone.
I'll begin on Slide 5.
As Liam mentioned fourth quarter results were in line with the outlook we provided in December.
We saw areas of good performance throughout the ongoing businesses that provide positive momentum for 2012.
Fourth quarter core earnings were $339 million including a $47 million DAC unlock benefit.
On Slide 5 you'll see several items that adversely impacted core earnings this quarter.
These items totaled $69 million including several items that I estimated at our Investor Day.
The principal difference was that the original estimate was for catastrophe losses which totaled $14 million pretax.
During the quarter we had $39 million of new cat losses that were offset by $25 million of favorable development on second and third quarter cats.
This compares to our fourth quarter estimate of about $50 million.
In addition we had favorable DAC unlock of $47 million.
At Investor Day we estimated fourth quarter core earnings would be between $0.80 and $0.85 per diluted share.
Adjusted for the items that we just discussed actual results were $0.83.
Returns on alternative investments which are volatile were essentially 0 in the quarter versus $67 million pretax in the third quarter.
Fund valuations were negatively impacted by third quarter equity market performance.
Given the typical one quarter lag we'd expect alternative returns to rebound in the first quarter of 2012.
On Slide 6 we have broken out fourth quarter core earnings into our ongoing and Runoff divisions.
These numbers exclude the Corporate division which reflects holding company interest income and expenses.
Going forward we'll provide you with this breakout on a quarterly basis to clearly show the earnings performance of our ongoing businesses.
On Slide 7 book value per diluted share rose to $47.25 an increase of 17% over the last 12 months.
Excluding AOCI book value per diluted share rose by 6% to $44.86.
These amounts do not reflect the implementation of the new DAC accounting standard which is effective January 1 of this year.
After adoption all-in book value will decline about $1.5 billion or $3.09 per share.
We will publish restated 2011 segment results that reflect the impact of the new accounting standard in March.
As Liam mentioned we began our share repurchase program in December.
Through early 2012 we have completed $94 million of the $500 million authorization.
We will be active in the market very soon and intend to complete the authorization by early second quarter of 2012.
Let's turn to our business results by segment.
Slide 8 shows the summary results for Commercial Markets.
Core earnings were $40 million compared with $231 million in the prior year.
This quarter results reflect adverse reserve development in P&amp;C Commercial as well as challenges in Group Benefits.
P&amp;C Commercial reported core earnings of $25 million reflecting the $109 million pretax of net prior year development and $87 million pretax of current year development.
These increases which we discussed in early December reflect higher claim frequency on the 2010 accident year in our Worker's Compensation book and the roll-forward impact on the 2011 accident year.
The increase in frequency is an industry-wide trend.
The current accident year reserve strengthening was 5.6 points on the fourth quarter combined ratio of 101.5 x cats and x prior year.
Early indications of claim activity since this adjustment show our estimates for 2010 and 2011 are holding but it's still early for these accident years.
As Liam mentioned we saw accelerating rate increases across all lines in the fourth quarter.
Overall renewal pricing increased 5% with stronger results in our Middle Market business where we achieved a 10% increase on workers' comp renewals.
This grew from 7.5% in October to over 11% in December.
We did see a decline in retention but we are willing to shed some renewal business to improve margins.
Shifting to Group Benefits.
Core earnings of $15 million were below our expectations.
The loss ratio of 80.5 reflected elevated disability incidents.
Our management actions have been focused on improving pricing to offset loss ratio pressure.
We continue our highly selective pricing approach targeting specific rate actions on a case-by-case basis.
While we are making progress in putting more rate into the book the market remains competitive for well-performing accounts.
Consumer Markets core earnings of $83 million are summarized on Slide 9.
The combined ratio x cats x prior year was 93.0 3.8 points better than prior year.
This largely reflects 2011 price increases earning into our book of business particularly in auto.
New business written premium rebounded strongly in the second half of 2011.
It's now back to acceptable levels after a decline in 2010 and the first half of 2011.
These improvements are a direct result of targeted new business initiatives and the expansion of the AARP Agency platform.
While new business and retention have increased significantly year-over-year we have not yet reached the pivot point where new business outweighs non-renewals.
Our retention level in auto has improved by 2 points to 83% still a few points below our target.
Improving retention remains a key goal for this segment.
Turning to Slide 10.
Wealth Management core earnings x DAC unlock were $155 million 11% lower than prior year.
This decrease was largely due to 11% decline in assets under management primarily from net outflows in Individual Annuities.
As a reminder results for International Annuity Institutional Annuity and Private Placement Life Insurance are included in the Runoff division not Wealth Management.
Individual core earnings -- Individual Annuity core earnings x the DAC unlock were $86 million down 10% from prior year.
Sales improved in the quarter marking the first sequential sales increase since 2008.
We also have began rolling out our new fixed indexed annuity.
As we said in December we are optimistic about growing the annuity business but our timeframe is not unlimited.
In terms of risk return trade-off we like our balanced product position.
Our VA product is priced for competitive returns and the product design prudently balances our risk management appetite with customer needs.
This innovative design is working from a risk management perspective and offers features that appeal to consumers.
Individual Life core earnings x DAC unlock were $40 million $4 million lower than prior year reflecting modestly elevated mortality in the quarter.
Fourth quarter Individual Life sales were strong.
It's important to note that we did not win this business by being the low-cost provider.
Our pricing is responsible and we can achieve adequate returns on the business we're putting on the books.
With that said the current interest rate environment is causing pricing pressure.
In order to stay ahead of this we have made periodic pricing adjustments including the increase we made earlier this week.
The catalyst behind the increase in fourth quarter Life Insurance sales were our innovative product riders and a focus on expanded distribution.
Sales grew in every distribution channel including a 58% increase in sales through P&amp;C agents.
Retirement Plans core earnings x DAC unlock were $9 million $2 million lower than prior year reflecting spread compression on the general account products.
Assets under management were flat and deposits were down 2% primarily reflecting weakness in the tax-exempt market.
We are pleased with the progress we're making to grow the 401(k) business.
Sales were up modestly in the quarter and our efforts to expand distribution are beginning to pay off.
Sales in the $5 million to $25 million Middle Market space were up 29% and sales in the P&amp;C channel grew 33%.
Mutual Fund core earnings at $20 million were $4 million lower than last year reflecting a 15% decline in retail assets under management.
This quarter was challenging for the mutual fund industry in particular for equity funds.
Right now about 2/3 of our mutual fund AUM is in equity funds.
As Liam mentioned our expanded partnership with Wellington strengthens our product offering by providing competitive products for various economic environments.
As a result over time we expect our concentration in equity funds to be reduced and to have a more balanced fund family.
The results for our Runoff division are on Slide 11.
Core earnings x DAC unlock were $84 million.
We have provided additional details on the Runoff division in the IFS.
As Liam mentioned we recently named a new management team for the Life portion of the division.
We look forward to updating you on the progress they are making to more efficiently manage these blocks of business in the quarters ahead.
Slide 12 has the results of the hedging program.
The program continues to work as designed.
As you would expect in a rising equity market we generate realized losses but these losses are offset by reductions in required reserves.
On a GAAP basis VA generated a net loss of $430 million.
On a statutory basis VA generated a gain of $107 million as the decline in the VA carbon liability was greater than the change in value of the hedges.
The difference in results on a GAAP versus statutory basis reflects the inherent differences in the accounting for the liabilities.
The investment portfolio performed well this quarter.
As you can see on Slide 13 impairments and changes to the mortgage loan loss reserve were $35 million.
Our net unrealized gain position improved to $2.8 billion pretax largely due to declining interest rates.
Our portfolio yield was 4.1% excluding alternatives down 10 basis points from the fourth quarter of 2010.
Given the Fed's recent announcement that it plans to keep short-term interest rates at historic lows through 2014 we updated our sensitivity analysis of lower rates on our investment portfolio on Slide 14.
If interest rates stay flat through 2014 as opposed to following the forward curve the impact to our outlook for after-tax core earnings is negligible in 2012 given the low level of rates.
The impact on the current portfolio rises to $30 million to $40 million in 2013 and up to $100 million in 2014 under this scenario.
Importantly these impacts do not reflect any changes we would make in our investment strategy to offset extended period of low interest rates.
On Slide 15 is our statutory surplus roll forward.
Surplus levels at the end of the quarter were essentially unchanged at both the P&amp;C and Life companies.
VA-related impacts to surplus were a positive $300 million.
Increased reserves related to cash flow testing resulted in a negative non-VA statutory earnings for the Life company of $100 million.
During the quarter we contributed $100 million to Champlain Life Reinsurance our Life Insurance captive to reflect the impact of lower interest rates on Life Insurance-related reserves.
This contribution was primarily funded from Life company resources.
On Slide 16 you can see that we ended the year with a strong balance sheet.
We have over $17.7 billion of resources in the U.S.
insurance operations and Japan and at the holding company.
We ended the year with $1.6 billion of holding company resources down $500 million from September 30.
$400 million of this decline relates to the October debt repayment.
In addition we completed $51 million of share repurchases before the end of the year.
For the first quarter of 2012 we expect results to be in the range of $0.85 to $0.90 per diluted share.
The improvement reflects a rebound in alternative investment returns as well as seasonality and catastrophe budgets and assumed weather-related losses.
The budget for first quarter catastrophes is about $70 million pretax.
For the full year 2012 as we discussed in December we see core earnings of $3.30 to $3.60 per diluted share x DAC unlock and prior-year development.
Before I wrap up we have received a number of calls from investors recently looking for our perspectives on the idea of separating the P&amp;C and Life companies.
The company has reviewed this idea in the past but this management team recently took a fresh look with assistance from advisers.
We wanted to share with you some of the meaningful challenges to creating shareholder value via a split that may not be fully understood.
As you can see on Slide 17 these challenges fall into 3 categories: the interplay of ratings and debt allocation the need for regulatory approval and other costs.
Put briefly due to the Life company's current limited capacity to generate statutory earnings and dividends at least 2/3 of our current holding company debt would need to be allocated to the P&amp;C group.
As a consequence we would need to take potentially dilutive actions at the P&amp;C company to de-lever its balance sheet.
As a condition of approval our regulators might require capital contributions or keep-well agreements between the standalone companies.
In addition we would have to deal with other challenges to creating shareholder value including those listed on the slide.
So you can see that there are significant challenges to creating shareholder value from a separation of the companies.
In closing although we have accomplished much over the past 2 years we know more is required in order to create ROE expansion and deliver more consistent operating performance.
As we've said we are evaluating our strategy and business portfolio for opportunities to deliver greater value for shareholders.
We will be objective and pragmatic about the best way to achieve these goals.
As we start 2012 we are confident that our portfolio review balance sheet strength business momentum and efficiency plans will position us well to achieve these goals we have set for the organization.
At this point I'd like to turn the call over to Sabra to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Chris.
[Operator Instructions] Keesha could you please poll the call for questions? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jay Gelb with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I had 2 questions for you.
Thanks for the update on the -- what you view as the challenges to separate the Life and the P&amp;C companies.
And you talked about the financial reasons why it may not make sense but I'd like to hear your thoughts strategically whether you feel these 2 operations should still be together.
Thanks for the question.
As we said and I think Chris's comments were pretty complete in addition to the slide there are significant challenges to making a split possible.
We're not unaware of some of the potential benefits if it was possible in terms of greater focus but it's in our view the challenges are fairly significant at the present time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a follow-up Liam in terms of the process in terms of looking at which units are potentially underperforming or need to be reduced in presence I mean when will we get some more news on that? Well Jay let's go back to -- thanks again for the follow-up.
Let's go back to our December investor conference and as you recall in my remarks I did break the company down into a portfolio businesses I think at a fairly granular fashion then I made comments on each of the businesses in terms of first of all where it stood relative to its current returns and our growth or profit maximization strategies.
And as you recall in the top right quadrant there were a number of businesses that have actually very current attractive returns and we're trying to grow those because we can do so profitably.
And then some of them in the middle to bottom left that have below optimal returns today and we're really working hard to maximize the profitability.
Since we met with you in December I would say this team is working on that very thoroughly very rigorously and we have a sense of urgency about doing that.
Because first of all we're not -- we don't believe the current stock price reflects the value of the company.
We're evaluating these businesses individually by their ROE their capital generation and their future capital requirements or capital consumption their risk profile and their growth potential.
And what I'll say is we're being objective rigorous and thorough about the types of actions that might enable us to achieve the goal of increasing shareholder value and I think we'll keep you informed as we make those decisions.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to draw down a bit more just on the commentary regarding the strategy that you alluded to in December.
Can you maybe just put some parameters around what this may or may not include? And then how are you thinking about sort of balancing your review sort of with kind of the voices you've been hearing from investors in terms of their patience and in terms of generating shareholder value? Thanks Chris for the question.
I think I commented pretty extensively in the prior question about the process we're going through.
I'd add a couple of other things.
First of all in this environment this management team is very focused on managing the levers that we can control.
I think the progress we've made on making the company more efficient in '11 and will continue to do so in '12 and '13 are appropriate and necessary in view of the current low interest rate environment and the market volatility.
The balance sheet is much stronger today starting with the investment portfolio.
The progress that we've made there over the last 2 years number one.
Secondly the transparency we gave you in October around our balance sheet.
Japan our overall VA book our ability to withstand stress scenarios.
I think our risk management enterprise risk management is much stronger and enables us to manage the company better.
And we are seeing benefits as a result of our 3 customer-aligned businesses.
Just to reiterate the management team does not believe that the current share price reflects the value of the company.
I think we've -- to your point Chris we've heard that from shareholders and we've heard it from some other observers and I think that's why we're communicating very clearly that we are -- we will be objective and pragmatic about the types of actions that may best enable our goal -- to achieve our goal of realizing greater value for shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And then just wanted to follow-up on sort of Slide 17 here I guess focusing more on the Life side of things.
You point to kind of not having infinite patience on the VA business and potentially doing something.
And you alluded in December that you wouldn't rule out putting that into Runoff.
So I guess if you put that into runoff you'd have a lot of the Wealth Management business in the Runoff block so why would there be such an intense focus on preserving the single A rating if so much of the business was in Runoff? And could you look to then potentially sell some of the remaining attractive assets like the Group or Mutual Fund business? Well Chris I -- Chris Swift may have some comment on this as well.
I'd just remind you that -- first of all let's talk about the VA business for a moment.
We're well aware of the questions about our strategy in the U.S.
VA book.
I think in short we believe we have the components we need to succeed in the business.
Distribution new products that have been out relatively short period of time and as Chris noted some period-over-period momentum and we're seeing signs of that continue early on in the year.
In addition the macro environment appears to be shifting in a way to it'd be more favorable to the types of products that we're offering.
However and just to reiterate what I said in December I think I was very clear on this to your question we are managing the business very closely watching the trends.
David Levenson I think is watching them very closely.
Our timeframe as I said in December and as Chris reiterated is not unlimited.
And we do need and I need to see meaningful progress in profitable sales in the near future.
So I think that's very consistent with the tone and the statements that we made in December and I think an appropriate position.
In terms of ratings I'll just say at high level.
First of all I think the notion that if we were to decide to put U.S.
VA into Runoff that it would create immediate material amounts of capital liberated is not true in our view number one.
And number two remember that we have other businesses -- the Mutual Fund business the Life business and the Retirement business -- that are very ratings sensitive and we would -- if we were able to do that scenario we would not want to do anything that would destroy their value.
Chris anything you'd add to that? No I think that's well said particularly on the businesses.
I think the only other point on allocating 1/3 of the debt to the holding company.
Chris I think you remember that we believe statutory earnings and capital generation particularly in the near-term '12 is limited.
So allocating almost 2/3 of the holding company debt is probably even aggressive on the surface.
But Liam I think your points are good as far as the impacts of other business if those decisions are taken.
Your next question comes from the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones.
So just to follow-up real quick on Slide 17.
I guess my question is it seems like debt allocation or just debt levels might be an impediment here or might be one of the most meaningful impediments here.
So I guess it begs the question why not spend your excess capital instead of on share repurchases on debt paydown at least to provide some optionality to you? Yes John it's Chris.
Thanks for the question and -- the debt restructuring is a priority for us.
I think given how we've defined deployable capital in the past roughly about $500 million we've targeted the share buyback as a higher priority the most accretive to shareholders.
But the debt restructuring and its associated impact on earnings and leverage is high on the list and it's something that we think about very aggressively.
Well said Chris and I think it's not only from a flexibility perspective John but also just a carrying cost perspective on some of the components of our debt that you're well aware of.
So I think the management team is very focused.
We're proud of the strengthening we've done on the balance sheet in the first couple of years but your question is a very appropriate one that Chris and I and the management team are factoring in things like share repurchase potential warrant repurchases etc.
Research Division</strong> And then just a quick one on the Life company capital.
Certainly given strong equity markets in the quarter I was pleased to see the $300 million improvement in the statutory capital from the VA business.
Obviously interest rates remain a pressure point.
Following the moves in the Life company statutory capital and the reserves where would you estimate the risk-based capital would come in for year end? Yes John it's Chris again.
I'd say thanks for noticing the decent recovery in VA.
I would also just point out that as we closed out year end particularly in the life insurance business so we updated our cash flow testing analysis and that created a little bit of a headwind for us.
But when you put it all together we wouldn't estimate that our main company is -- RBC is between $415 million and $420 million.
Our capital at White River Re is well in excess of $125-basis-point target and we have approximately $400 million of actual tangible surplus there.
In Champlain we did make a capital contribution to Champlain.
$80 million of that was funded by the Life company.
So we sent a dividend up to the holding company of $80 million contributed back to Champlain with another $20 million of holding company resources.
So Champlain is above our targets and it actually has $265 million of stated surplus and then you saw the $1.3 billion of surplus in Japan.
If you put it all together we actually feel pretty good about our statutory resources in the various entities.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Finkelstein with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Sort of a follow-up to John's question.
Chris you talked about statutory capital flattish sequentially obviously markets were up but that had a mark-to-market on the derivatives which overwhelmed the reserve change.
Not to get too technical but -- I guess what I'm asking is at what point in the market if we continue to go up would you actually see that reversal where you actually start increasing your statutory capital as the reserve changes are more meaningful than the mark-to-market on the derivatives? Mark it's Chris thanks.
I would say to just this context the U.S.
equity markets were up nicely.
I mean but the other markets where we are participate in with our Japanese annuity blocks I would say were mixed to down.
I mean if you look at interest rates if you look at Europe if you look at Japan the Nikkei was substantially down.
So I think the positive impacts on VA carbon reserves in the Life book were offset by the net negatives around the world.
That said I think you're really trying to -- and we've talked about it before is measured sort of the inflection point of where things start to turn positive from a capital generation side.
And I'll just go back to our comments that we do see substantial capital generation in '13 and beyond obviously as market levels improve.
I don't think there's a precise number I'd give you but when you're north of 13 070 and approaching those types of levels I mean it really does take a lot of pressure off the VA CARVM reserves.
As you know we've talked about somewhat -- those being on a lag.
But there's not a precise thing.
It's just I'll call it continued healing but there's also I would say a lot of continued pressure in the low interest rate environment also.
So you could have a medium impact of just looking at one equity market index and you really got to consider all our indices that go into liability calculation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a question on the Variable Annuity business.
You're launching some new products.
It feels like the products are a little bit more consistent with some of the living benefit guarantees that are out there in the market so you're kind of -- feels like you're jumping kind of into that kind of game little bit.
And it's a little bit -- feels like a little bit of a different strategy than what it's been which is kind of pick your spots very focused on kind of lower risk but some -- obviously value to the consumer.
So I'm just curious about the product that you're selling how you think it's positioned and I guess ultimately how you're making sure that the risk management around it is very robust? So Mark this is Dave Levenson.
Thanks for the question.
So as it relates to the new product filing which is what you're referring to we are always looking to make improvements in products as part of the normal course of business.
So what you saw was clearly a filing for the Annuity business but as we're in a quiet period with the SEC I really don't want to comment too much as it relates to the details.
Our absolute focus right now is really on growing the business with the product portfolio that we have today.
As it relates to your question around profitability and risk I would say we pay very close attention to this as you heard Liam say in his comments with a focus on profitability.
The ROE and the product we have today is what I would say on a fully hedged basis very close to the cost of capital at scale.
And from a risk perspective we're -- we think the product that we sell today is more than acceptable.
So 3 things to add to that.
First we hedged the product fully; second the NAR of the business that we put on the books is less than 1% of our total sales; and third the personal protection portfolios which is a core part of the product had a volatility last year that was about 1/3 of the level of the S&amp;P.
So the issue for us is really a scale issue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just one very quick follow up.
How are you defining cost of capital in this business? It's the weighted average cost of capital that we hold on a GAAP basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Randy Binner with FBR.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the annuity area and kind of more on the sale side.
I think back in the December day you all had talked about a $3 billion to $5 billion all-in sales goal across annuities.
And so I think you also said that the fourth quarter should be somewhat of a litmus test for the new VA product.
The run rate's considerably low to achieve $3 billion.
So just be interested if there was something that made the fourth quarter not a good litmus test for VA and if you still think that goal is attainable and if indexed annuities might play a big part in that? Randy it's Dave again.
Thanks for the question.
So we recognize that the $258 million that we did in the quarter does not get us to our guidance.
I'd say that said we really only had a competitive product in the marketplace for the last 6 months.
So we've been essentially out of the market since 2009 and back in since June.
The PDF fund which again is the secret sauce underlying the product it's very innovative and frankly it needed some proof of concept which I think took a little bit longer than we expected.
But with 6 months behind our belt I feel very good about where that is right now.
As it relates to the fourth quarter specifically as was mentioned earlier in the remarks 2008 was the first time that we saw our sequential increase in sales and when you start looking inter-quarter our story gets a little bit more interesting where December was the best month we had in the year and was up 45% over October.
So let me address your question about 2012 and whether or not I still feel like we can achieve it.
The answer is yes.
Clearly as Liam mentioned the market is rationalizing competitors are raising fees they're reducing benefits they're getting out of the business.
We think this is all good for us.
Our biggest distributor in Wealth Management added the product just recently it was the end of October.
We are in very good discussions right now to add the product to shelves at 2 of the top 20 firms.
The only top 2 -- the only 2 of the 20 firms in the industry that don't carry this product today.
We changed our national sales manager in September and we have much greater discipline focus and accountability.
And as importantly we're attracting some of the top wholesalers from many of our competitors.
But with that backdrop I think the punchline is that we really know what we have to do with respect to showing sales and sales momentum and the management team is confident and committed to getting there.
So Randy you can see that Dave is managing this business very closely and I think that reflects the fact that we need to see meaningful profitable sales progress in the near future and I think he's doing all the right things to make that happen.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
Just a quick follow-up.
Indexed annuities I mean could those become a material part of this in 2012? Or should we really think of this is as being kind of a VA phenomenon to get to that goal? So Randy the FIA product that we launched in '11 was really a table sticks product.
It's really going to be the offering that we bring out in the summertime that we think is very innovative combined with WealthVest which as you know is our third-party focused distributor on this.
So I would say it will contribute but if it -- it will contribute but it will be more in the second half of the year where it contributes.
Your next question comes from the line of Meyer Shields with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I want to applaud your candor with discussion -- with discussing the separation of Life and the P&amp;C companies.
And I don't want to contradict that with this question but can you share your thoughts about how this disclosure is actually going to impact the unit's performance in the near term? I'm not sure I understand the question.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> We'll I'm -- putting it in probably overly blunt terms if distributors look at the Life business as being somewhat on the block is that going to make it harder for them to actually sell the product? I think you completely misinterpreted the nature of our discussion.
So again I don't think we said that.
We did not say that.
I think we commented very specifically and very precisely on questions that we've been asked by shareholders about a potential tax resplit of the P&amp;C company.
I think to your -- thank you for recognizing our candor.
And I would just go back to what I've said a couple of times which is as we -- and I more specifically went through and then the business leaders went in greater detail we are managing our company as a portfolio of businesses.
We intend to maximize the value of each of those businesses because we do not believe our share price accurately reflects the value of the company and of the enterprise and that we're evaluating strategy and business portfolio for opportunities as a result of that philosophy to deliver greater value for shareholders and we'll be objective and pragmatic and thorough and rigorous about the best ways to achieve this goal.
I just want to be sure that you heard me correctly.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No I think I did.
If I can shift gears just a little bit.
The workers' compensation rate increases that you've talked about is that impacting retention for other product lines? It is not.
This is Doug Elliot.
It is not impacting our retentions across other lines.
It is impacting some of the workers' comp retentions.
But at the moment we are more than pleased with the trade-off we're seeing in that book of business and very encouraged as we finish the year with really strong pricing momentum across those workers' compensation line.
Very pleased about the last 3 months.
And as Chris noted incremental progress between October to November to December as we head off into 2012.
Your next question comes from the line of Lawrence Sarly [ph] with Paulson &amp; Co.
This is John Paulson speaking.
Liam I want to go back to the Slide 17 talking about the potential separating the Life and P&amp;C business.
And the -- I know you're doing a strategic review but there's no slide talking about what the potential would be just that there's challenges.
Goldman Sachs came out with I think a very good analysis a few months ago where they showed this is -- that they estimate the upside to doing a tax-free spinoff of P&amp;C can be over 70% of what the current stock price is trading at.
Now I agree that there's going to be challenges but isn't your job to really overcome those challenges to achieve the maximum value for shareholders? Now I would say that Hartford needs to do something drastic because the stock is the lowest valuation relative to book value of any major insurance company.
Last year Hartford stock was down 38% while the P&amp;C stocks were up 14% and even declined much more than the Life index which was down 21%.
So what I'd like to see you do is not merely come back and say yes we're looking at strategic options but there's challenges to achieving them.
But what -- first of all do you agree that you could create as much as 70% value for your shareholders by spinning off -- separating P&amp;C? And secondly is [indiscernible] incentive to overcome the challenges that it's going to take to spin this off? And how long is -- how long do we have to wait to hear if there's going to be a positive recommendation to separate these 2 businesses? Thanks John for the question.
First of all the analysis and the intent of the comments was to acknowledge that the challenges are significant not to say that they could not be overcome.
Second of all our analysis including the frictional costs if you will that are in the third category would suggest that a split would not create the kind of shareholder value that that particular report suggested.
And third in addition I think the -- your sense of urgency about realizing greater value for shareholders is shared by me and by this team.
And so I hope I answered your questions succinctly and correctly.
Partially Liam.
But if it is -- if you share the interest all shareholders have at increasing shareholder value I'm surprised that as part of the discussion you don't talk about how much value could be created by separating the P&amp;C business from the Life business and not the only slide you devote to it talking about that there's some obstacles to overcome.
I'm talking about the upside and weighing the upside of the separation against what the obstacles are.
And better yet not just listing as obstacles but what I'd like to see is how you will overcome those obstacles to result at a more -- a fair valuation for Hartford.
Not that there's obstacles but how are you going to overcome those obstacles? That's what I as a shareholder look from you as the management to do.
Thank you John.
And I -- that is our mindset.
Our purpose in the slide was to identify the hurdles.
You can -- if you heard our language we did not say they were not surmountable number one.
We said there were significant costs to surmount them in a number of areas so we felt we owed shareholders that disclosure.
Number two we do not believe that splitting them in the current environment for the reasons that we cited will create shareholder value.
And third again I'll reiterate we have an incredible sense of urgency on looking at all ideas to create a shareholder value.
Well I think you need to do a much better job of explaining that because Goldman's report is a very good report on a path to separate the business and create what they estimate is a 70% increase in shareholder value.
And then you merely say there's some obstacles and you don't equate what the costs are to the benefit and what value you think could be created.
Because right now with the stock performing as poorly as it has relative to both P&amp;C and Life companies I think you need a better explanation of what you're going to do to enhance shareholder value merely that you're working hard and you're committed but there's obstacles.
What we need you to do is overcome the obstacles to enhance the valuation for your shareholders not merely to point out that there's obstacles.
Hey John thank you.
I hear you loud and clear.
Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Kligerman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Why don't I just start off with capital.
It looked like you had some improvement in the Life co stat capital and that was a surprise to me.
And for the Investor Day you're going to generate about $800 million in capital a year out of the P&amp;C company.
So what I'd like to know is when you finish up the $500 million buyback which I think you're saying is early 2Q it will have been about a year since your last authorization of  $500 million.
Could you give a little color on the flexibility that you might have to authorize another buyback? And I don't know if you -- just flexibility amount timing.
I know you can't be overly specific but a little flexibility commentary would help.
Andrew it's Chris.
Thanks for the comments.
I think your comments are right.
Again we finished fourth quarter in decent shape particularly at the Life company.
I would say one point of clarification that we planned to take out $800 million of dividends out of the P&amp;C company but we do expect the P&amp;C company to generate slightly more in statutory earnings and that the Life group we're still calling right now for flat to slightly down.
But a lot of that is path dependence on markets hedging performance.
But directionally it's still -- I'd like you to take away it's still a constrained model for 2012.
So as we said and as Liam said and I said we are going to complete the program in early second quarter.
At that time we will evaluate call it our deployable capital levels our capital needs for different initiatives and then determine our future actions and communicate them at that point in time.
But as we've said we see capital and surplus increasing in 2013 at the Life company so that gives us hope and optimism that we will continue to have flexibility in '13 and beyond particularly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And possibly in mid '12? Possibly.
Again Hard to predict.
We'd like to finish what we started do the evaluation compare obviously a lot of different options for our deployable capital and then come up with the best solution at that time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just following up on one of the business lines.
One of your rationales for being a multi-line company was aligning the Commercial Markets businesses the Group Benefits along with the Commercial P&amp;C.
And I'd like an update on -- well first off it looks like AIG actually copied what you did based on some of the things I've been reading about.
And secondly I'd like to get a sense of sales volumes and some of the impact that you're having there.
Andrew this is Doug.
We talked about that at the December 8 day in quite some detail and those discussions continue as we close 2011 and head into 2012.
So we had quite a bit of success greater than $125 million of sales working across our group and P&amp;C space in 2011.
We have challenging goals for '12.
As I travel -- and 2 weeks ago I was in Orlando.
I spent several hours in the morning with our comp and group people together to talk about issues to make sure that we're firing on all cylinders and we're looking for opportunities in the marketplace.
So absolutely on a day-to-day basis those opportunities continue to be chased and we're looking for more to leverage the breadth of product that we have here at The Hartford.
Research Division</strong> And you think that could result in a turnaround negative 3% sales year-over-year? The dynamics of the sales process themselves is much more related to our need for margin improvement in group than our margin improvement needs across Middle Market.
So when I think about top line given the scale of those businesses we're clearly driving rate change at those 2 businesses.
As you looked at the bubble chart that Liam took you through in December we have several businesses that need significant rate and we are doing everything we can on a day-to-day basis to get that done.
And that's more driver relative to top line than this other dynamic.
Thank you Andrew.
Keesha we have time for one more question please.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Glasspiegel with Langen McAlenney.
I wanted to zero in on AARP.
Chris you said that you're pleased with the -- where you are and in position to grow.
Liam you sort of said that's a franchise operation which I totally concur.
I'm just confused on where it is in the sort of fixed versus grow mode.
With premiums down 4% and the overall auto underwriting at 96 it seems like AARP should be in a position to grow not being one of the fixed candidates.
If it is a franchise as I think and it's in a demographic that's favorable why is it not growing more? Bob this is Andy.
It's a great question.
So I'd kind of take you back 18 months ago we had profit issues in the division probably more pronounced in agency than with AARP.
But nonetheless we were taking above market rate increases across all channels and products so when you grow it would be impacted.
But quite frankly given the competitive environment that we -- that confronted us in 2010 and '11 it was greater than anticipated affecting both new business and retention.
So since then we've been working really hard to achieve rate adequacy and restore growth to divisions especially AARP.
It's very much still a work in progress but as you commented in AARP Direct we are converging on our combined ratio pricing targets.
I actually expect that to happen sometime in 2012.
New business has rebounded very nicely and that will continue to play out as 2012 plays out.
The big objective for us right now is to get retention where it needs to be and until we do that we expect that to happen in -- throughout '12 and into '13 we'll restore total premium growth to AARP.
Still a valuable franchise extremely important to us strategically and we're well on our way to getting that back on track.
Where does auto have to be to get your ROE objective? You don't break out AARP so -- if you could give me AARP's targeted combined ratio to get to the ROE that would be great.
But I don't think auto in general would be...
Yes auto around 95 or so.
Okay.
We're -- I mean you're at 96 overall and AARP is I assume better than agency.
So why couldn't AARP be growing right now? I think it's just a timing thing.
It's the way we -- the rate increase has played out in '09 and '10.
Retention was impacted more than we thought it would be.
Now we're recovering it.
Thank you Bob and thank you also Keesha.
We look forward to seeing and talking to you all soon.
And as always we appreciate your interest in and support of The Hartford.
Have a good day.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Nicole and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Hartford First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Sabra Purtill Head of Investor Relations.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to The Hartford's First Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Our speakers today are Liam McGee The Hartford's Chairman President and CEO; and Chris Swift our CFO.
Other members of our senior management team here today include Doug Elliot Alan Kreczko Dave Levenson Andy Napoli Bob Rupp and Hugh Whelan.
After Liam and Chris' presentation we will have time for questions.
Please note that as discussed on Page 2 of the presentation any statements made today concerning The Hartford's future results or actions should be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results may differ materially from these statements.
We assume no obligation to update the forward-looking statements.
You should also consider the important risks and uncertainties that may cause results to differ including those discussed in our press release our first quarter 10-Q our 2011 10-K and other filings we make with the SEC.
These documents are available in the Investor Information section of The Hartford's website.
I also need to mention that our presentation today includes some financial measures that are not derived from generally accepted accounting principles.
Definitions and reconciliations to these measures -- of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are provided in our financial supplement press release and 10-Q.
I'll now turn the call over to Liam.
Thank you Sabra.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
Yesterday we announced strong first quarter results with core earnings up 11% to $1.25 per diluted share.
Our P&amp;C combined ratio was 95.7% a very good result.
Strong pricing momentum continued in the P&amp;C Commercial segment and we had significantly improved new business growth in Consumer Markets.
We also achieved several significant accomplishments.
We concluded the strategic evaluation of the businesses and announced our plan to focus on the Property &amp; Casualty Group Benefits and Mutual Funds businesses.
This is The Hartford's best path forward to deliver greater value for shareholders.
So in order to increase transparency on our go-forward businesses we expanded P&amp;C disclosures this quarter providing more details on Small Commercial Middle Market and Consumer Markets.
Going forward our presentations will focus on greater detail on the performance about our go-forward businesses and the progress in reducing the size and amount of risk in the Runoff division.
We are moving quickly to execute the plan we outlined in March including selling businesses placing the annuity block into Runoff and exploring options for the Runoff division.
Let me update you briefly on each of these.
The sales processes for Individual Life Retirement Plans and Woodbury Financial are going well.
The offering memoranda for each are in the marketplace.
There is great interest in each property.
We expect to have a competitive auction process and we expect definitive agreements later this year.
I am proud of the hard work and dedication of the employees in these businesses.
They are focused on delivering successful and valuable businesses to the ultimate buyers.
The proceeds from these sales will give us additional financial flexibility that over time we expect to use for capital management actions and some debt reduction.
We will also consider options for reducing risk in the Runoff businesses or reinvesting in our go-forward businesses.
In addition last week we announced an agreement to sell the Individual Annuity new business capabilities.
This sale does not change our decision to put the in-force block into Runoff nor does it have a material financial impact on The Hartford.
However it does provide an opportunity for us to place our innovative products strong distribution capabilities and talented employees with an organization committed to the annuity space.
We are also working hard on initiatives to further reduce the size and risk of the Life runoff segment which will shrink over time through policyholder lapses.
While our ultimate goal is to isolate or separate the annuity block from our go-forward businesses the management team is currently concentrating on transactional and operational opportunities for individual books of business.
With respect to transactions we are exploring a wide range of potential opportunities including sales reinsurance and other structural concepts.
A variety of parties have expressed initial interest in parts of the block.
Of course any transactions will need to balance short-term economics with the long-term objective of reducing liabilities which would allow us to redeploy some of the capital currently allocated to the Runoff block.
It's still early but we do expect some of these potential opportunities to materialize over time particularly as the capital markets continue to stabilize.
On the operational side we are pursuing options such as outsourcing or different fund options that will reduce risk or expenses.
And of course we anticipate achieving expense reductions of $100 million before tax in 2013 by placing Individual Annuity segment into Runoff.
In April we also refinanced the Allianz debt and repurchased their warrants.
The refinancing strengthens our balance sheet by reducing long-term interest costs and improving financial flexibility by extending the debt maturity schedule.
The warrant repurchase eliminates a material source of future dilution.
Allianz remains a major shareholder of The Hartford and we appreciate their support.
We are already beginning to execute on our strategy.
By focusing on the Property &amp; Casualty Group Benefits and Mutual Fund businesses we will over time deliver sustained superior returns and greater shareholder value.
In order to achieve these objectives we are focused on 3 key goals: first improving margins and ROEs in our go-forward businesses; second strengthening overall capital generation; and third reducing the volatility of our earnings and capital.
So let me go through each of these in a little more detail.
Our go-forward businesses have strong ROEs although there is room for improvement.
Combined we expect them to achieve a 12% to 13% ROE for 2012 and we are hard at work to improve this in 2013 and beyond.
To achieve this we're concentrating on improving margins in Middle Market and Group Benefits and growing the top line in Small Commercial and Mutual Funds.
In the P&amp;C Commercial segment our Small Commercial business is a long-standing market leader with good opportunities for continued profitable growth particularly as the U.S.
economy and small business formation recover.
Written premiums were up 8% this quarter with a 91.8% combined ratio.
We continue to be a preferred company for small business customers driven by our long-term record of innovation ranging from product to technology to service capabilities.
In Middle Market Doug Elliot and his team are improving product diversification and pricing particularly in workers' compensation.
I'm especially pleased with the pricing and margin improvements we've achieved over the past 6 months although that has meant giving up some top line growth.
Middle Market's combined ratio x cats in prior year was 99.2% down from last year but still above what we need to achieve acceptable returns.
In the first quarter retention remained strong despite price increases of approximately 10% for the total Middle Market book.
In Group Benefits we achieved good rate increases on the first quarter renewals but earnings are well below the segment's potential.
The incidence in termination trends we are seeing are consistent with our competitors and largely due to the high unemployment rate but we need to do better.
With the new Group Benefits management in place we have initiatives underway in sales pricing underwriting and claims.
It will take time before the financial benefit of this work falls to the bottom line particularly on pricing given the 3-year contract terms in this business.
Nevertheless we like the mortality and morbidity underwriting margins of this business as well as its long-term growth and return prospects.
We have a strong franchise with a top-tier market position and excellent sales and distribution capabilities.
With the success of our initiatives and some lift from an improving economy and unemployment trends we believe that Group Benefits will once again achieve sustained superior returns.
The principal goal for Consumer Markets has been to improve margins and Andy Napoli and his team have made great progress.
The current year combined ratio x cats is improving year-over-year for 4 of the last 5 quarters and we are increasing rates in homeowners to reflect high-cat and non-cat weather experience.
With better margins Consumer Markets is now striving for top line growth through both increasing retention and new business growth.
We're doing well in both of these metrics.
Retention has improved as a result of customer outreach and pricing initiatives while new business levels have improved strongly.
New business growth was favorable for the third quarter in a row and has now returned to acceptable levels.
This success was due to improved response and conversion rates as well as to our award-winning customer service.
This week J.D.
Power and Associates announced that The Hartford was ranked highest in customer satisfaction with the auto insurance shopping experience an important accomplishment for our Consumer Markets team and for our customers.
In Mutual Funds we are confident that going forward we are well positioned to generate good growth in this high-return business.
We are moving quickly to leverage our expanded relationship with Wellington.
We want to transition all of the fixed income investment management to Wellington by the end of June and we expect that the second half of the year will produce significant improvement in net flows.
Improving margins and ROEs also requires us to remain focused on continued expense efficiency across the entire organization.
After reducing expenses by $150 million in 2011 we took out another $30 million in the first quarter.
We are continuing to execute on the efficiency objectives we established last year.
In addition we recently established a dedicated business transformation process to ensure that we remove all costs associated with the 3 businesses being sold and that corporate overhead and other shared service expenses are rightsized for the go-forward Hartford businesses.
Our second goal for creating sustained superior performance is improving capital generation.
Our go-forward businesses have historically been strong capital generators but the Runoff businesses and Individual Life and Retirement Plans have not.
As a result our Life statutory capital generation has been constrained over the past several years.
Statutory capital requirements in the Life company should decline over time with the sale of the 3 Life businesses and the reduction of the Runoff book through lapses or management actions.
The statutory earnings power of the P&amp;C Group Benefits and Mutual Funds businesses will grow in the future.
Combined we expect our total capital generation going forward to be stronger than what it has been in the last few years.
Finally a third goal is to significantly reduce the sensitivity of our capital and earnings to financial markets risks.
Our go-forward businesses are less sensitive to changes in the capital markets.
Of course we're focused on reducing the size of the variable annuity block which is the primary source of our current market volatility.
Some of this will occur naturally over time through policyholder lapses and withdrawals.
But in addition we will be prepared to take advantage of potential opportunities to isolate or separate the Runoff block that are both feasible from a regulatory perspective and create shareholder value.
Through these efforts we will ultimately free up capital from our divestitures and Runoff businesses and we will be able to redeploy in our go-forward businesses and return to shareholders.
And over time The Hartford's financial profile will evolve into more of a property and casualty company with strong returns and capital generation and limited sensitivity to capital market volatility.
This was a strong quarter for The Hartford.
We had good financial results favorable momentum in many of our go-forward businesses and have successful debt refinancing and warrant repurchase.
The sales processes are going well and with our sharper strategic focus I am confident that we are on the right path to generate sustained superior returns and create greater shareholder value going forward.
I and the rest of the team are very optimistic and excited about our future.
I'll now turn the call over to Chris.
Thank you Liam.
Good morning everyone.
I'll begin on Slide 5.
First quarter core earnings were $612 million or $1.25 per diluted share representing an 11% improvement over prior year.
Excluding the $192 million DAC unlock core earnings were $420 million or $0.86 per diluted share so it's a 7% increase compared to prior year.
These results were largely in line with the estimate we provided on March 21 except for catastrophes.
Cats were running about $20 million favorable to budget through mid-March.
But with the late March storm activity total cats ended the quarter at $46 million after tax in line with our budget.
Prior-year development was slightly favorable at $19 million after tax with releases in personal lines offset by some modest development in P&amp;C Commercial.
The investment portfolio yield was stable this quarter at 4.2% excluding partnerships.
We are modestly increasing allocations to higher-yield assets and purchasing longer-duration bonds.
Returns on alternatives and limited partnerships were 8% and we continue to expect an annualized return of 9% for 2012.
Impairments and changes to the mortgage loan loss reserve remained low at $28 million pretax in the quarter.
Slide 6 shows book value per diluted common share on a restated basis for the new DAC accounting standard.
At the end of the first quarter book value per diluted share was $43.25 an increase of 12% over last year.
Excluding AOCI book value per diluted share rose by 1% to $40.55.
Let's turn to our business results by segment.
Slide 7 shows the summary results for P&amp;C Commercial.
Core earnings were $162 million a decline of 8% from prior year.
Results included $13 million after tax of prior-year net reserve strengthening across multiple lines.
Importantly there were no meaningful reserve adjustments related to our workers' compensation loss experience.
The combined ratio x cat x prior year was 96.4%.
We expect this to improve as written price increases earn in over the remainder of 2012.
We continue to see strong price momentum in P&amp;C Commercial.
In the first quarter we achieved renewal price increases of 7% the highest level since the fourth quarter of 2003.
We're especially pleased with renewal price trends in Middle Market workers' compensation where first quarter price increases were up 14%.
Policy count retention remained strong at 83% for standard commercial.
This metric is clearly influenced by the large number of Small Commercial policies.
If you look at retention on a premium weighted basis over the past year Small Commercial retention has been flat while Middle Market retention has declined.
This retention decline has been more than offset by improved pricing.
We are very pleased with this trade-off as this will lead to continued margin expansion and ROE improvement.
Shifting to Group Benefits core earnings of $5 million remain well below our expectations.
The loss ratio of 83% reflected elevated disability incidence and the lack of improvement in termination trends.
We're addressing these disappointing results in 2 ways.
First we continue to take rate actions on accounts that are not meeting profitability targets.
As Liam mentioned it will take some time to get the profitability of the book to targeted levels given the multiyear nature of the rate guarantees.
Given our rate actions and the very competitive marketplace persistency declined in the first quarter -- on first quarter renewals to 66% from 72% in the prior year.
Ongoing sales are down 7% primarily driven by a 21% decline in group disability sales.
Group life sales increased 5% from the prior year.
Second we are reviewing all operational processes to identify ways to improve profitability.
We recently appointed a new leader for this segment Mike Concannon.
Mike's property and casualty background brings a fresh perspective for potential improvement opportunities in many operational areas like underwriting pricing and claims management.
Turning to Slide 9 Consumer Markets reported first quarter core earnings of $102 million down $9 million from prior year.
Andy Napoli and his team are successfully executing on the strategy for this business.
The combined ratio and retention improved and new business production was strong.
First quarter combined ratio excluding cats and prior-year development was 88.8% a slight improvement from last year's 89.0%.
We continue to manage our rate increases appropriately with a 6% renewal written price increase in homeowners and 4% in auto.
Like the rest of the personal lines industry our homeowners book requires additional rate and underwriting actions to respond to recent weather trends.
Overall retention was up 2 points to 84% in auto and 85% in homeowners.
While we are pleased with the improvement we still need another point or 2 in order to reach our targeted levels.
New business written premium was up 30% in auto and 32% in home.
After declining in the first half of 2011 new business premiums are now back to historic levels.
Most of the new business growth is coming from our more profitable channels.
For example written premiums in AARP Agency almost doubled to $27 million from the prior year.
We provided additional granularity in our financial supplement on written and earned and premiums by channel so you can track our progress.
We're encouraged by these positive results.
With improving margins Consumer Markets is now poised to profitably grow while also improving their ROEs.
Wealth Management results are summarized in Slide 10.
First quarter core earnings x DAC unlock were $154 million 15% lower than prior year.
This decrease was largely due to a 7% decline in assets under management primarily from net outflows in Individual Annuities.
Individual Annuity core earnings x DAC unlock were $96 million down 11% from prior year.
This segment will be reported in the Runoff division next quarter.
The first quarter annualized lapse rate for the U.S.
in-force VA block was about 14% in line with our expectations.
Since our announcement to exit the Individual Annuity businesses lapses have increased approximately 20% in the U.S.
and 4% in Japan.
It's too soon to judge whether lapses will remain at these levels but if they do it will accelerate the runoff of the VA book.
Core earnings in Individual Life x DAC unlock were $34 million a decline of $4 million from prior year due to lower alternative investment returns as well as slightly higher expenses.
Individual Life sales were up 13% over prior year and increased across all key distribution channels.
In the individual Retirement Plans core earnings were $4 million down $5 million from the prior year.
Spread compression on the general account products continues to weigh on results.
Assets under management had a record $57.2 billion aided by rising equity markets and positive net flows.
As a result of our planned sales we have evaluated the goodwill balances for Individual Life and Retirement Plans in the first quarter.
No impairment is necessary at this time.
However we will continue to monitor its recoverability.
Moving to Mutual Funds core earnings were $20 million down $7 million from prior year due to lower assets under management.
First quarter fund performance improved particularly in our largest fund Capital Appreciation Fund.
Overall more than 80% of the funds outperformed their benchmarks.
This strong quarterly performance contributed to an increase in non-proprietary fund deposits of 18% on a sequential basis.
The results of our Runoff division are on Slide 11.
Core earnings x DAC unlock were $105 million basically in line with prior year.
As Liam discussed we have a number of initiatives underway to shrink the size and risk of this book.
This will allow us to redeploy the capital allocated to this business over time.
As you know rising equity markets higher interest rates and a weakening yen are all positives for our in-force VA book.
The economic value of the VA book is greatly improved as a result of these market conditions.
During the quarter the net amount at risk related to our VA book declined substantially.
For example the NAR related to the U.S.
and Japan GMDB business improved $5.3 billion during the quarter.
This improvement isn't always evident in our GAAP and statutory accounting results given the mismatch between the carrying value of the hedge assets and the VA reserves.
As you can see on Slide 12 that on a GAAP basis the net change in VA reserves and hedge assets generated a loss of approximately $1.1 billion which reflects the asymmetrical accounting for our U.S.
GMDB and Japan guarantees.
On a statutory basis the decline in the value of the hedge assets exceeded the change in the value of the U.S.
VACARVM reserves by $183 million.
It's important to note that our hedge program continues to work as designed.
Its primary focus is economic risk not GAAP accounting results.
As the markets change we will adjust our targets in order to maintain appropriate hedging levels.
On Slide 13 is our statutory surplus roll-forward.
U.S.
statutory surplus increased approximately $600 million in the first quarter before dividends.
Consistent with our practice a $200 million dividend was declared from the P&amp;C to the holding company in order to cover interest dividends and other expenses.
The P&amp;C operations generated more than $300 million of statutory operating income and almost $200 million of other positive surplus impacts including investment-related gains.
Life statutory operating income excluding VA turned positive this quarter and was approximately $100 million.
This was largely offset by the VA hedge-related impacts I mentioned earlier.
In total the Life operations ended the quarter with a modest increase in statutory surplus.
As you can see on Slide 14 we ended the quarter with $17.9 billion of capital resources.
Holding company resources declined almost $100 million in the quarter reflecting dividends interests and share repurchase activity.
We expect holding company resources to decline modestly in the second quarter due to this element of the warrant repurchase.
Turning to Slide 15 we were very pleased to complete the Allianz transactions which were a major step in restructuring the balance sheet and enhancing our financial flexibility.
On April 17 we repaid $1.75 billion par value of Allianz junior subordinated debt with the proceeds from the issuance of $1.55 billion of senior notes and $600 million of new junior subordinated debt.
This new debt has a blended interest rate of approximately 6% versus the 10% coupon on the Allianz debt.
This reduces annual interest paid by $45 million on a pretax basis.
As a result our statutory dividend coverage ratio is improved by almost 0.5 point to 4x.
In the second quarter we will take an after-tax charge to net income of approximately $600 million to reflect the premium paid to retire the debt and to write off the related unamortized discount and debt costs.
We also purchased all the outstanding Allianz warrants for $300 million.
This transaction reduced first quarter book value by $0.61 per diluted share.
In addition early in the first quarter we purchased 2.6 million shares of common stock.
To date we have completed $394 million of the $500 million equity repurchase authorization.
We intend to complete the remaining $106 million on a timely basis taking into consideration market conditions and trading restrictions.
Turning to Slide 16 I wanted to conclude with our outlook for the second quarter.
We expect second quarter run rate core earnings to be in a similar range to the first quarter absent higher loss cost seasonality.
In the second quarter we expect higher cats with a budget of $84 million after tax which is $0.08 per diluted share higher than the first quarter which brings our total estimate to $0.70 to $0.75 per diluted share.
This estimate does not include DAC unlocks prior-year reserve development restructuring charges related to the Wealth Management division.
These restructuring charges which include retention awards and other expenses may be up to $20 million or about $0.04 per share.
Our businesses this quarter performed largely in line with our expectations with the exception of Group Benefits.
We currently expect full year earnings for Group Benefits to be essentially flat with 2011.
We expect pricing momentum in the P&amp;C businesses will expand margins in the second half of 2012.
Our earnings outlook for Individual Life and Retirement Plans businesses hasn't changed although we expect sales to be down as a result of our recent announcements.
Looking forward the ongoing businesses are executing under 2012 initiatives to grow and increase margins.
We look forward to sharing progress with you and we will provide more information about the P&amp;C Group Benefits and Mutual Fund operations in the quarters to come.
In addition we'll keep you updated on the other operational and strategic actions we may take within our Runoff division.
The strength and momentum in our ongoing businesses combined with the actions we are taking to be a more focused company will improve the earnings and the ROE profile of The Hartford over time.
At this point I'd like to turn the call over to Sabra to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Chris.
We'll now open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] In addition I just wanted to make one slight clarification of Chris' comments referring to the Individual Annuity business.
Since our announcement to exit the Individual Annuity business lapses have increased to approximately 20% in the U.S.
and 4% in Japan on an annualized basis.
Nicole can you please give the instructions for asking a question? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Mark Finkelstein with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Liam in your opening remarks you talked constructively about some alternatives on the VA side whether it's reinsurance or what have you.
Can you expand on those comments? And I guess what I'm interested in is how would you weigh the probability of success and how meaningful could one of these structures be in terms of capital release? Well Mark it's early and what I expressed was we have received interest from a variety of parties on different parts of the book and different parts of the block.
Our team is working hard evaluating those options and we do think some of them will materialize over time.
But I think it's also important as I said in my comments as well Mark that we'll balance the short-term economics with the ultimate goal of getting them off our books.
So it's early in the process.
I think we're constructively optimistic with the level of interest that's being presented the kind of thinking that our teammates are doing on it with the assistance of advisors in some cases that some of these transactions will materialize over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess my follow-up will just be on the Annuity business as well.
I guess we've seen markets go higher a little bit of interest rate volatility but I guess what is the opportunity to kind of restrike some of the options and reduce that cost at this stage? Is that a -- do we need markets to go higher from here or is there opportunity to kind of reduce that long-term cost at this stage? That's a great question.
And I'll make a comment and I know Chris would like to add something as well.
As Chris said in his remarks we are looking at the hedges.
We refer to them as a dynamic hedging program particularly in Japan.
So with the markets having appreciated as they have particularly equity markets and although it's backed up a little bit the yen weakening offset by lower interest rates I would tell you we evaluate our hedging levels on a daily basis led by our HIMCO teammates and our Chief Risk Officer Bob Rupp now in conjunction with our Runoff group.
So we look at it every single day.
And there may be opportunities because of strengthening market levels to reduce it.
And Chris other things you might say? I think it's exactly right.
Mark we're very sensitive on the economic cost side.
So particularly as markets reach 1 400 1 450 on the S&amp;P and beyond there are definitely opportunities to be much more cost-effective.
So I think you should take away that we're working hard to appropriately balance risk and economics like we have always said.
Your next question comes from the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I have a question on the VA business as well.
In the U.S.
in particular but in Japan as well your net amount at risk and the in-the-moneyness if I focus on the living benefit guarantees came down very nicely quarter-over-quarter.
My question is for the U.S.
can you give us a guesstimate on about how much higher do you think markets need to move for that level of in-the-moneyness to essentially be wiped out or moved to 0? John thanks for the question.
In the U.S.
if you look at sort of the cohorts of when we put a lot of business on the books '05 '06 '07 '08 we were approaching that level just by the nature of the disclosure that we made.
So to me when you get into the 1 400 1 500 levels 1 500 I think you'd be virtually at breakeven from the moneyness perspective.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the Japan side I assume -- is that going to be -- should we be looking more at that being influenced more by the yen than necessarily market levels? Yes I've always said about 50% of sort of just the risk comes from yen-dollar yen-euro.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then just a separate question is -- I'm interested in the move up that you mentioned in the annualized surrender rate on the U.S.
VA book.
Obviously one month doesn't necessarily make a trend.
But I was wondering if you have any granularity on the composition of that higher surrender rate.
Specifically what proportion of those lapses reflected contracts where the living benefit guarantee was in the money? Has that changed? I think historically you've mentioned around 40% of lapses were in the money.
So John it's Dave Levenson.
So for April as you know we've been --  we were running at 20% annualized lapse rate.
As we look at the weekly numbers that has been pretty consistent.
So we've seen it maybe moderate slightly.
I think over time we'll have a much better read on that.
As far as lapses in the money versus out of the money your 40% to 50% number is right on.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Kligerman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> First question just around the group guidance had been for a benefits ratio of around 77% 80%.
Of course you came in at about 83% and I know the pricing takes time.
So what should we be thinking about in terms of the guidance going forward? And then the second question would be around the -- with all the restructuring and changes going on some people have suggested that maybe it might not be a bad idea to IPO part of the P&amp;C business maybe a minority interest 15% 20%.
Is that something you've thought about? Would that make some sense? Andrew let me -- this is Doug.
Let me take the second part of the question on the Group Benefit.
Number one there are macroeconomic headwinds across that business.
But we are encouraged and I think there are some reasons for optimism across our Group Benefit business as we work our way through Q1 into Q2.
Clearly our incidence level look like they're flattening.
We look like we on the long-term side have some flattening signals over the past 5 quarters.
In the short-term area it looks like we've got some improvement on our incident trends so that's a positive.
Clearly as we've talked in the past our terminations are down and running lower than our historical run rate.
We are working all the levers available to us.
We have additional disclosure for the quarter in there.
We achieved 4 points of rate increase which is why we were slightly down in retention but I think that's a good trade.
And our overall price improvement in the book for the first quarter was about 10%.
So I feel like we're making significant strides toward improving our margin and overall I'm also encouraged by what I would say is an improving pricing climate in disability.
Hey Andrew it's Chris.
I think you...
Research Division</strong> One quick second Doug though.
So therefore you think you could achieve guidance for the year or the original guidance? I think Chris gave you the adjusted guidance.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry I missed that.
Yes Andrew what I was trying to be clear in my prepared remarks is that we really see group now just basically flat to prior year.
When we were with you in December we saw group hopefully improving earnings 15% 16% 17% high teens.
I would consider that business now just sort of flat with prior year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Andrew this is Liam.
And as far as your question about possible other structures for the company I'll just remind you what I've said consistently that management and the board since the middle of last year looked comprehensively at virtually every alternative.
We've chosen a path and that's the path we're going to execute against.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Gallagher with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Liam you had talked about the sales process going well.
Can you just give a little bit of color on that? Because in my mind the greatest risk here is while there may be buyers lined up if the bid is 50% of book value or some very low amount then it may be a decision of deciding not to sell some of the properties that you've put up for sale.
But your comments certainly seem to indicate that you're comfortable with the way things are progressing.
So maybe you can talk a little bit about just the process and whether you've gotten any price indications yet and whether you're comfortable with those.
Well Tom we are confident that we will sell the businesses at an appropriate value.
You can appreciate where we are in the process with just the process itself that -- I'm not going to get into too much detail.
But I think based on the volume of parties that are interested in each of the 3 properties both objective and subjective feedback that we're getting from the market we feel pretty confident we're going to sell these businesses and have definitive agreements certainly in the latter part of this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just one follow-up.
I guess it would be for Chris.
When you guys talk about potentially freeing up capital from the closed block should we think about it being a normal process where you first need to sell these businesses and then the proceeds would give you more flexibility to consider solutions? So in other words should we think about the freeing up of capital being a 2013 or 2014 event? Can you help a little bit about tying those 2 things together? Well Tom let me just make a high level comment first and I know Chris is anxious to give his own perspective as well.
When you look at the actions that we're taking first of all we will not be selling new life products which in general have been capital-consumptive; secondly selling the businesses which will create proceeds and subsequently some capital release as well from those businesses.
The natural lapsing -- and if the elevated lapse rates continues so the better.
And then any actions that were effective in our runoff business -- this is a company that over the next couple of years should liberate capital.
We're more confident in the strength of our balance sheet and to be more specific than that now would be premature obviously.
There's timing market levels et cetera but I think we position the company as we execute effectively and we're focused on -- laser-focused on execution on the things that we've described.
And over time we will liberate capital and we'll have a variety of choices as what to do with it.
And of course our primary guiding principle will be to the benefit of the shareholder.
Chris? I think that you're right on.
There's nothing other to add Tom other than again if you look at sort of the sequence of events and timing in different constituencies that we want to bring along with our plans whether it be regulators agencies and how we would use I'll call it the incremental value that we monetize and the capital that's backing those blocks we know how to work with those constituencies to bring them along to make sure everyone understands what they're trying to accomplish and what we're going to do with that deployable capital at the time.
But as Liam said we'd rather not just speculate right now on size timing and amounts just given that there's a lot of variables outside of our control right now.
But I think my view is we're going to have a good competitive option on these properties.
Certainly Tom we have certainty and clarity about our direction.
And along with creating superior financial performance a big part of generating superior shareholder performance will be over the next periods of time and we have very specific actions.
We've articulated them I think very clearly.
We need to execute on them.
We understand very clearly that over time those activities will result in capital that we'll be able to deploy in as Chris says appropriately in consultation with our normal constituents which I think we've demonstrated our ability to effectively do in the steps we've taken in the past couple of years.
I think this is a company that will definitely do that and I think we've made the decisions to position us to do that.
Your next question comes from the line of John Hall with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions around capital.
And not to be repetitive here on the VA book of business I think initially when you talked about it potentially being put into Runoff you didn't see capital being freed up.
Lapse rates are substantially higher now.
Does that change the view there about the speed of capital return from that book? Chris will give you an answer on that John.
John directionally yes.
I think we view net lapses as positive from a capital side.
As long as they're balanced and steady net-net it's positive because we just have to hold less capital against the liabilities particularly in stress scenarios.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then my second question has to do with the Mutual Fund operation and I guess where it's held within the enterprise.
Being owned by a life insurance company I guess constrains your ability to use the cash that it generates.
In everything that you're doing about moving things around and the like are you considering trying to transfer the ownership out from the life company to a holding company that wouldn't be insurance regulatory-constrained? John I think that one of our work streams that we have is just the we called it legal entity simplification process and that's part of it.
But I wouldn't view it necessarily as a constraint.
It's more potentially simplifying sort of a holding company structure.
But just because Mutual Funds is owned by a life group right now I wouldn't have you necessarily think of any extraordinary restraints or conditions on that entity its use of proceeds and cash flows that we would generate from it.
But we are looking at just the overall simplification of the legal entity structure.
Yes I agree with John with everything Chris said particularly as it relates to Mutual Fund business.
But I'd reiterate we will simplify the legal structure of the company and that body of work is underway.
If it has such a benefit so be it.
But we're really trying to simplify the company and its legal structure.
Our next question comes from the line of Vincent DeAugustino with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick questions.
On commercial auto it looked like there was some adverse development that ran a little bit higher than recent quarter's trends.
I was just curious of your thoughts on I guess what you're seeing is driving that and then specifically if there's any particular accident years that that's flowing from? Vincent this is Doug.
I would characterize the $12 million as rather insignificant against the entire period.
A little bit of pressure with the last couple accident years '09 '10 '11 primarily '11 and primarily in Small Commercial.
So there's nothing there that I think is systemic.
I think we're all over the issues.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a real quick follow-up.
Since reporting your strategic restructuring plans were there any segments that are maybe facing incremental headwinds as a result of the changes you're putting in place? Or is everything outside of the units potentially up for sale going as planned and no kind of cross headwinds there? No not at all.
I think as our results indicated Vincent our Property &amp; Casualty businesses are really performing very well top line growth in Small Commercial and in Consumer and after margin improvement in Consumer.
I think Doug and his team  as you saw in the pricing actions are making the right trade-off between getting price and the persistency rate there.
Obviously like everyone else in the industry there are some challenges in Group Benefits but that has nothing to do with our announcements.
And finally I think Mutual Funds we could not be more excited about the prospects of that.
And the feedback we get from the distributors is they're pretty excited about it too.
The unique combination of The Hartford and the Wellington's sub-advisory cross-equity and fixed income is really really creating I think a very positive reception.
So I'd say if anything other than just the systemic and macroeconomic issues around Group Benefits the go-forward businesses are firing at all cylinders.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Schuman with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> A kind of a mundane question but a necessary one I guess.
With all of the unusual levels of corporate activity it seemed like corporate expenses were a little higher this quarter.
Can you give us a sense of kind of where those expenses might go directionally from here? Down.
Jeff it's Chris.
I would tend to think in terms of the corporate level of expenses this quarter is maybe $15 million to $20 million higher than sort of the normalized run rate.
We had some just accrual adjustments coming out of year end and a little bit of restructuring charges.
I think going forward we plan to break that out as clear as possible as far as restructuring expenses whether it be severance benefits whether it be stay bonuses things along those lines.
But I think from a model perspective you ought to think this quarter is $15 million to $20 million higher than a normal run rate.
Yes and Jeff my one-word answer was meant to convey this management team's determination to run this company in I think a financial services environment that requires it as efficiently as possible.
As I said in my remarks and I want our investors to understand it about The Hartford management team there was $150 million of efficiencies realized last year $30 million in the first quarter.
We're going to stay focused on the efficiency and process improvement actions through the balance of 2012.
Obviously we will get the expenses as we sell the businesses.
All expenses whether they're solid or dotted line are going to come out.
And then we think we have a very unique opportunity truly a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for the go-forward business to really reinvent how we do things at The Hartford and better and more efficient.
So you'll hear more consistently more from us on our process improvement and efficiency.
And I think we've demonstrated our ability to do that on the old construct of The Hartford.
We'll continue that and even with greater urgency because we do believe we have a unique opportunity here.
Thank you.
Thank you all for joining us this morning.
We know it's a busy morning with a lot of conference calls being held.
So as always we appreciate your interest and support of The Hartford.
And for any follow-up questions we're available today and tomorrow to take them.
Thanks.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Darlene and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Hartford Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Ms.
Sabra Purtill you may begin your conference.
Thank you Darlene.
Good morning and welcome to The Hartford Second Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Our speakers today are Liam McGee The Hartford's Chairman President and CEO; and Chris Swift our CFO.
Other members of our senior management team here today include Doug Elliot Brion Johnson Alan Kreczko Andy Napoli and Bob Rupp.
As detailed on Page 2 of the presentation statements concerning The Hartford's future results or actions should be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual results may be materially different.
We do not assume any obligation to update the forward-looking statements.
You should consider the important risks and uncertainties that may cause The Hartford's actual results to differ including those discussed in our press release our second quarter 10-Q 2011 10-K and other filings we make with the SEC.
Please note that our presentation includes financial measures that are not derived from Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or GAAP.
Definitions and reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure are provided in our financial supplement press release 10-Q and on our website.
I'll now turn the call over to Liam.
Thank you Sabra.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
Before I get started I want to welcome Brion Johnson our recently appointed Chief Investment Officer.
Prior to his appointment in May Brion was Head of Strategy and Finance for our Investment Management subsidiary.
This was a productive quarter at The Hartford.
We generated good underlying financial results marked by improved performance in our go-forward businesses.
We successfully refinanced the Allianz debt and completed the $500 million equity repurchase program.
We also made progress in executing our new strategy particularly in the sales processes for the Life businesses which are proceeding as expected.
Let me start with an overview of our quarterly financial results.
Core earnings were $119 million or $0.23 per diluted share including high catastrophe losses although less than last year's; restructuring expenses; and an unfavorable DAC unlock.
Adjusting for these items core earnings were $0.85 per diluted share ahead of our May outlook.
Importantly earnings were marked by favorable momentum in our go-forward businesses.
Core earnings in P&amp;C Commercial increased 67% from the prior year reflecting lower catastrophe losses and the favorable impact of the pricing and underwriting actions launched last year particularly in workers' compensation.
We saw adverse loss trends in the comp line early and immediately began taking action.
Workers' compensation trends are generally performing as we expected with only a slight adjustment this quarter.
Our actions are now yielding results and we're optimistic that we've turned the corner.
We're getting price increases in all lines with a 7% renewal price increase in standard commercial.
In Middle Market our renewal pricing was up 16% in workers' compensation and we expect to continue to improve margins and product mix.
Retention remains strong for the accounts we want to keep although down a bit in total as we shed more of our unprofitable accounts.
In Group Benefits core earnings were up from first quarter.
We had favorable Life and AD&amp;D results as well as a seasonal improvement in long-term disability trends.
The Hartford was among the first to recognize adverse trends in incidence and terminations which we addressed by taking pricing actions beginning in early 2011 and continuing through today.
It will take more time and work to get this business back to historical profitability but I'm encouraged with our progress.
In Consumer Markets the quarter's financial results were adversely affected by heavy cat activity.
We remain focused on profitable growth and improving both margins and ROEs.
Retention continues to improve in both homeowners and auto even as we continue to take rate in each.
New business trends are also good up 17% over the prior year.
We remain excited about the prospects for our Mutual Funds business and our expanded relationship with Wellington.
During the quarter we completed the transition of fixed income funds to Wellington and our marketing initiatives will expand in the second half.
We're confident that our Mutual Fund assets will grow given Wellington's leading capabilities in managing both equities and fixed income.
This is particularly important given the continued flows out of equity and into fixed income funds industry-wide.
We're on track for our targeted expense reductions and as Chris will present in more detail have increased our 2013 goals.
In addition in order to remain efficient in our go-forward businesses we will eliminate all expenses for the Life businesses that are being sold.
Now let me review this quarter's progress and our strategy announced in March to focus on P&amp;C Group Benefits and Mutual Funds.
As you recall these businesses satisfied all 3 of our requirements: first that they have competitive market positions on which we could invest for future profitable growth; next that they generate not consume capital; and finally that they will lead to lower market sensitivity for the company.
We also announced that we shut down our U.S.
VA business and put it into runoff and that we would sell the Individual Life Retirement Plans and Woodbury Financial Services our retail broker-dealer.
Since that announcement we've made solid progress in achieving our sharper focus strategy.
First the sales processes are proceeding as planned.
On Tuesday we announced the signing of a definitive agreement to sell Woodbury Financial Services for proceeds totaling $115 million subject to closing adjustments.
The sales processes for the remaining Life businesses continue and we look forward to updating you when definitive sales agreements have been reached.
Second we have effectively shut down our U.S.
variable annuities business.
We signed a definitive agreement to sell the new VA business infrastructure which we expect to close by year-end.
The sale provides a smooth transition to more than 100 of our teammates in the U.S.
Individual Annuity organization.
We expect to reduce expenses by $100 million before tax in 2013 as a result.
Third on the legacy annuity block we announced the appointment of Beth Bombara as President of the Life runoff business.
Beth has a deep knowledge of The Hartford and the annuity business and has a track record of significant accomplishments.
She and her team will accelerate the good work already underway to reduce the size and risk of our legacy annuity liabilities as well as initiatives that could isolate or separate them from the ongoing businesses and over time free up capital.
Given current economic conditions this process will take time but we will be prepared to take advantage of opportunities to reduce or sell blocks of business.
We will balance economics and any possible consumption of statutory surplus against the potentially positive impact on shareholder value of reducing the block.
We are confident that we will achieve our goals.
In the meantime the VA hedging programs provide protection to policyholders and shareholders from adverse economic environments.
I know that there's a lot of interest in our plans for the use of the proceeds from the sales of the Life businesses.
As we discussed in March we will maintain capital sufficient for adverse economic environments and supportive of our go-forward businesses and their current ratings.
We will work with all of our constituencies including regulators and rating agencies to develop a final plan that supports both our business and capital management goals.
Now while our plans are not final we expect to repay a minimum of $320 million of debt maturing in July 2013 in order to maintain leverage and interest coverage ratios at levels that support current ratings and also to pursue accretive actions for shareholders which currently would be common stock repurchases or future potential transactions that would reduce the size and risk of the annuity book.
We will update you in early 2013 as our plans and the business sales are finalized.
So to conclude the second quarter was successful at The Hartford on many fronts.
We had good core earnings and continued momentum in our go-forward businesses.
We completed the $500 million stock buyback repurchased the Allianz debt and made more progress on our expense initiatives.
We announced an agreement to sell Woodbury Financial Services on Tuesday and the sales processes of the Individual Life and Retirement Plans businesses are proceeding as planned.
We are diligently exploring opportunities to reduce the size and risk of our annuity exposures isolate or separate them from the ongoing businesses and over time free up associated capital.
We know we have a lot more work to do but we are confident that we're on the right path.
And I look forward to sharing our progress with you next quarter and beyond.
I'll now turn the microphone over to Chris who will cover our financial results in more detail.
Chris? Thank you Liam.
Good morning everyone.
My comments this morning will cover 3 areas: a review of second quarter results; an update of our expense targets; and our third quarter current outlook.
Second quarter core earnings were $119 million or $0.23 per diluted share representing a significant improvement over prior year.
These results include 4 items I want to highlight.
First catastrophe losses were $189 million after tax which is $105 million higher than our original outlook.
Second we had unfavorable prior year loss reserve development of $32 million.
Both of these items are in line with our July 16 announcement.
Third our results included unfavorable DAC unlock of $127 million largely related to our quarterly adjustment for market performance on our runoff annuity block.
Finally we also incurred $31 million of restructuring charges primarily for severance and retention associated with the sales of Individual Life Retirement Plans and Woodbury Financial services as well as the shutdown of U.S.
VA new business.
Core earnings this quarter excluding these 4 items were $414 million or $0.85 per diluted share based on a 485 million share count.
This is higher than May's outlook of $0.70 to $0.75 per share primarily driven by better-than-anticipated group benefit results.
In this low interest rate environment we remain focused on pricing actions as well as strategies to maintain investment yields.
The investment portfolio yield was stable this quarter at 4.3% excluding limited partnerships and other alternative investments which had a 10% annualized return in the quarter.
Consistent with last quarter we modestly extended the duration of the portfolio and slightly increased our holdings in higher-yielding asset classes.
Impairments and changes to the mortgage loan loss reserve rose this quarter to $60 million after tax and DAC largely due to losses on some recently downgraded financial institution preferred equity securities.
Overall fundamental credit performance remained strong with no material changes in default experience or expectations.
Turning to Slide 6.
Second quarter book -- 2012 book value per diluted share was $45.59 an increase of 14% over last year.
Book value benefited from declining interest rates which increased the unrealized gains in our fixed investments.
Excluding AOCI book value per diluted share rose by 2% to $40.91.
Book value growth over the last year was muted by higher catastrophes as well as this quarter's $587 million charge for repaying the Allianz debt.
This was a major step in restructuring the balance sheet and enhancing our financial flexibility.
We also repurchased $106 million of common stock this quarter to complete our $500 million share repurchase plan.
This is also reflected in our book value.
Turning to segment results.
Slide 7 shows the summary results for P&amp;C Commercial.
Core earnings were $160 million a 67% increase from the prior year due to better catastrophe results.
Results also include a $12 million after tax of net unfavorable prior year loss reserve development across multiple lines.
This included about $28 million after tax of adverse development on our workers' compensation book largely for accident year 2011.
The combined ratio x cat x prior year was 94.5% up slightly over prior year's 93.1% which did not include the change in our 2011 accident year loss picks we made in the third and fourth quarter last year.
We continue to expect the P&amp;C Commercial combined ratio x cats x prior year to improve based on achieved pricing and outlook for future rate increases.
As Liam mentioned we continue to see strong price increases in P&amp;C Commercial.
We achieved renewal rate price increases of 7% in standard commercial equal to the first quarter.
Workers' compensation is a key driver with a 16% rate increase in Middle Market.
Consistent with first quarter all other commercial lines had rate increases as well with 6% in Small Commercial 8% in Middle Market property 6% in Middle Market general liability.
Our pricing actions have impacted retention slightly.
Middle Market retention was lower at 73% in the quarter which is a top line trade-off we are making to improve margins.
Small Commercial retention remained strong at 82% slightly down from last year and last quarter.
We will continue to be disciplined in our pricing initiatives which are focused on achieving better margins on underperforming accounts while maintaining margins and retention on our best performing accounts.
Shifting to Group Benefits.
Core earnings of $34 million were a significant improvement well above first quarter levels and up $4 million from last year's quarter.
The loss ratio was 78.6% an improvement over the first quarter which tends to be seasonally high but still up from the 78% in prior year.
As a result of our rate actions and the very competitive marketplace premiums declined 6%.
This reflects the impact of pricing action on both new business and renewal trends occurring over the last 18 months.
We had favorable Life and AD&amp;D experience so I wouldn't annualize this quarter for the second half of the year.
We still expect Group Benefit results this year to be flat with the $86 million earned in 2011.
Nevertheless we are encouraged by our results in this line and we are confident that our initiatives over the past 18 months will get us to where we need to be.
Turning to Slide 9.
Consumer Markets had core losses of $48 million due to catastrophe losses above budget although below last year's level.
Andy Napoli and his team are managing the book for profitable growth by balancing pricing retention new business levels and like the entire organization expense efficiency.
Retention has improved over the past several quarters and was up 2 points in both lines compared to a year ago.
Net written premiums declined 2% partially due to lower than historic retention which was partially offset by strong new business production.
Auto new business was up 13% for the quarter and 21% year-to-date.
AARP Agency is a strong growth source.
First half 2012 written premiums in AARP Agency almost doubled to $59 million from the prior year period.
The second quarter combined ratio x cat and prior year development was 91.3% essentially flat with last year's 91.2%.
Homeowners in particular remains negatively impacted by elevated weather events.
We remain focused on improving profitability with renewal written price increases in the quarter of 6% in homeowners and 4% in auto.
Auto physical damage loss severity remains a challenge and we are watching frequency carefully.
Auto liability frequency ticked up a little bit in the first quarter but that trend did not continue in the second quarter.
We are monitoring auto loss cost trends closely and we'll adjust our pricing as necessary.
But in general we are comfortable with our current balance of pricing retention and new business.
Homeowners on the other hand needs more rate industry-wide principally because of cats and non-cat weather.
We are encouraged by our results in Consumer Markets as we continue to focus on opportunities for profitable growth and improving margins and ROEs.
Mutual fund results are summarized on Slide 10.
All fixed income funds have now transitioned to Wellington and expanded marketing initiatives are planned for the second half of the year.
However near-term earnings have been impacted by continued negative flows from equity funds an industry-wide trend.
Mutual fund core earnings this quarter were $18 million down $9 million from prior year due to a 14% decline in assets under management compared to a year ago.
Core earnings also included expenses for moving the business to Pennsylvania and expanding distribution teams.
The results of our combined Life and P&amp;C runoff division are on Slide 11.
Core earnings x DAC unlock were $148 million.
This includes $162 million from Life and a loss of $14 million in P&amp;C which includes the asbestos environmental charge.
Excluding the A&amp;E charge and DAC unlock core earnings were in line with our expectations.
I know there is interest in our annuity surrender experience since our March 21 announcement.
Surrender activity for the U.S.
block averaged an annualized rate of 17.5% for the quarter.
The surrender rate increased to 20% in April immediately following the announcement but has since trended down to last year's level of 14% in July.
Some of the decline is probably due to the decline in market levels as we normally see lower surrenders in down markets.
These surrender rates include both full and partial surrenders which are now disclosed separately in the IFS.
Full surrenders for the second quarter were 13% annualized up from 10% in the first quarter.
Partial withdrawals were flat at 4.8%.
While either type of activity helps reduce the size of the annuity liabilities full surrenders completely eliminate the risk of those contracts.
It's worth noting that this 2Q in-the-moneyness surrenders have been running about 35% of the total roughly consistent with the overall in-the-moneyness of the U.S.
VA GMWB block.
Slide 12 provides a summary of VA hedging results for the quarter.
Our VA hedging programs primarily focus on economics.
As you know there are differences between GAAP stat and economic results.
During the quarter the net statutory impact of our VA liabilities and hedges was a negative $228 million before tax which excludes fees and other impacts to surplus.
We ended the quarter with nearly $4 billion of VA statutory reserves in our U.S.
and Japan subsidiaries.
Slide 13 is our surplus roll-forward.
Total U.S.
statutory surplus increased approximately $200 million in the second quarter.
This is after $200 million of dividends from the P&amp;C operations to the holding company.
P&amp;C had statutory operating earnings of about $100 million.
VA statutory impacts were $100 million positive.
Other items primarily deferred taxes were almost $200 million favorable.
In total U.S.
statutory Life surplus increased to $7.7 billion from $7.5 billion while P&amp;C surplus was essentially flat at $7.7 billion.
As you can see on Slide 14 capital resources remained strong at $18 million after -- excuse me $18 billion after completing the share repurchase program and the Allianz refinancing.
Holding company cash and short-term investments totaled $1.3 billion down slightly from March due principally to the settlement of the warrant repurchase and the $106 million of share repurchases in the quarter.
Slide 15 set forth our updated expense target reductions.
In December of last year we laid out a $450 million expense reduction target for year-end 2013.
We have increased that by a net $30 million to $480 million.
This includes a $70 million reduction reflecting the portion of the original target that was attributable to the Life businesses being sold.
It also reflects $100 million of expense reductions arising from the shutdown of U.S.
VA business.
Additionally in the quarter we incurred about $31 million of after tax restructuring and other expenses associated with the sales process including retention expenses and advisory fees.
We expect to incur approximately $40 million after tax in additional restructuring charges related to these activities in the second half of 2012.
Before taking questions I want to briefly provide you with our outlook for the third quarter.
We expect third quarter core earnings to be in the range of $0.75 to $0.80 per diluted share including catastrophe losses of approximately $75 million after tax.
Our third quarter estimate does not include the following items: first it does not include prior year P&amp;C loss reserve development; second the outlook does not reflect any DAC unlocks including those related to our annual third quarter assumption study; finally it does not include any expenses or charges relating to the sales processes for the Life businesses and it excludes $25 million of restructuring and other expenses we expect to occur in the quarter.
To conclude I am pleased with our business results this quarter and for the year-to-date.
With the exception of catastrophes our businesses this quarter performed largely in line with our expectations with a slight positive from Group Benefits.
Our investment results remained strong despite the challenging low interest rate environment.
Looking forward we will continue to maintain our pricing discipline in the P&amp;C businesses and we expect our initiatives in Group Benefits and Mutual Funds to help improve profitability in 2013 and beyond.
At this point I'd like to turn the call back over to Sabra to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Chris.
We have time for about 30 minutes of Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Darlene could you please start the Q&amp;A process? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> On the proceeds from the sale of the businesses currently in runoff Liam you talked initially about using buybacks or reducing the size of the annuity book giving us an update there in early 2013.
Does that mean the sale process might be taking a little longer than you thought? And can you frame it out just a bit more in terms of how you're thinking about deploying those proceeds? Jay first of all the sales process is proceeding as we expected.
As you recall Jay when we announced our decision to sell the 3 businesses in March we also indicated we were prepared.
We have done all of our actuarial studies and so the offering memorandum were in the marketplace approximately a month after our announcement.
I would say that as I said earlier the process is proceeding as we expected.
These are attractive businesses and it's been a competitive process.
In terms of the capital plan we want to get the agreement signed.
As I mentioned in my remarks work with our constituencies.
And I think the convergence of those things says that we'll give you a final capital plan in early 2013.
So I would describe everything proceeding as we had expected when we announced things in March.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for the third quarter DAC study can you -- is there any sort of boundaries you can give us on that in terms of what we should be thinking about in terms of potential charges going into that study? Chris? Jay it's Chris.
I wouldn't say there's anything other than normal I'll call it expense mortality interest rate-type assumptions policyholder behaviors.
So I wouldn't say there's any boundaries.
It's just our normal annual update that we'll go through.
Research Division</strong> Year-to-date how are things tracking along with current assumptions? I'd say they're tracking very well.
Your next question comes from the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> So just as a quick follow-up on the early 2013 Chris or Liam it sounds like that's really just around giving us some clarity on the deployment of proceeds.
So nothing really changing in terms of your expectation for timing of actual sale announcements.
Is that correct? That's an accurate statement John so let me reiterate.
I want to be crystal clear on this point.
The sales processes are proceeding as we expected.
These -- we're pleased to have announced the Woodbury transaction on Tuesday.
The Life and Retirement Plan process is proceeding.
It -- these are attractive businesses and it's been a competitive process.
The -- we want to present to you and investors an updated more final capital plan which will include prospective capital management actions.
So I think we're right on schedule.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
So then a question -- maybe 2 quick ones for Chris.
A question on interest rate risk.
Just on the conference call before this one with the folks at Met they sort of gave us an update of looking at instead of a 2% 10-year looking at a 1.4%- or 1.5%-type 10-year environment.
Can you give us a sense too for what that incremental 50 or 60 basis points lower-type rate environment would do to that earnings sensitivity you had provided some -- a few quarters ago? Yes happy to John.
And low interest rates as you know just are a headwind for everyone in financial services.
But our specific either way I think about it from a momentum side the assets that we have on the books so the maturing cash flows and the new cash flows if we look at the impacts in '13 and '14 I'd call it roughly the $25 million to $30 million in '13.
And you can roughly double it from there in '14 if rates stay low at today's level.
Research Division</strong> So that's it? That's the incremental above the original guidance? Yes it is the incremental impact to sort of the momentum that we will give up in the run rate earnings.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just a last real quick one.
On Slide 12 in your conference call presentation just can you give some granularity on the VA? I guess the hedge assets didn't quite keep up with the liability in the quarter.
Can you give us just a little bit of granularity on what drove that? Was that equity markets rates currency? What...
Again John I think the attribution we could work with you off-line if that's really important to you.
But I think the big thing is just generally keep in mind we're not 100% hedged on the economics.
So there's always going to be a basis difference.
You're always going to have I'll call it a Japanese impact because most of our Japanese hedges are in the U.S.
legal entity.
So I would describe it mostly basis difference from my perspective.
Your next question comes from the line of Randy Binner with FBR.
Research Division</strong> So I kind of wanted to try and I guess follow up on Jay's question and talk a little bit about your comments on kind of reducing the size of the VA book isolating and separating it.
I appreciate that this is not what's in focus now.
Right now you're focused on selling the 3 other properties.
But I mean would it be possible to kind of at least frame out at a high level what that might look like? Meaning could we expect to lose the DAC that's associated with the VA business? I mean that's an assumption we're making with the potential Life divestiture.
And kind of feel confident that there's some material on a capital that could get out of the VA book if you are able to isolate or separate some of that risk from Hartford.
Well Randy I'm going to ask Chris to give a little more detail on that but let me just be very clear in the comments that I made.
Our -- under Beth's leadership our goal is to reduce both the liabilities and the risk of the annuity book.
And if opportunities present themselves to potentially isolate or separate it.
In terms of the -- and we do think over time there will be a capital that will be freed up as a result of that.
In terms of your question on DAC and everything I'm going to turn to Chris.
Randy a couple of points.
One I agree with Liam.
And I think what we've been trying to communicate clearly is that as the block runs off capital will be freed up not necessarily literally probably generally just take more time.
And of the $7.6 billion of I'll call it statutory surplus we have in all the legal entities.
I mean that's our -- our objective is to maximize that value and trading off maybe potential transactions or other types of things.
So we're focused in on statutory.
Your point on DAC obviously DAC is a GAAP concept so that doesn't affect statutory results.
And a lot of our DAC assumptions as I said are updated quarterly and we still make money on these blocks of business.
I mean they're still earning fees so we are still following our historic I'll call it U.S.
GAAP accounting conventions is how we amortize DAC in.
Research Division</strong> Well yes I mean I guess just a follow-up on DAC.
I appreciate that they're currently there but if there was a transaction to separate -- I mean the stock is trading like $14 below book value.
So I think it's -- it would be helpful to just kind of understand that if there was a separation what would happen to that intangible that's in the GAAP book value? Yes I hate to speculate on types of separations what would be involved and things like that.
But any I'll call it separation transferred to a third party of any liabilities we'd have to account for that in proceeds and have a gain or loss that's reflective of total proceeds.
So in a transaction setting correct.
Research Division</strong> One more related follow-up and this is kind of a simple maybe it's a dumb question.
But I mean -- so the surrenders have been elevated on balance since the runoff decision being made.
Is that positive for freeing up capital? Meaning the faster the VA block runs off that would lead us to freeing up capital sooner? Yes.
What we're trying to say is that all surrenders all reductions of account value are beneficial over the long-term and that's our goal.
And just to give you the perspective surrenders in '11 ran about 14% '10 they were about 11%.
So they're going to settle in somewhere between 14% and 16% in my judgment going forward.
And the block will run off and we'll look for opportunistic transactions to help accelerate that runoff if they are in a marketplace that we find accretive to shareholders.
That's the real strategy simply Randy.
Randy we are laser-focused on all possible ways to accelerate reducing the liabilities and the risk.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Meredith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions here for you.
Just first one on the commercial Middle Market's retention I'm curious why the sudden drop-off this quarter? You've been pushing the rate in that business for a while now.
Was something different that happened this quarter? Where you pushing a little bit harder on terms and conditions or something? Brian this is Doug.
I don't think the marketplace was really any different in the second quarter.
We are continuing our march to improve our margins.
As you know workers' comp is a priority for us.
And so as I reflect on our chief pricing increases and the trade-off on retention I'm very satisfied with what happened in the second quarter and expect to see more of that moving ahead.
Research Division</strong> Does it say you expect the retention to stay pretty low for Middle Markets here for a couple more quarters? I at least think third quarter.
We're very pleased with the pricing increases and as you can tell our margins are improving.
So we feel good about that progress.
And at the moment the trade-off between rate and retention I think is a good one for us and we're going to stay right there.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just a quick one over on the personal lines on consumer side.
AARP written premium still declining here.
Are we getting close to a point where you're comfortable from a profitability standpoint that we're going to start to see that start to pick up here going forward? Brian Andy Napoli here.
Yes good question.
I would say over the past year we've had a really nice strong rebound in new business production in AARP Direct and Agency you can see that in the numbers.
That's probably at a level that relative to total premium where we're comfortable with a new business production at this point at about 12% to 13%.
So then you shift the conversation to retention.
We've had 2 points improvement in retention on a year-over-year basis.
We've got a little bit more ground to make up there.
I see growth to the division being flat in 2013.
And as I think about the factors that could influence that we're experiencing a rate need relative to -- or because of the increase in physical damage severity that I think is pervasive across the industry and we'll have to sort of dynamically manage how we price that into our business going forward.
And that's something we're going to pay very close attention to.
Your next question comes from the line of Vincent DeAugustino with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The press release mentioned 7% renewal price increases for Middle Market and I think it also mentioned overall increases of 10% for the same segment.
And I'm -- if I'm thinking about that correctly I should be able to attribute the GAAP to even stronger new business pricing.
Am I thinking about that right? No.
Let me adjust your thinking just a bit.
First point I'd make is although it looks relatively flat quarter-over-quarter 7% versus 7% actually there was an increase in the second quarter.
We rounded up the first quarter.
It was 6.6% and the second quarter came in roughly at 7.4%.
So there is positive movement in the second quarter that we feel good about and actually that positive movement really runs across our lines including comp which we spoke to.
The new business environment really sits outside of the pricing disclosures that we've shared with you.
So I would separate those 2.
And we can talk about them separately but they're really 2 different topics.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So -- sorry I'm just a little confused in the difference between the 7% and the 10%.
I think the 10% was a Middle Market pricing and the 7% was the combination of our Small and our Middle together.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay I see.
I'm sorry about that.
And then also you mentioned earlier in your comments that mutual fund marketing initiative is going to ramp up in the second half.
Would you be able to say what the incremental expense would be there or would this be de minimis? I generally think it's rounding.
I mean it's people more than anything.
So it will be -- the compensation will be tied to sales and things like that but it's pretty de minimis Vince.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Finkelstein with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> I guess sort of a follow-up on the prior question.
I guess how would you characterize the rate environment? I think you just said that 6.6% in the first quarter 7.4%.
Do you see this stabilizing? Do you see further momentum as you look at kind of the June and July results or any slippage? We see a relatively stable environment.
I would look at the last 60 days and think about May and June and be encouraged by the improving signals.
But overall we see a relatively stable environment that we expect will move into the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when you think about I guess Small Commercial in particular how would you characterize the rate increases relative to your assumptions around lost cost trend? At or slightly exceeding would be my answer in the Small Commercial space.
It's a very strong line for us.
You can see our returns as noted in the supplement.
And our mid single-digit pricing increases are essentially right on our trends.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess can you just talk a little bit about -- the overall development was in ongoing businesses was largely flattish I mean some favorable coming out of the cats.
But the one notable was I think the $43 million of adverse development in workers' comp.
Can you just talk about that and whether there's any changes in how you're looking at I guess the reserve levels based on the trend that you saw this quarter? Sure.
Our view of the comp book really hasn't changed in the last 90 days.
We did some tuning in the second quarter.
I'd characterize out of the $43 million roughly $25 million of that was in accident year 2011.
We're watching carefully those trends.
We had some medical losses that moved to med and indemnity but nothing that I would say would be significant or out of pattern.
As you know we call our reserves straight up as we see them in the quarter.
So we did do some adjusting in the quarter but I feel like we're all over the issues we're watching them carefully.
As we've mentioned in the past we feel positive about the improving claim incidence trends inside our book of business.
So we're very bullish about an improving go-forward comp book and the fact that we've got our arms around our prior books.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just one question on Group Benefits.
I mean the results were more favorable I think than most have expected including myself but it sounds like it was largely group Life and AD&amp;D.
And I'm trying to understand how much of that is just good luck versus some core margin expansion particularly on the disability side that we should be thinking about as trendable.
This is Doug again.
As Chris mentioned our run rate for the year still looks like it's going to be flat with 2011 which is in that 80 85 range.
As I think about the quarter clearly it was $5 million to $6 million of favorable Life and AD&amp;D experience and there's some good things on the expense side that were kind of one-timers.
So when I look at the quarter and think about Chris' comment about overall 2012 performance I think we're right on pretty solid run rate.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess one additional question just on the VA runoff book.
We're starting I guess to see some competitors that are trying to accelerate the runoff offer lump-sum payments.
Can you comment if this is something you're exploring the regulatory and capital considerations for doing so? And then lastly just any comments on appetite from external participants in the VA market.
I'll take the first one and I'll leave the second one for Chris.
We're well aware of what a couple of players are doing to your point in product.
I would say Chris we are exploring under Beth's leadership every possible area for accelerating the runoff including that concept.
As you know very well guarantees differ from insurance company to insurance company and there is no evidence yet that actually consumers will make that trade.
But notwithstanding all that we are aggressively looking at that.
But that is one of many work streams that we're considering with great urgency and diligence because we're determined to reduce the book as quickly as we can.
Chris any comments you'd make on Chris' second question? Yes I think your question really was an appetite in VA transactions.
I would say right now it's very early Chris.
I don't think there is much appetite at all in the marketplace right now so we would continue to explore continue to have discussions and thinking.
But as far as real appetite it's just not there yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So should we take that sort of a sense the decision was reached in March sort of the opportunities as you saw them at the time are really pretty consistent today with where you saw things back in March? Yes I would say so.
I mean I think what we're trying to say hopefully as clearly as possible that the opportunities are probably more short-term based on the fixed block businesses and that will take longer time on the VA.
So I think there is good interest.
We've seen transactions you've seen transactions in fixed annuity space our fixed annuities' structured settlements terminal funding.
Those are all blocks of business that we're exploring what is the most economic to do for the long-term.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one quick one...
Chris if I might add I totally concur with what Chris Swift just said.
And as the environment evolves and we expect that it will we fully understand the potentially positive effect on shareholder value if there are transactions that make sense to get some of these block-off off of our book.
And we have a mindset consistent with that sentiment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Understood.
And then just a quick one for Doug.
I guess specifically on the rate you're getting in the Mid Market comp book the 16% that you guys alluded to.
Can you comment about how much of that rate is needed purely just based on the decline in interest rates? So let me take that in 2 pieces.
Clearly we feel like we're out in front of trends and improving our margins across our comp lines for sure.
When we look at the change in the yield I would say across our Middle comp lines the pressure for more rate is roughly in the 4 to 5 range over time that we need to get to make up what I'll call 200 -- 150- to 200-basis-point change over the last 6 quarters.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Gallagher with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just first wanted to follow up on the VA restructuring opportunities a little bit.
So if I've heard you correctly especially with the comments Chris just made if we used the hypothetical fast forward it to year-end assuming your -- the 2 other property sales transactions are consummated so you have those proceeds or at least the anticipation of those proceeds there's nothing in the environment today again I'm kind of pro forming this that would suggest there would be a third-party transaction market solution for restructuring the VA book based on what you're seeing today.
Thus is it fair to conclude if I'm right on that that buybacks would be the preferred use of proceeds assuming nothing changes in the environment today? Is that a fair way to think about it? Tom going back to the remarks I made the formal remarks we do intend to pay down some debt as you would understand to manage our leverage and debt service coverage ratios to protect our ratings and take shareholder accretive actions.
I think either one of those whether that would be share buybacks or transactions that would economically and appropriately get the -- some part of the annuity book a block off of our books would both be shareholder-accretive.
If there's not -- I can't speculate on what's going to be happening at a particular given time but it is clear to say that among the most accretive things we could do today at the share price self-evident where it is would be to buy back shares.
But we're going to be -- our measure is what is the most accretive thing for shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just in terms of -- can you also just discuss a little bit about what is the main impediment or challenge as you think about restructuring opportunities? I'm not even asking for something so specific but as you think about what potentially can be done here is there -- is the most likely course here having a third party involved that assumes the liability? Would it be actually legally separating the liability through some kind of spin-off of the business where there isn't a third party involved per se? And then also if you could just mention whether the whole captive reinsurance encumbers your opportunity set here.
Tom it's Chris.
The challenge I'll call it succinctly is I mean if you look at the balance sheet we have about $165 billion of liabilities that are in runoff in the Life group.
So one it's obvious just the sheer size and scale.
There's not going to be I'll call it 1 solution 1 silver bullet.
So the way we're thinking about it right now I mean this will be a series of moves over a longer period of time to eventually transfer runoffs isolate separate these liabilities.
So there isn't going to just be 1 thing.
I think I've always said Tom and particularly I know you know I mean if you really look at the fundamentals of the U.S.
and Japan they're different.
The U.S.
block from a relative risk perspective or relative size and its components are fixed and variable actually it's a balanced portfolio liabilities.
Japan on the other hand I think from a shareholder value perspective is the greatest opportunity we have to manage that in the most accretive way long term.
So whether that be a short-term transaction or that would be long-term just managing the cash flows as effectively as possible those are the things that we're thinking about and modeling and working very diligently on.
Research Division</strong> And Chris any issues with captive re and whether or not -- I think there's some level of speculation out there that because the way the captive reinsurance is capitalized the captive reinsure is capitalized that it would take years and years before you could release capital out of these businesses.
Is there any truth to that? Or maybe you can comment on that.
No.
I don't think the reinsurance structure has anything to do with capital movements and release.
And as you know we have 2 captives: one that manages our XXX program that will be dealt with in the sales process; and then White River which is our Vermont-based captive.
So is there -- I mean it is -- just view it as a way to manage RBC and risk-based capital between the 2 organizations.
So they go hand-in-hand but there are no structural limitations just to be clear on how and when we would release capital because of that structure.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Glasspiegel with Langen McAlenney.
Chris I wanted to just push you a little bit on -- you said the stat capital is really the most important consideration over the near term which I agree.
Could you amplify your answer to John's question of the stress test of $1.50 [ph] 10-year for 5 years whether there would be any statutory implications to that? Bob I know you know the answer.
I mean low interest rates over a longer period of time won't be good and I think we've discussed in prior quarters managing cash flow testing C3 Phase 1 implication.
So all that would come into the mix Bob.
And you never want to be I'll call it totally predictive and judgmental but those would be issues everyone in the industry would have to face including The Hartford in the amount of additional reserves and capital we would have to put up for interest rates if we're 5 years out.
Okay.
Just a rough sense of like number of years of $1.50 [ph] 10-year that you can withstand before it becomes a stress.
Well again I'm not going to try to predict the precise number so it's hard.
All I could say though from a current point of view I mean we do have cash flow testing reserves up for blocks that see compression of spreads out 5 6 years right now.
So we're dealing with it right now.
I think you're ultimately asking about the pace of that and I'm not going to be in a position to predict that right now.
Okay.
And just -- as I read your comments on sort of pausing on capital until 2013 you want to keep some flexibility to deal with runoff more seriously.
Is there a maximum statutory hit that you'd be willing to take on the runoff business? Is there sort of a borderline -- how much flexibility do you have? I think from a pure financial side we have a lot of flexibility.
I think the calculus that Liam referred to is -- will it create shareholder value and that's the math and calculus we'll go through when and if we're presented with transactions.
Okay.
So there's no sort of upper bound on how much of a hit you'd be willing to take even though it would make sense to get rid of it from an economic point of view.
Yes I think what you have to think about Bob is on 1 individual transaction what does it mean for the rest of the block the rest of the liability? So I mean it is I'll call it a complex equation because again it's not just 1 transaction.
So if for say you wanted to take a hit what does that do for the other liabilities? What does that do to your stress scenario? So those are all the things that we would consider.
Thank you.
And Darlene I know we're bumping up against somebody else's conference call.
So for those of you who are in the queue thank you very much.
I'll be happy to follow up with you after the calls today.
We appreciate your interest in The Hartford and the IR team is here today and available for any follow-up questions you may have after the call.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Felicia and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Purtill.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to The Hartford's Third Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Our speakers today are Liam McGee The Hartford's Chairman President and CEO; and Chris Swift our CFO.
Other members of our executive management team present today include Beth Bombara Doug Elliot Brion Johnson Alan Kreczko Andy Napoli and Bob Rupp.
As detailed on Page 2 of the presentation statements concerning The Hartford's future results or actions should be considered forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual results may be materially different.
We do not assume any obligation to update the forward-looking statements.
You should consider the important risks and uncertainties that may cause The Hartford's actual results to differ including those discussed in our press release our third quarter 10-Q 2011 10-K and other filings we make with the SEC.
Please note that our presentation includes financial measures that are not derived from Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or GAAP.
Definitions and reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are provided in our financial supplement press release and 10-Q.
I'll now turn the call over to Liam.
Thank you Sabra.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
Before I begin on behalf of all of us at The Hartford our thoughts and prayers are with those who have been affected by Storm Sandy.
And on a personal note we at The Hartford hope that each of you and your family are faring well during these very challenging times because clearly this was a devastating storm with a large footprint and tropical force winds that impacted a highly populated area.
At The Hartford our catastrophe team has been on the ground working 24/7 to help our policy holders and I want to express my deep appreciation to our claims teammates and others in the field.
In addition we are also very thankful for the emergency personnel and volunteers who are providing basic needs and critical services.
I know you all are interested in loss estimates but it's much too early for us to provide data with any level of certainty.
We're still waiting for clearance from local authorities to access some areas.
Yesterday for example was the first day we were able to get adjusters into Long Island.
Now clearly this is a significant event for those who suffered losses.
But Storm Sandy is well within the planning scenarios we use to manage catastrophe risk at The Hartford.
This is a major storm but it is a manageable exposure for The Hartford.
As we have more certainty around The Hartford's losses we will provide you with details.
Now let's cover third quarter results and activities.
I am pleased with The Hartford's third quarter achievements.
First we announced the sale of the 3 Wealth Management businesses we committed to sell last March ahead of our year-end target.
The businesses are going to strong strategic buyers.
And the sales are expected to generate about $2.2 billion of statutory capital benefit for The Hartford.
Second The Hartford generated strong overall financial results in the third quarter with core earnings of $378 million significantly better than the $50 million last year.
Net income was also up strongly rising from $60 million to $401 million.
Third The Hartford's go-forward businesses demonstrated increasing earnings momentum benefiting from strong pricing trends along with improved retention in Property &amp; Casualty Commercial and new business growth in Consumer Markets.
Mutual Funds also showed improved net flows.
Core earnings from the 3 go-forward segments totaled $294 million this quarter compared with $121 million last year.
Now while much of that improvement was due to last year's high catastrophe losses combined ratios excluding caps in prior development improved in both Property &amp; Casualty Commercial and Consumer Markets as did the loss ratio in Group Benefits.
In Property &amp; Casualty Commercial we continued to generate sustained written price increases with an 8% increase in standard commercial lines this quarter up from 7% for the first half of 2012.
Our focus on pricing discipline will continue in the fourth quarter and into 2013.
Doug and his team are doing an excellent job balancing margin expansion with retention and pricing.
Our primary goal particularly in Middle Market is to drive to acceptable levels of profitability.
So there will continue to be a dampening effect on the top line as less profitable accounts move to other carriers.
We are pursuing similar tactics in Group Benefits.
The Hartford was among the first to recognize and respond to the adverse incidents and termination trends.
However given the 3-year contract terms in this line it takes longer for the results of pricing actions to fall to the bottom line.
In the third quarter core earnings trends benefited slightly from an improvement in termination rates although they do remain lower than historical levels.
Improving terminations combined with our pricing initiatives should slowly expand margins.
In Consumer Markets Andy and his team are focused on maintaining margins in auto expanding margins in homeowners continuing new business growth and improving retention.
We recently enhanced the pricing segmentation in our Open Road Advantage auto product which has helped lift conversion rates.
New business production is up and we feel good about the mix of business.
Homeowners continues to need rate and we have been diligent in pursuing it.
Efforts to improve retention are yielding positive results with continuing quarterly improvements in auto and home.
The Mutual Funds business also made good progress during the quarter as its balanced and fixed-income funds posted more favorable net flows.
Overall flows remain negative due to continuing industry-wide withdrawals from domestic equity funds.
However the company's third quarter flows were the best we've seen since the first quarter of 2011.
Several funds generated particularly strong performance in the quarter.
For instance the Balanced Income Fund had top quartile Lipper performance both for the quarter and year-to-date and was one of our top funds in gross sales at $385 million for the quarter.
In addition our World Bond Fund was recently recognized as a newcomer of the year by the Wall Street Journal.
In our Runoff division third quarter financial results were in line with our expectations with core earnings x DAC unlock declining 6% from the prior year reflecting lower earnings from U.S.
annuity.
Beth Bombara and her team have been examining a range of options to address the legacy annuity blocks.
One area of focus is on contract holder initiatives such as the enhanced surrender value option -- offer that we filed earlier this week with the SEC.
This option will be offered to contract holders who represent about 15% of our U.S.
GMWB book in terms of account value but more importantly nearly 45% of the U.S.
GMWB net amount at risk.
Similar to programs introduced by several other companies it offers the contract holder the option to surrender the policy at a premium to the current account value.
We continue to aggressively examine other options to accelerate the runoff of the U.S.
and international annuities and look forward to updating you on our progress.
With any actions we take we will continue to honor our obligations to contract holders.
Finally I'm pleased that we reached definitive sales agreements for Individual Life Retirement Plans and Woodbury Financial Services this quarter ahead of our year-end target.
We're selling these businesses at good values that will generate an estimated net statutory capital benefit of approximately $2.2 billion.
Furthermore they are being sold to market-leading strategic buyers who saw value in our innovative products strong distribution and employee expertise.
We expect to close the Woodbury transaction by year-end and Individual Life in the first quarter of 2013.
We're working to close Retirement Plans by year-end but it may slip a little into the new year as we work through the necessary regulatory approvals.
Chris will discuss the company's expense initiatives.
The bottom line however is that we will reduce about $850 million in expense.
The vast majority of which relates to the elimination of all expenses of the divested businesses.
Moreover approximately 90% of the expenses will be eliminated by the end of 2013.
With the sales announced I know investors are interested in our capital management plans.
We are developing holistic capital management plans which we will discuss with regulators and rating agencies and which we will share with you in early 2013 after the transactions are closed.
Our goal in managing capital is to pursue accretive actions for shareholders while both maintaining a balance sheet sufficient for adverse economic environments and the current ratings of our go-forward businesses and preserving financial flexibility to be opportunistic in taking future actions to address the company's legacy annuity liabilities.
Therefore we expect that our capital management plans will include: debt repayment to reduce leverage and improve our interest coverage ratios over time; share repurchases which at current prices are very accretive; and retaining some capital to take future actions for permanent solutions to reduce the size and risk of the legacy annuity liabilities which should create significant shareholder value.
To conclude The Hartford had a successful third quarter.
We reached agreements in all 3 of the planned sales ahead of schedule at attractive prices and with strong buyers who value the skills and expertise of our teammates.
We had strong core earnings.
We demonstrated pricing and margin momentum in our go-forward businesses.
And our Life Runoff team is considering options to accelerate the runoff of the legacy annuity blocks including the recent filing of the enhanced surrender value program offer.
The Hartford is becoming a more focused company that has the potential to create greater shareholder value while providing policyholders with the protection and service that they depend on.
I am confident that we are on the right path and I look forward to communicating our continued progress.
I'll now turn the call over to Chris who'll cover our financial results in more detail.
Chris? Thank you Liam.
Good morning everyone.
This morning I'm going to focus on 3 topics: first I'll cover key aspects of this quarter's financial results; second I will provide an update on our expense initiatives including efforts to remove all the direct and indirect expenses of the businesses we are selling; and third I'll provide an outlook for fourth quarter and full year 2012 results.
I'll begin on Slide 5.
Third quarter 2012 core earnings were $378 million or $0.78 per diluted share.
These results were in line with our outlook of $0.75 to $0.80.
On a run rate basis core earnings were $0.77 per share which excludes the items summarized on Slide 5 which totaled $0.01 per share.
These items included a modest charge for reestimating current accident year prior quarter loss reserves for workers' compensation and commercial auto of approximately $0.05 per share.
Restructuring expenses totaled $34 million after tax or about $0.07 per share slightly above our August estimate.
Turning to Slide 6.
The Hartford's book value per diluted share rose 10% over the past year to $48.13 including a $2 billion increase in net after-tax unrealized gains on fixed maturity investments as a result of continued low interest rates and tighter credit spreads over the last year.
It also includes the approximately $900 million or $1.83 per share reduction in shareholders' equity due to the Allianz debt refinancing and warrant share repurchase in the first half of 2012.
Book value excluding AOCI was $41.35 per diluted share flat with prior year as net income over the past year was largely offset by the impact of the Allianz transactions.
For the last 12 months our core earnings ROE was 7.2% up from 6% for the 12 months ended September 30 2011.
Slide 7 has a high-level summary of P&amp;C Commercial results.
Core earnings were $160 million up 84% from prior year.
Catastrophe losses came in at $7 million after tax compared with $60 million last year.
In addition the increase in core earnings reflects improved margins in Middle Market.
The third quarter 2012 combined ratio x cat x prior year was 97.5% down from 99.4% in prior year.
Favorable expenses and better experience in property lines were partially offset by a deterioration in commercial auto liability results.
Third quarter 2012 included $39 million of current accident year prior quarter loss reestimation or 2.5 points on the loss ratio.
This compares to $47 million or 3 points on the loss ratio last year.
This year's changes were due to higher severity in commercial auto particularly in small commercial and a slight adjustment for lost time workers' compensation claims.
Even with this change the 2012 workers' comp accident year loss ratio is approximately 4 points better than 2011 accident year.
This reflects the pricing and underwriting actions we have taken over the last 12 to 18 months.
Our pricing and underwriting discipline in P&amp;C Commercial has resulted in pricing increases across the portfolio and we remain committed to driving actions necessary to improve margins in the fourth quarter and beyond.
Middle Market workers' compensation is a key contributor to our achieved pricing increases with rate increases averaging 15% this quarter consistent with the rate achieved in the second quarter.
In Middle Market property rates increased 10% compared with 8% in the first half.
Our team is proactively managing renewal rate increases account retention and new business growth to optimize overall profitability.
While aggregate rate increases may have leveled off our focus on margin improvement will continue.
Group Benefits results are summarized on Slide 8.
Although below historic levels we're pleased with the trends we're seeing in the segment.
Core earnings were $23 million up 15% due to improved loss trends.
The loss ratio was 79.3% an improvement over prior year's 80.1% and reflected better LTD results offset by less favorable mortality in Group Life this quarter.
As a result of our sustained pricing actions over the past 2 years Group Benefits premiums declined 7% year-over-year.
We expect this trend will continue into 2013 due to the impact of our renewal pricing strategies on persistency.
Year-to-date persistencies averaged 62%.
Turning to Consumer Markets on Slide 9.
Core earnings were $93 million a turnaround from core losses of $10 million in the third quarter of 2011 which had a significant level of catastrophes.
This quarter had no net catastrophe losses as the $16 million of after-tax losses from the third quarter events including Hurricane Isaac were offset by favorable development on catastrophes from the first half of 2012.
We continue to be pleased with the progress that Andy Napoli and his team are making balancing profitability and growth.
Consumer Markets underwriting margins excluding catastrophes have expanded as we take rate increases.
The third quarter combined ratio excluding cats and prior year development was 93.3% down more than 2 points from 95.5% last year are duly because of improved homeowner results.
Auto results were comparable to the prior year.
We remain focused on achieving rate increases consistent with the loss cost trends.
Loss costs continue to be slightly higher in auto due to physical damage severity although it moderated from the first half of 2012.
The increase in physical damage severity was largely offset by favorable trends on auto liability frequency this quarter.
We achieved written rate increases of 6% in homeowners and 4% in auto this quarter.
On the growth side new business premiums are up 9% this quarter and 18% year-to-date.
AARP Agency is a strong growth source.
In the first 9 months of 2012 written premiums in AARP Agency were $96 million almost double that of the prior year period.
Retention has also improved up 2 points in auto and 3 points in homeowners compared to a year ago.
Mutual Fund results are summarized on Slide 10.
Core earnings were $18 million down from the prior year but flat with the second quarter of 2012.
The principal reason for the decline was lower fees reflecting lower average assets under management and higher distribution and marketing expenses as we execute our strategy with Wellington.
Net flow performance has significantly improved from the past several quarters as a result of stronger deposits into our fixed income and balanced fund choices.
We are optimistic about the prospects for this business as we work with Wellington to expand marketing for The Hartford funds.
The results of our combined Life and P&amp;C Runoff division are on Slide 11.
Core earnings x DAC unlock were $168 million comprised of $147 million from Life other operations and $21 million from P&amp;C.
The DAC unlock included in core earnings for the quarter totaled a charge of $11 million compared with a $126 million charge in the third quarter of 2011.
For the quarter surrenders averaged 14.7% on the U.S.
variable annuity book and 3.6% for Japan VA slightly higher than historical levels but lower than the 17.5% and the 4.5% respectively we saw in the second quarter.
We recently filed for approval with the SEC an enhanced surrender value option which Liam discussed.
This represents our first of initiatives to provide contract holders with additional choices for their contract that also meet our objectives of reducing risk with reasonable economics.
Turning to the impact of the VA book in capital resources.
Slide 12 provides a summary of VA hedging results for the quarter.
During the quarter the net statutory impact of our VA liabilities and hedges was a negative $4 million before tax excluding fees earned in the quarter and other impacts to surplus.
It's been about a year since we've completed the buildout of our Japan hedging program.
The goal of all our hedging programs is to manage our economic exposure which is our continued focus and which is performing as we expect in these market conditions.
We have retained some market risk although throughout 2012 we have increased interest rate protection.
You can find our updated sensitivities in our 10-Q.
Slide 13 is a new slide that combines our statutory surplus roll-forward with our total capital resources.
Total U.S.
statutory surplus before dividends to the holding company increased by approximately $100 million from June 30 reflecting $215 million of increased P&amp;C surplus that was offset by a slight decrease in U.S.
Life surplus.
After $200 million of dividends to -- from the P&amp;C company to the holding company surplus was essentially flat.
Year-to-date Life statutory surplus is up about $150 million.
We perform our annual cash flow testing at the end of the year which will impact full year results given sustained low interest rates and tighter credit spreads.
Consistent with our prior outlook we continue to expect U.S.
Life statutory surplus to be flat or slightly down for the full year.
Our capital resources which include U.S.
statutory surplus as well as the $1.3 billion in Japan capital were equal to the $18 billion we had at the end of June 30.
Holding company cash and short-term investments totaled $1.4 billion.
Looking forward the 3 sales transactions are expected to increase our statutory surplus by approximately $1.4 billion for a total net statutory capital benefit of about $2.2 billion based on current estimates.
As Liam mentioned we are working on our capital plans and we look forward to sharing them with you in early 2013.
Turning to the second item on my agenda Slide 14 sets forth our updated expense initiatives.
As Liam mentioned we expect to reduce expenses by approximately $850 million before tax most of which will be completed in 2013.
Slide 14 breaks out the components of the expense reductions.
In addition to our prior efficiency commitments we will reduce expenses by another $100 million related to putting U.S.
VA into Runoff and $615 million related to the 3 businesses being sold.
We have detailed plans for execution and have begun reducing expense levels in 2012 which will continue into 2013.
As a result of these initiatives we expect to incur a restructuring charge of approximately $45 million to $50 million after tax in the fourth quarter.
This charge will accrue for all planned 2013 severance costs for approximately 500 positions affected over the course of 2013 as well as other fourth quarter items such as retention payments.
At year-end we will have expensed about 85% of ultimate restructuring costs we anticipate.
In 2013 we currently expect to have approximately $30 million after tax of additional restructuring and other expenses.
Bottom line we have significant expense-reduction goals and have a high degree of confidence in our ability to achieve them.
Finally my last item before taking questions is to look at our year-to-date results and our fourth quarter outlook.
As summarized on Slide 15 our core earnings excluding DAC unlock prior year developments cats above budget and restructuring charges for the first 9 months of the year totaled $1.2 billion or $2.40 per diluted share.
Our current fourth quarter outlook projects core earnings of approximately $375 million to $400 million or $0.77 to $0.82 per diluted share based on an estimated diluted share count of approximately 486 million shares.
This outlook does not include any estimate of DAC unlock or prior year loss development and is also before the previously mentioned restructuring charge which approximates $0.10 per diluted share.
This outlook includes a budgeted cat load of approximately $68 million before tax.
This cat load does not include an estimate of expected losses from Sandy.
Our plan is to update you on the impact of this major storm event when we have good estimates.
Combined with year-to-date results our current 2012 outlook excluding the DAC unlock prior year development and other items listed on Slide 15 totals approximately $1.5 billion to $1.6 billion for the year slightly less than our December '11 outlook of $1.6 billion to $1.7 billion.
We are pleased with this result given the challenging microeconomic environment as well as the significant strategic actions we took this year which were not anticipated in our December outlook.
We are currently working on our 2013 plan which we expect to share with you in February on our fourth quarter 2012 earnings call.
To conclude I am pleased with both our business results and our strategic accomplishments this quarter and this year.
Despite the weak economy and low interest rates our business has performed largely in line with our expectations.
Our capital resources remain strong and stable and our hedging programs continue to protect us against adverse economic and market conditions.
At this point I'd like to turn the call over to Sabra to begin our Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Chris.
We have about 30 minutes of time for Q&amp;A.
Felicia could you please give the instructions for asking a question? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Mark Finkelstein with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> So first a quick question on the enhanced surrenders that you're doing on the variable annuities.
I'm just curious if the offers -- how do the offers and the -- kind of the premium that you're going to be offering how would that roughly compare to the reserves that you're holding against those guarantees? Mark this is Liam.
I'm going to have Beth Bombara who runs our Runoff division answer that question.
Okay.
Thanks Mark for the question.
So the way I think about it is obviously with the enhanced surrender value option we are paying a premium above the current account value.
That might be slightly higher than the reserves that we carry today.
But the way that we really look and evaluate these programs is we look at what it does to the requirements in our stress scenarios because as you know we hold capital for our stress scenarios and we would anticipate that the cost of the program would be less than what the benefit is we would see from reductions in required reserves in those stress scenarios.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question is for Chris.
I guess on Slide 12 you kind of gave a comparison of the hedged mark-to-market asset versus the change in the VACARVM liability which was essentially flattish in the quarter despite markets obviously being a little bit higher.
I'm just kind of curious in a broad -- from a broad perspective are we at that kind of point where we should start to see -- if markets continue to cooperate if we should start to see statutory earnings in the Variable Annuity business? Mark thanks for the question.
I think your point's a good one.
This quarter was negative $4 million as we talked about.
And I remind you that again we're -- our hedge programs aren't I'll call it managing all the economics so we still have risk positions on.
So you're always going to have I'll call it differences between your VACARVM liabilities and your changes in fair value of hedge assets.
But as we've said before generally at the 1450 S&amp;P level we start to feel very good about the performance of the VA block going forward.
You could see it in I'm going to call it the net amount of risk coming down this quarter.
So we're at that inflection point where if markets continue to improve -- and it won't happen overnight Mark where we would generate a lot of statutory surplus off the VA block but over time with steady market performance it is very positive for us.
I would have to point out that offsetting that is really the continued low interest rate environment.
So as much as equity markets are positive around the world low interest rates in the U.S.
Europe and in Japan are still a significant headwind for our statutory surplus creation on the Life side.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one quick follow-up to that point.
In your last year presentation you kind of gave an estimated long-term economic cost to hedging kind of 40 basis points on the U.S.
block; 15 dynamic 25 macro.
As you look out does that change at all with kind of how the block has moved in the markets? Not really.
I mean if I look at I'll call it the cost what we're expending and sort of the path-dependent performance of our hedges I mean it's fairly consistent with what we started the year end [ph].
So as we head into '13 Mark if we're going to modify any of our hedging programs which we are always considering how to make it more economic beneficial we'll update you.
But right now as we head into the fourth quarter I'd say those estimates are still the best ones we have.
Your next question comes from the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> So a couple quick questions.
I'm looking at Slide 14 the expense reduction target.
Obviously 2 pretty large pieces of that pie won't really start to come through until the sales close.
But with respect to the remaining $235 million of expense reductions I'm wondering how much of that is already in your run rate earnings currently? I'll have Chris give you a little more detail John.
Thanks.
John thanks.
I would say let's take the pieces the $100 million for U.S.
annuity shutdown there's probably -- we're probably 30% achieved on our mission through '12 so there is some in there.
There'll be more that will come out particularly as we shrink shared services in 2013.
The $135 million of I'll call it expense efficiencies I'd say most of that will relate to our 2013 plan.
So I wouldn't say that there's very much in our run rate at this point in time.
That's the incremental goal that we established for '13.
Research Division</strong> Okay very helpful.
Then sort of separately from the Variable Annuity business for a moment thinking about the Fixed Annuity business.
I'm just interested in whether you've seen any interest in that business given the continued M&amp;A activity in that particular product line industry-wide.
And if you could just remind us how much statutory capital approximately you currently have supporting that business.
John if I understood your questions it's called the Fixed Annuity Transaction Market.
I know Beth and her team we work closely with her on those opportunities.
I mean we're aware we have intel we've got advisers that are working with us.
I think our simple analysis right now of what we see appetite in the marketplace compared to our book of business we just see a disconnect particularly given the low interest rates.
And as far as the capital I haven't provided capital by product line.
We might do that going forward but historically we haven't.
How I think about capital in total John is you think of the $7.5 billion of capital we have in the blue books we have approximately 150 -- excuse me $1.5 billion of that capital allocated to Group Benefits.
And the rest would be supporting VA Fixed Annuities and our Institutional Annuity blocks going forward.
Research Division</strong> And that $7.5 billion some of that Chris is related to the Life business no? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last quick one for you is just given the recent move lower in longer-term new money yields plus you combine that with the fact that you're going to sell a few businesses that are at least somewhat rate sensitives I was just wondering if you could just update for us your outlook for how we should think about rate pressure on your go-forward businesses into 2013.
Because I think previously you had talked about something along the lines of $50 million in '13 another $50 million on top of that in '14 et cetera.
Is it fair to assume that that's changed a bit given the sales and given rates? Thank you for the question John.
There's 2 aspects of rates that I just -- we'll touch upon.
One we touched upon from a statutory cash flow testing in approaching year-end.
I mean so there is going to be some pressure on that as far as additional reserves cash flow testing reserves C3 Phase I impacts so that would be the first pressure point.
As we look forward then after we sell Retirement and Life and we'll talk more about this when we provide you the full '13 plan we have about $4 billion of cash flows to reinvest in '13 and '14 for our ongoing businesses.
And so I would say that the new pressure point for continued low interest rates on a run rate basis is probably in the $20 million range for '13.
And then it would jump to $50 million in 2014.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Gallagher with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to come back to the expense plan reduction of Chris I think you said $850 million all in.
Just so I understand it correctly the -- I heard in response to John's question what you said about the 2013 plan which was you've only achieved 30% so far on the VA $100 million so that's an incremental $70 million there and $135 million on other various initiatives.
So let's just add this up to $200 million.
That still leaves another $650 million.
Should we assume this $650 million incremental is being offset by all the lost revenues that are going away with these asset sales? I just want to think about the other $600 million plus and eventually does any of that come through to the bottom line or not? Tom it's Chris.
I think on the slide if you had a chance to look at it the $450 million of your $600 million number is really going to the new owners so it's the employees it's the infrastructure.
So really when we close those transactions $450 million comes out immediately.
And then what we're left with is -- that really represents $165 million which represents I'll call it reducing our shared service platforms: IT operations finance.
That approximates the 500 positions that we'll eliminate in '13.
That will come out somewhat ratably in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay that explains that perfectly.
The -- another follow-up on the Variable Annuity filing for the buyouts.
Can you just give a little more color for what the target is here? I presume it's going to be the contracts that have the largest in-the-money type benefits that you'd be going after and the biggest VACARVM reserves.
Can you frame it a bit in terms of size? Are you targeting -- is it 10% or 20% of your book? Is it bigger? A little more color on the scale for this and what you're sort of hoping for.
Tom we'll have Beth do that.
She'll give you a little more color in addition to the comments I made about it being about 15% of the book and about 45% of the NAR.
So go ahead Beth.
Yes.
Thanks Tom.
So a couple of things just to frame it as to what policies this impacts.
So it's about -- in total about $5 billion of account value and it's related to policies that have our LIB II [ph] rider associated with them which is a lifetime income benefit rider.
And again the way that these programs work as I'm sure you know is that they're made available to all policyholders that meet the criteria that is in the filing.
So as far as targeting certain policyholders again it's open to all.
When we think about the benefits that we might see currently this book we see about a 5% lapse rate.
When I look at what might be reasonable expectations as to what we might see for sort of an increase in the take rate I think to the extent that that doubles or triples I think that's a reasonable expectation because we would never think that this choice would be right for all policyholders that have this benefit.
So that -- again that's how we're thinking about it right now.
And then as we go through the approval process and we're able to actually offer this benefit to policyholders we'll trip those estimates as we see actual take rates from the program.
Research Division</strong> And is there -- when you say 45% of the NAR is it also approximately 45% of the reserves in capital or is it not that linear? Well I think in all things VA things are never linear so I wouldn't look at it exactly that way.
But again given the fact that it does have the profile that it has you would expect that the reserves allocated to it are higher than maybe other reserves associated with other portions of our block.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just the last -- one last if I could sneak it in.
Chris just on Japan the main concern I've been hearing on that lately is rates are low.
There's -- is there a risk because of how deep in the money those contracts are in terms of the VA that there's going to be a higher utilization than you've modeled so there's fear that you might have to add to capital and reserves in Japan? Can you just give us some idea for over the next 2 to 3 years whether Japan is likely -- more likely to be a consumer or a returner of capital or something that's kind of neutral? Tom on low rates in Japan I would say right now in sort of our baseline scenario out the next couple years we don't see the need to inject capital into Japan.
But as you pointed out there are obviously pressure points from low interest rates.
All I can say is that our assumptions as I looked at them and again we updated all our policyholder behavior assumptions this quarter I think are very very prudent.
We do assume a high utilization of that benefit going forward.
So I think we've planned for it.
But in again a baseline scenario I don't think they're going to consume capital but on the other hand I don't think they're going to be releasing capital back to the U.S.
in a short period of time either.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Meredith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> First one can you just clarify your cat reinsurance program? I believe you've got a $350 million deductible on it.
Is there anything else we should think about as we kind of look at Sandy and the potential loss impact here? At a high level Brian you've got it that our maximum loss retention is $350 million.
Research Division</strong> Great great.
And then also from where Sandy hit how can we kind of think about your market share is it disproportionately larger there something like that? Anything you can kind of give us color on that? Brian Doug Elliot and his team have done an incredible amount of detail work on that side.
And again while it's very early I think he can give you a flavor.
Brian this is Doug.
I would say from a commercial perspective we don't see ourselves out of pattern in any of the areas.
Obviously these are early days but as we go through both our zip code and our territorial analysis across all the affected areas I think you'll see us in line relative to market footprint across the states.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I'd like to ask a question on some of the workers' comp reserve actions you continued to take here.
I'm just curious what's the challenge here in actually getting kind of loss picks right and reserves right with that line of business? And is there anything you're doing that going forward we're not going to see some of this current year development and adverse development on this line? So let's separate the current and the prior and let me see if I can add some color and give you some confidence about some of the actions we're taking which we feel very good about.
Number one on the prior accident year and we look at $18 million against the base of $6 billion.
I look at that Brian really as tuning.
We did do some minor strengthening to the accident years '11 '10 and '09 and we had some releases 5 4 and 3.
But $18 million and $6 billion really given what we've gone through the last 5 quarters I feel very good about our position.
And we will continue to monitor aggressively and not -- there might not be little bumps on the road but we are in a completely different spot than we were 5 quarters ago.
When I think about the current year a little bit of 2 stories.
One is 2/3 of our comp actions in the year were in Small Commercial.
When you step back and think about Small Commercial our returns and combined ratios in Small  are really really outstanding and I think they will stack up with pretty much anybody in the industry.
We saw a little bit of medical severity in the quarter and a little bit of larger cases.
So nothing major but enough so that we made some minor modifications to our current accident year pick in Comp in Small.
It's the first time we've had to do that in several years but we're watching and staying very careful again albeit you see the combined ratios and saw very solid returns and in line with outstanding rate adequacy across Small Commercial.
A different story in Middle.
We've talked aggressively about the rate actions we were taking in our Middle Market book the last 5 6 quarters.
We feel good about those rate actions.
They do not stop in third quarter '12.
We continue to march on.
And as Liam mentioned we're marching on into quarter 4.
So we're out beyond our trends both on a frequency and severity standpoint and we now are improving margins.
The prior actions had a little bit of Middle to them but as I look at the current accident year there isn't anything that concerns me.
And I feel good about the actions we're taking in the marketplace and reflected in the balance sheet.
So maybe some bumps along the way and a few bumps in the quarter but really very very steady progress.
And our behavior in the marketplace both from a new business perspective and a rate retention I think is a completely different spot than where we were third quarter 2011.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one last quick question for you Doug.
In new business Small Commercial actually declining this quarter.
Anything going on? Is that something we should continue to see going forward? So for us in Small Commercial we clearly are looking at our dials and we're making some adjustments.
Our pricing in Small Commercial moved up in the quarter.
That was a good thing.
We've got a little bit of pressure in automobile.
We're watching that carefully and so we've adjusted pricing and I think that has affected some of the top line.
Nothing that at this moment that concerns me but clearly not -- you're right not at the run rate that we had for the first 6 months.
So we'll stay on top of that.
I want to make sure our margins stay very strong in that business but we also are mindful that it's a business we'd like to grow and we're thoughtful as we move forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a few series of questions I guess on the VA buyout plans.
I think last quarter when I asked about sort of the buyout opportunity there was a comment that we don't know if there's evidence yet that consumers will actually kind of make that trade.
So have you seen evidence now that consumers will make that trade? And then if you achieve some of the targets that Beth talked about I guess what would be the next most logical step for further runoff of the VA book? I guess are there conversations or extensions you may be having with other participants that some of the more deep-in-the-money contracts if those can get cleared out that additional opportunities would free up or is that just too optimistic? Chris let me make just a high-level comment.
I'll let Beth comment on the market intelligence of others have done it.
Beth and her team to your -- the second part of your question are examining every single possibility we can reasonably consider to accelerate the runoffs of the book.
And as I just said in my remarks eventually a permanent resolution to the size of risk of some of the books as well.
So we have a variety of things in the pipeline.
Some will materialize because they'll make sense some won't but there's no stone being left unturned in our Life Runoff business.
So with that Beth I'll turn it over to you for any additional context that you want to give.
Sure.
So as it relates to the first part of your question Chris as to the success of some of these programs by others.
Anecdotally we've heard that there had been some success but really the way we looked at designing our program was really more about looking at our book and the characteristics of the policies that we're targeting through this.
And so because of that and when we look at the offer that we're making we do think that this will be attractive to some of the policyholders.
So we do expect to see some take rate as it relates to this program once it's launched.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Liam just one quick follow-up.
I'm not asking for specifics around the deployment of the $2.2 billion but if -- did I understand you correctly that the $2.2 billion will be used for debt pay-down buybacks as well as some action on further runoff of the VA book? Well Chris let me take a step back first of all.
Our capital management plan will be a holistic plan including the $2.2 billion.
And as I said our current intentions -- we certainly don't want to get ahead of our regulator and our other constituencies and we're in conversations with them.
So our current intentions would be to do debt prepayment.
At these share prices repurchases are very accretive as you know.
And third to preserve some capital so that we could be opportunistic when opportunities to permanently reduce the size and risk of the legacy annuity liabilities which we believe will be very attractive for shareholders.
The next question comes from the line of Randy Binner with FBR.
Research Division</strong> This is Dan Altscher on for Randy.
A question for either Chris or Doug on some clarification on the workers' comp accident year loss ratios.
I think Chris you said that 2012 is running about 4 points better than 2011.
Could you maybe give what the 2012 and 2011 accident year loss ratios are looking like actual numbers? Right so Randy let me -- this is Doug -- Dan this is Doug.
When you think about accident year '11 what we're referring to is accident '11 as it sits right now which is the 7-quarter look at '11 and that is correct that our view about accident year '12 versus '11 is about 4 points different.
At the moment third quarter '12 accident year is in the high 60s 68.
And I would say again that's our combined standard workers' comp ratio so it includes Middle and Small.
There are different dynamics inside each but those are the components that roll up to the total and also a little bit of National over the top.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And then just a quick follow-up for Beth.
You said the premium option or that the takeout of the VA buyout the premium that's being offered is relatively attractive.
Can you size that a little bit? Is it 5% above account value 10% account value? And now with the NAR being so much lower with equity markets higher what does that take like are policyholders really going to be interested in that now that their accounts are much closer to being made whole? Sure.
So a couple things as it relates to that.
As it relates to the program the way that it works is that if a policyholder were to elect this option they would be able to take out their account value with a waiver of any surrender charges that might still be applicable.
And about 55% of this book still has some portion of a surrender charge that's applicable.
And then the enhancement that they get above that account value is if they get a payment of 20% of what the benefit base is or think about that as the guarantee amount subject to a cap of overall 90%.
So it does provide an enhancement.
Again as we look at this book a significant portion of it is in the money so that most -- there are several policyholders that if they elect to this benefit they would receive an amount greater than their current account value.
Dan let me add one other detail to you.
I want to make sure that when you look at quarter-to-quarter you go back and actually look at when we roll out our quarterly triangles.
You make sure that the 7-quarter look at accident '11 is there.
The year-to-date September comp all-in 3-quarter look will be 64 64 2 [ph].
So there are lots of questions coming whether the quarter-to-date change -- the quarter-to-date change is 68 but the year-to-date will be 64.
Thank you.
Felicia I believe we're running out of time.
We have another company who has a call starting at 10.
So I'd like to thank you all for joining us today on the call.
I know many of you are dealing with telecommunications and commuting challenges.
Please feel free to reach out to the IR department at The Hartford for any follow-up questions and we look forward to talking to you soon.
Thank you and have a good day.
Thank you for participating in today's call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Tiffany and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Hartford's Fourth Quarter Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Sabra Purtill Head of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Welcome to The Hartford's 2012 financial results and 2013 outlook conference call.
Our speakers today include Liam McGee; and Chris Swift; as well as Doug Elliot President of Commercial Markets; and Andy Napoli President of Consumer Markets.
Other members of our executive management team are also available for the Q&amp;A session.
Today's prepared remarks are longer than normal in order to cover the 2013 outlook as well as Doug and Andy's presentations about their businesses.
We will still have about 30 minutes for Q&amp;A at the end of our prepared remarks.
As detailed on Page 2 of the presentation today's statements concerning future results or actions are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results may differ in a material manner from these statements.
In addition we do not assume any obligation to update the forward-looking statements.
Furthermore you should consider the risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ including those in our press release our 2012 10-K and other filings we make with the SEC.
Finally please note that our presentation includes financial measures that are not derived from GAAP.
Definitions and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are provided in the Financial Supplement press release and 10-Q available on our website.
I'll now turn the call over to Liam.
Thank you Sabra.
Good morning everyone and welcome.
As you saw from our release last night The Hartford had a strong finish to 2012 and the fourth quarter completed a successful year of strategic transformation as well as execution for the company.
Following the life divestures we enter 2013 with a sharper focus on the Property &amp; Casualty Group Benefits and Mutual Funds businesses.
We are transforming and profitably growing the organization with the continued goal of delivering greater shareholder value.
As Sabra mentioned on today's call Chris and I will speak and then Doug Elliot and Andy Napoli will review the Commercial Markets and Consumer Markets results and preview their 2013 outlooks.
We're going to use this format going forward so Doug and Andy can share greater detail about the operating fundamentals of their businesses.
Chris will provide an update on the impact of Storm Sandy but I do want to express our deep appreciation for the professionalism and excellence demonstrated by our claims team in their response to the storm.
Their dedication to serving our customers is a hallmark of The Hartford about which we're all very proud.
Before we start I also want to say thank you for the many wishes of good luck and good health.
I'm feeling great as well as very fortunate and we are back to business as usual.
Since I arrived at The Hartford in 2009 our top priority has been to restore the operating performance of the company and deliver increased shareholder value.
We have taken significant steps to improve the company's financial strength and stability.
As examples we repaid the TARP funds refinanced the Allianz debt successfully repositioned the investment portfolio implemented a tail hedge in Japan and executed a series of necessary expense actions.
As you know to accelerate our progress last March we announced a sharper strategic focus that returns The Hartford to its historical strengths in underwriting distribution and claims management.
The strategy aligns the company's resources with ongoing businesses that have competitive market positions strong capital-generating ability and lower sensitivity to capital markets.
Roughly 9 months later on January 2 we closed the last of the life divestitures.
The transactions were executed at attractive valuations with strong strategic buyers.
I'm proud of what the team has accomplished.
We made difficult decisions then executed them as planned.
These changes position the company to continue to grow shareholder value in the years ahead.
With the sale successfully closed we're pleased to share our capital management plan with you.
The capital plan is accretive to shareholders and is the culmination of a thoughtful comprehensive process that effectively balances several critical goals.
We have reviewed the plan with the rating agencies and have received approval from the Connecticut Insurance Department.
In the first quarter of 2013 we will make a $1.2 billion extraordinary dividend from our Connecticut domiciled life insurance companies and also in line to our Vermont life reinsurance captive and move about $300 million up to the holding company as well.
First we are allocating $500 million to a share repurchase program which we will execute over 2013 and '14.
Looking ahead our intention is to continue of a consistent capital management approach of returning excess capital as appropriate to our shareholders.
Second as part of the plan we will reduce holding company debt by $1 billion.
This will save about $55 million pretax of annualized interest expense by the end of 2014.
Debt reduction is an important capital use for 2 reasons.
First it's appropriate to reduce debt levels for the lost earnings from the divestitures.
In addition given The Hartford's increasingly P&amp;C centric businesses our goal is to reduce the company's debt leverage ratios to levels that are more consistent with a capital structure of other leading P&amp;C companies.
Our year-end 2014 target for debt to capitalization is in the low 20s range.
Third we're retaining additional capital in the life companies to supplement our financial flexibility to take actions to reduce risk in the legacy annuity blocks ranging from customer-oriented offers and exchanges to transactions with third parties.
We have the necessary resources to take future economical actions to address the legacy annuity liabilities which should create significant shareholder value.
As we look to 2013 we're focused on achieving profitable growth in each of our go-forward businesses primarily by driving margin improvement.
We saw a good progress in 2012 particularly in P&amp;C Commercial and personal lines homeowners.
In standard P&amp;C Commercial we achieved 9% renewal written price increases in the fourth quarter and 8% for the year.
This contributed to improvement in the combined ratio ex CAT and ex prior year and we expect these positive pricing trends to continue through 2013.
We are also better balancing our mix of P&amp;C Commercial business building on our historic strengths in worker's compensation.
We've expanded our property capability significantly over the past year which positions us to be a broader risk taker in the marketplace.
In Consumer Markets I'm pleased with the progress Andy and his team have made improving margins and growing new business.
And Andy will talk more about that later in the call.
In Group Benefits our disciplined repricing of the book has resulted in the shedding of some unprofitable accounts but has also improved margins and returns.
We think this is a good tradeoff and we're encouraged by the profitability trends in this business.
We saw a nice recovery during the fourth quarter and the 2013 outlook is positive.
Our Mutual Funds business is positioned for profitable growth through its expanded relationship with the Wellington Management.
We saw improved sales and net flows in the fourth quarter and fund performance for 2012 was outstanding with 80% of our funds beating their peers.
So we took significant steps in 2012 and the goal for '13 is to continue to drive profitable growth in the go-forward businesses.
We are determined to reduce the size and risks of the legacy annuity liabilities.
As you know last year we put the annuity business into runoff and named Beth Bombara to lead that effort.
She and the team have been evaluating a number of contract holder initiatives and other actions to reduce the risk embedded in these liabilities with the ultimate goal of being to isolate or separate them from The Hartford.
As you know as an initial step we're launching the enhanced surrender value offer for a subset of U.S.
VA policyholders.
Communications about the offer started in January.
We believe this offer will be attractive to certain policyholders and will result in an increase in surrender activity in this block.
As you know global equity markets posted strong results in the second half of 2012 and that continued in January.
In addition the yen has weakened significantly against the dollar and the euro over the past several months.
These market conditions have positive economic implications for The Hartford and have significantly improved the in the moneyness of the U.S.
and Japan VA blocks.
For example the net amount at risk for the Japan income benefit has declined significantly from $6.1 billion at the end of the third quarter to $1.9 billion at the end of January.
And the general consensus is that the yen will continue to weaken which would be positive for us.
Our goal is to maximize shareholder value by effectively managing the runoff of these liabilities and reducing the amount of capital needed to support them.
Improving market conditions may make it more attractive for policyholders to take actions such as surrender annuitization and should also create expanded opportunities for us to explore risk transfer transactions with third parties.
All of these actions would reduce our exposure to this business and result in lower capital required to support these liabilities.
As Chris will detail we will hold an Investor Day in April and much of the agenda will focus on our runoff annuity operations which we've named Talcott Resolution and how we will maximize shareholder value by managing these liabilities particularly in the context of the recent market improvements.
Chris will cover our 2013 earnings outlook of $1.375 billion to $1.475 billion which reflects lost earnings from the life company sales better margins in the ongoing businesses declining assets under management at Talcott an increase in the budgeted CAT load in our P&amp;C businesses and the elimination of expenses from the divested life businesses 90% of which will be taken out by year-end 2013.
So to close the fourth quarter was a strong end to a transformational year for The Hartford.
We feel very good about what we've accomplished.
With our focus on driving profitable growth in the ongoing businesses and reducing the size and risk of the annuity liabilities we are confident in our ability to execute our plan and drive increasing shareholder value.
With that now I'll turn the call over to Chris.
Thank you Liam.
Good morning everyone.
This morning I will focus on 4 areas.
First I'll briefly cover fourth quarter and full year 2012 results.
Second I will provide an update on our Life runoff operations which we have named Talcott Resolution.
Third I'll discuss our capital management plan.
And last but not least I'll cover our 2013 core earnings outlook.
Let's begin on Slide 7.
Fourth quarter 2012 core earnings were $265 million or $0.54 per diluted share.
This quarter we changed our definition of core earnings which now excludes restructuring and other costs and DAC unlocks.
We believe this definition gives a better view of fundamental operating results.
Storm Sandy generated significant CAT losses this quarter.
2 months have passed since we released our preliminary estimate which is the same as what we recorded in this quarter's results.
This quarter this storm generated more claims than any other CAT event in our history.
To date we've closed about 80% of property claims and 90% of auto claims.
For the quarter total pretax CAT losses were $335 million including the $350 million for Sandy.
This means that fourth quarter CATs after tax were $174 million higher than our original guidance.
Core earnings in the quarter after excluding CATs prior-year development and a small retiree tax benefit were about $0.87 per diluted share above our November outlook of $0.77 to $0.82 per diluted share.
Improved group LTD results lower expenses in Talcott Resolution and favorable non-CAT weather results were the principal drivers over this outperformance.
Slide 8 summarizes full year 2012 results.
Core earnings were $1.4 billion or $2.88 per diluted share.
Excluding prior year development and the retiree tax benefit and catastrophes above forecast 2012 core earnings were $1.6 billion or $3.27 per diluted share.
Turning to Slide 9.
The Hartford's book value per diluted share rose by 5% to $46.59 over the past year.
Net income and higher AOCI were partially offset by charges for the Allianz debt refinancing and warrant share repurchase in April of 2012 both of which reduced shareholders equity.
Excluding AOCI book value per diluted share declined slightly to $40.79 principally due to the Allianz transactions.
For 2012 core earnings ROE was 7% a strong improvement from the 5.6% in 2011.
We continue to focus on improving core earnings ROE.
This quarter we also realigned our financial reporting to reflect the company's focus on its P&amp;C Group Benefits and Mutual Funds businesses.
In order to help you reconcile your models to prior recording we posted a schedule on our website for both the new core earnings and the line of business presentations.
On Slide 10 you can find our consolidated P&amp;C results which include P&amp;C Commercial Consumer Markets and P&amp;C Other Operations.
P&amp;C results improved significantly in 2012.
2012 P&amp;C core earnings totaled $714 million compared with $279 million in 2011 reflecting improved underwriting results and lower prior year development.
Our accident year P&amp;C underwriting margins improved over 2011.
The P&amp;C combined ratio excluding CATs and prior year development declined to 94.8% versus 95.5% in 2011.
We achieved underwriting margin improvements in both P&amp;C Commercial and Consumer Markets although we still have work to do.
The P&amp;C full year combined ratio was 101.9% almost 5 points better than the 106.8% in 2011.
We had much lower prior year development and slightly lower current accident year CATs in 2012.
2012 prior year development was favorable by $4 million before tax compared with unfavorable by $367 million in 2011 which had significant charges for legacy asbestos exposures and workers' compensation.
Let's turn to results for Mutual Fund which are summarized on Slide 11.
So far in 2013 we are pleased to see positive momentum in key areas of the business including sales net flows fund performance and market appreciation.
Fourth quarter retail Mutual Fund sales were good rising 34% from prior year.
Net outflows while still negative improved significantly versus prior year as redemptions slowed.
Overall the team is making progress on its distribution and product expansion goals which are key tactics for generating profitable growth in this segment.
Fund performance also improved substantially in 2012 with 80% of our funds ranked in the top half of their Morningstar peers.
In particular the Capital Appreciation Fund went from bottom quartile performance in 2011 to top quartile in 2012 outperforming the S&amp;P 500 by about 400 basis points.
These metrics are very important to retail broker sales and we are optimistic that this will help to improve 2013 net flows compared with the last 2 years.
Talcott Resolution results my second topic are on Slide 12.
The principal goal for Talcott is to reduce the size and risk of its liabilities.
As a result between the business sales and the decline in annuity blocks we expect reduced core earnings in 2013 and thereafter as fee income shrinks.
Consistent with this outlook Talcott's account values shrank during 2012 although core earnings were up by 7% compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 primarily due to lower expenses.
Year-over-year U.S.
variable annuity account values declined 6% as surrenders more than offset strong U.S.
equity market appreciation.
The surrender rate rose to approximately 16% for the year and U.S.
variable annuity net outflows totaled $11.4 billion.
The full surrender rate which excludes partial surrenders and withdrawal benefits was 10.9% for 2012 about 1.5 points higher than 2011.
As Liam mentioned we are now beginning to launch the ESP program.
In our initial phase we will reach about 45% of eligible policyholders.
Contract holder outreach began in late January but it will take a few months for us to gauge customer response.
I'd now like to turn to VA results.
On Slide 13 it provides a summary of the 2012 VA impacts including hedging.
The significant driver of the $716 million GAAP loss was yen hedge losses for our Japan VA book where the corresponding liability is not fair valued under GAAP.
As we have shared with you previously our hedging programs are focused on economics through which neither GAAP nor statutory are a good estimate.
Nevertheless we know you are keenly interested in our statutory results.
The negative statutory impact in the quarter was $439 million pretax and before fee income.
Net of hedging we expected a modest negative statutory impact due to the improving market environment which generated hedge losses.
The final impact was higher due to about $300 million of nonmarket related impacts for assumption changes on reserves from increased expenses and the duration extension of the macro hedge program.
I would note the cost structure of our macro hedge program has improved which is now estimated to be approximately $75 million to $100 million annual cash spend down from the previous $200 million to $250 million.
Before moving on I wanted to talk about the yen.
We are encouraged by the weakening of the yen which reduces net amount at risk and improves the net economics of the book.
We also expect this may influence policyholder behavior at annuitization.
Based on the January 31 closing price of JPY 91.7 to the dollar our net retained death benefit NAR declined 31% from $4.8 billion at year end to $3.3 billion while the net income retained benefit NAR declined 42% from $3.3 billion to $1.9 billion.
These are significant moves in the month of January.
The weaker yen will reduce the book's in the moneyness and could accelerate the runoff of this block which ultimately reduce our economic liability to contract holders.
We are encouraged by this trend and we'll continue to maintain our dynamic hedging program for Japan.
Now I'm going to cover our capital position which is summarized on Slide 14 along with our capital management plans.
The Hartford's capital resources totaled $16.6 billion at December 31 2012.
This was a decrease from September but was more than offset by the $1.7 billion statutory gain from the sales transactions.
The far right-hand column of Slide 14 shows that we would have reported an approximate $500 million increase in surplus if the transactions had closed by December 31 versus early January.
Further down that column you can see the pro forma capital position after the $1.5 billion dividend and return of surplus.
Pro forma life statutory surplus would be about $6.6 billion and total capital resources would increase to $18.3 billion.
The end result is our capital position remains strong.
We estimate that the pro forma RBC for the Hartford life entities would be approximately 420% taking into account the net reduction and required capital due to the business sales and the dividend payment.
We intend to keep the life companies well capitalized for their business risk and consistent with their current ratings.
In addition to the transactions in the VA impacts we moved the Mutual Funds legal entities out of the life stack to the life holding company which reduced life surplus by $200 million.
Finally other statutory impacts include deferred tax assets and additional reserves for fixed rate liabilities in this low-interest rate environment.
Total holding company cash and short-term investments at year end totaled $1.4 billion equal to last quarter.
This will increase to $2.9 billion after the dividend associated with the capital management plan.
Let me turn to that now.
Last night we announced that our capital plan had been reviewed and approved with the Connecticut Insurance Department and the 4 rating agencies.
We expect to dividend $1.2 billion from our Connecticut domiciled life insurance companies in the first quarter of 2013.
In addition as a result of the Individual Life sale we expect to dissolve our Vermont life reinsurance captive in the near term and return approximately $300 million of surplus to the holding company.
Let me now cover the capital management plan.
As mentioned in the press release we are launching a $500 million share repurchase program.
We expect to execute the program ratably between now and year end 2014 at about $50 million to $100 million per quarter.
Second we will reduce the outstanding by approximately $1 billion.
We currently expect to pay off the $320 million July 2013 and the $200 million March of 2014 maturities when due.
Our goal is to lower The Hartford's debt to total capital ratio into the low 20% and over time to improve the fixed charge coverage ratio to about 5 to 6x.
I'd now like to cover our 2013 outlook and summarize the key assumptions.
These assumptions and other macroeconomic factors are included in the table on Slide 15.
Our outlook for 2013 core earnings is $1.375 billion to $1.475 billion which includes the impact of lower investment yields and the $260 million to $280 million decline in Talcott Resolution's earnings due to the continued shrinkage of the VA books and the sale of Individual Life and Retirement Plans.
In our P&amp;C and Group Benefits business we expect to see improvements in our accident year combined ratios before catastrophe losses based on the pricing and underwriting margins we have achieved in 2012 which we expect to continue into 2013.
In P&amp;C Commercial our outlook calls for a 92.5% to 95.5% combined ratio compared with the 96.6% actual in 2012.
The Consumer Markets outlook is 89.5% to 92.5% compared with 90.8% in 2012.
Keep in mind that we've increased the budgeted CAT loads for both Commercial Markets and Consumer Markets in 2013 as compared to 2012.
In Group Benefits our loss ratio outlook is 77% to 80% compared with the 79.5% in 2012.
We expect a mid- to high teens increase in core earnings as the impact of our pricing and underwriting initiatives flow through an additional year of earned premium.
Doug will talk about this in a minute.
On a consolidated basis our outlook assumes that corporate core losses decline by approximately $40 million in 2013 reflecting the sale of Woodbury and the reduced reduction of interest expense although actual amounts will depend on debt repayment timing and results.
We'll update you on our progress on the debt plan as it is completed.
With respect to the share repurchase program we plan to be active each quarter and we will start buying back shares once the 10-K is filed.
Finally I'd like to briefly review first quarter expectations.
Our current outlook is for core earnings of $0.75 to $0.80 per diluted share including budgeted CATs of $57 million after tax.
The first quarter is normally a light CAT quarter and so far that trend is holding.
This amount does not include restructuring and other costs which we expect to be in the range of $15 million to $20 million after tax.
We expect to report first quarter earnings in the last week of April and as Liam mentioned we look forward to seeing you in April for a financial and risk review of Talcott Resolution.
A formal invitation will be sent out soon but we will have that meeting on April 11 here at our Hartford campus.
To wrap up we ended 2012 with significant accomplishments and we begin 2013 with momentum.
We are focused on continuing our transformation of The Hartford by strengthening profit margins and improving operating efficiencies and we have a balance sheet with increased capital flexibility.
Finally we are preparing to launch our capital management plan.
I'll now turn the call over to Doug to talk about the P&amp;C Commercial and Group Benefits results and outlook.
Doug? Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
I'm going to cover our P&amp;C Commercial and Group Benefits results for the fourth quarter and full year 2012.
I'll also provide some commentary on the marketplace and our 2013 business objectives and outlook.
The P&amp;C Commercial segment made strong pricing progress during 2012 including a very solid fourth quarter.
We're confident that our end-market actions are driving improvement in our underwriting margins.
And while these actions put pressure on our new business and retentions our continuously improving risk analytics convince us that we're making the right tradeoffs on a daily basis.
Our all-in combined ratio for the year was 102.9% a decrease of 1.7 points from the 104.6% in 2011.
This margin improvement reflects our focus on pricing and targeted underwriting actions as well as lower unfavorable prior year development versus 2011.
I'll cover each of these shortly.
Catastrophes were a major contributor to losses during the fourth quarter due almost entirely to Storm Sandy.
Current accident year CATs were 5.2 points on the full year 2012 combined ratio which coincidentally is the same as 2011.
For the year CATs totaled $325 million pretax with Storm Sandy contributing $207 million in the fourth quarter.
Excluding prior year development and catastrophes the combined ratio on P&amp;C Commercial improved to 96.6% for the year down slightly compared to 97.3% in 2011.
Our fourth quarter results further highlight the significant improvements we're seeing and the depth and speed of our actions since a year ago.
The ex CAT ex prior year combined ratio for the quarter was 97.8% versus 101.1% for the prior year period a solid improvement.
Our cumulative rate change in Middle Market over the last 6 quarters positions us among the more aggressive companies in the industry and sets us up well for margin improvement in 2013.
On an ex CAT basis only the fourth quarter combined ratio was 98.9% versus 107.8% for the same period in 2011.
Last year's fourth quarter included significant prior year reserve development in our workers' compensation line.
Our pricing and underwriting actions have taken hold and are now beginning to earn through to the bottom line.
We continue to refine our reserve position as we evaluate new data to make sure that we're on top of our indications.
We see current actions very much as business as usual compared to last year's more significant prior and current accident year adjustments.
Unfavorable prior year development for the quarter was $18 million while full year was $72 million pretaxed.
Both numbers compare favorably with 2011 actions.
Workers' compensation and auto liability were the primary drivers of loss development while our general liability lines continued to release favorable news.
We achieved margin improvement across most lines of business but with a more intense focus on Middle Market worker's compensation.
In this line we achieved 15 points of written price increases for the fourth quarter and 14 points for the full year.
Using our risk analytical tools we aggressively managed our mix of business as well to retain our better performing accounts while shedding our least performing increasing margins overall.
Middle Market results which are heavily influenced by our workers' compensation book of business improved 3.6 points in 2012 to a full year combined ratio ex CAT ex prior of 99.3%.
Still more work to be done but terrific progress.
Another area for us of focus was in Middle Market has been the expansion of our property line.
Despite the increased CAT losses over the last several years we continue to see property as a strategic opportunity balancing our portfolio and providing us an account-based value proposition to our agents and customers.
David Carter who joined us in late 2011 and our property team spent a good part of the year refining our property underwriting approach updating our pricing and coverage and driving the enhanced offering throughout our frontline organization.
As you may recall at our December 2011 Investor Day I talked about our long-term goal of moving property premiums from about 10% of our Middle Market commercial book to closer to 20% over time.
We've made major strides to set the foundation for this change.
This year our new business writings in property were up nearly 28% and the total combined ratio for our property line was down more than 14 points.
Our Small Commercial segment had another strong year in 2012.
As an aside our Small Commercial business has now posted a combined ratio over 120-plus years and even with the weather events of 2012 that record remains intact.
Workers' compensation in Small Commercial has performed extremely well over these years.
However this book of business while still providing strong returns has experienced margin compression in 2012 driven by not only the economic downturn but also some class and territorial factors.
We've been aggressive in taking corrective actions.
Written pricing was 6% for the full year and nearly 8% for the fourth quarter double our targets just 12 months ago.
We've adjusted our appetite in certain industry classes and implemented rigorous underwriting standards.
2012 also presented some challenging trends in auto liability for our Small Commercial segment.
Similarity we're addressing these trends with rate increases and tightening underwriting standards as well.
Even with these headwinds Small Commercial posted a 2012 full year ex CAT ex prior year combined ratio of 91.1%.
A strong result but not quite at the 89.5% we achieved in 2011.
For the quarter the Small Commercial combined ratio ex CAT ex prior was essentially flat at 92.8%.
In specialty national casualty had an outstanding year with double-digit growth on both the top and bottom line.
Our program in captive area had mix results with some fine tuning occurring on underperforming accounts and implementation of tighter underwriting standards for our auto liability programs.
Efforts to reposition our financial products business continue to be successful as we become a more Middle-Market focused insurer driven less by the Fortune 500 and large financial institution segments.
Now let's turn back to overall P&amp;C Commercial.
Written premium was up 1 point in 2012 which is in line with our expectations and consistent with the pricing and underwriting actions we took during the year.
While policy retentions held up well at 83% in Small Commercial and 77% in Middle Market new business premium was down 8% and 21% respectively consistent with our margin objectives.
We're very comfortable with this tradeoff and we'll continue to balance retention new business and pricing to improve margins in 2013.
Turning to 2013 overall our goals remain consistent with 2012 continued focus on margin improvement drive greater product diversification in property and general liability and build on our momentum across the business portfolio.
We expect flat to modest growth in net written premiums across our Standard Commercial lines in 2013 as we continue to balance underwriting pricing retention on our renewal book and exercise discipline in our new business efforts.
In specialty commercial we expect the top line to decline by 7% to 10% as we continue to streamline our programs business and adjust the mix of our D&amp;O book.
We expect to see further improvement in underwriting results in 2013 as we continue to earn in 2012 rate increases and focus on overall profitability.
Our current outlook is for our 2013 ex CAT ex prior year combined ratio range of 92.5% to 95.5% compared to 96.6% in 2012.
Offsetting some of the improvement in underwriting results is the increase in CAT load that Chris mentioned.
In P&amp;C Commercial our 2012 CAT budget was 1.9 points but the actual results were 5.2.
We are raising our CAT budget assumption to 2.5 points in 2013 reflecting higher loss assumptions as well as the expected growth of our property business.
Let me now turn to our Group Benefits segment which ended the year on a high note with core earnings of $39 million in the quarter.
As you know we've been focused on improving the margins of this book of business for about 2 years now through rate increases underwriting discipline and overall improvement in our sold price to guide on new and renewal business.
Given the multi-year contract terms and long-term disability incident rates that remain at elevated levels we still have work remaining to return our performance to more acceptable levels.
However we are pleased with progress to date and believe our actions are beginning to pay off.
In 2012 Group Benefits core earnings were $101 million up 17% over 2011.
The improvement has been driven by our pricing actions on both STD and LTD as well as improving claim trends on our disability business.
High unemployment levels continue to put pressure on disability experience.
However we're confident that our actions address margin challenges we face and any improvement in the U.S.
economy will add momentum to our efforts.
Our disciplined rate actions have impacted the top line of this business declining by 7% in 2012.
We are intently watching the balance between renewal rate actions and persistency as well as new business pricing and close rates as we continue to target improved profit margins.
Although our core margins improved during 2012 to 2.4% from 1.9% in '11 we're still not at target levels of performance.
We had a very strong fourth quarter with earnings of $39 million.
Adjusting for favorable disability seasonality and a onetime expense benefit we ended the year at a quarterly run rate more in the $30 million range still very solid.
We have more work ahead but I'm encouraged that we're starting to see a more rational marketplace and confident we're taking appropriate steps to drive continued improvement in our performance.
Turning to 2013 for Group Benefits we expect the top line to continue to decline.
The early 2013 pricing view is extremely positive with rates increasing in the 15% to 18% range for long-term disability.
However we did not renew our largest account effective January 1 after being unable to agree on terms and have not renewed a segment of our program business.
These 2 decisions will contribute to an overall top line decline in 2013 of approximately 10% to 15% but will have minimal impact on our bottom line performance.
In fact we expect core earnings growth in the mid- to high teens despite the top line decline.
Improved disability results both STD and LTD will be the primary driver between -- behind our 2013 earnings growth.
Overall we think the loss ratio in 2013 will be in the range of 77% to 80% compared with 79.5% in 2012.
Taken together I'm very proud of the work our Commercial Markets team has done in the past year.
We have improved alignment and accountability across our Property &amp; Casualty divisions.
We have made seamless leadership changes in 3 of our 4 divisions all while continuing to build momentum in the market.
Our outstanding claim operation continues to be a market leader.
And we dealt with 2 years of significant CAT activity but kept our focus on the fundamental blocking and tackling needed to improve P&amp;C Commercial and Group Benefits results.
That focus will remain unchanged and we expect you'll see a continued progress in 2013.
I'll now turn the call over to Andy Napoli.
Thanks Doug.
2012 was a year of significant progress for Consumer Markets in which we improved profitability and established the foundation for a return to growth in 2013.
Our financial results for the fourth quarter and the full year were strong and demonstrate the effectiveness of our strategy.
In 2011 and into 2012 our primary focus was restoring profitability to auto and homeowners in both our AARP Direct and the Agency channels.
In 2010 and 2011 we were willing to accept decreases in retention in new business levels as we implemented above-market rate increases across the board.
As our margins improved our pricing moderated and we saw retention and new business begin to recover nicely in 2012.
Now let's shift to our fourth quarter results.
Both auto and homeowners were significantly impacted by Storm Sandy as current accident year catastrophes accounted for 13.8 combined ratio points in the quarter.
Excluding CATs and prior year development our combined ratio improved to 90.0% in the fourth quarter a 2.4-point improvement from last year a result we're very pleased with.
In homeowners the improvement was driven by strong earned pricing coupled with favorable non-CAT weather frequency.
Homeowners loss costs also dropped in the quarter due to lower severity of fire losses.
Auto margins also improved driven by earned pricing increases and favorable liability frequency.
The physical damage severity trend increases that began in the second half of 2011 appeared to have leveled off increasing only slightly in the fourth quarter.
In the quarter written premium was flat over last year.
Auto policy retention improved to 86% up 3 points over last year and 1 point sequentially.
Homeowners improved as well up 4 points from last year and 1 point sequentially.
Auto new business was flat to last year while homeowners was up 30% which was driven by the rollout of our Hartford Home Advantage product most significantly in California where we have very favorable margins.
Now let's shift to Consumer's full year results.
Our combined ratio improved about 4 points to 97.4% driven by an almost 19-point improvement in homeowners which ended the year at 97.0% a nice improvement but still work to do to achieve its target.
The combined ratio for auto deteriorated slightly from 2011 finishing at 97.6%.
This was largely due to the trend of higher physical damage severity that has since made it into our pricing models.
I'd like to note that these results combined AARP Direct and Agency.
AARP auto is performing better and finished near its combined ratio target reflecting favorable loss experience inherent with this preferred customer segment.
Shifting to growth for the full year we continued to drive new business in our AARP Agency channel.
We grew written premium in AARP Agency by $64 million or 89% authorizing more than 6 400 agents to write the AARP product.
As mentioned previously a more -- a majority of AARP members prefer to shop for their insurance through a local agent.
And with our AARP auto and home programs now in market across the country we continue to be very excited about the upside potential of this channel.
Top line trends for AARP Direct have also improved dramatically from a year ago benefiting from a 2-point lift in both auto and homeowners policy retention along with improvements in overall marketing effectiveness.
We're growing top line in markets where we expect to be profitable and AARP members across both channels now accounts for 78% of total written premium up from 72% 3 years ago.
Now let's move to our 2013 outlook.
In 2013 we expect to return to total written premium growth with an estimate of flat to plus 2% driven by growth in both AARP Agency and AARP Direct.
Growth in AARP Agency will be driven by more deeply engaging our authorized AARP agents as they capitalize on the value proposition offered by The Hartford and the AARP brand.
Within AARP Direct we expect strong new business growth and further improvement in premium retention as we continue to take mid-single-digit written pricing increases in auto and high single-digit written pricing increases in homeowners.
In both auto and homeowners pricing is being taken to stay ahead of loss cost trends in such a way to achieve or maintain our combined ratio targets.
In terms of auto profitability we expect an additional point of ex CAT current accident year improvement in 2013.
We believe auto frequency will continue to be favorable and that auto severity both in bodily injury and auto physical damage will be moderate.
For homeowners it's important to note that non-CAT weather frequency in 2012 was much better than the historical average and we expect non-CAT weather loss cost to revert to a more typical level in 2013.
Thus even though we're taking written rate increases in excess of loss cost trends our outlook calls for a slightly higher ex CAT loss ratio for homeowners in 2013.
We expect written pricing increases for homeowners will be a bit higher in 2013 as our rate indications reflect higher CAT loads after several years of damaging tornado and hail events.
In addition to pricing we've taken action to mitigate risk in homeowners instituting higher win deductibles and introducing roof value schedules that adjust the claim payout based on the age of the roof.
All in we expect the combined ratio before catastrophes and prior development to fall within a range of 89.5% to 92.5%.
In closing we're very pleased with the results in Consumer Markets for 2012 and our ability to improve profitability while positioning the division for growth in targeted markets in 2013 and we began the year with positive momentum and focused execution.
I'll now turn the call back over to Liam.
Thanks Andy.
Thanks to Doug and Chris as well.
As you heard from our comments this was a good quarter for The Hartford and a strong end to a transformational year and we all feel very good about our progress in the ongoing businesses.
So operator let's turn it now over to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Tom Gallagher with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> My first question is just on the earnings guidance.
I guess for Chris can you just remind us the -- how much of a back-end loading we should expect to get from the expense savings here? Maybe if you can frame it in the way of how are we going to start out in 1Q where are we going to be by 4Q in terms of the bottom line benefit of cost saves? That's my first question.
Sure.
Happy to Tom.
I think just to remind everyone we had an $850 million total plan and we think about $500 million is already out with the transactions plus cuts we made at the end of 2012.
We have $285 million to take out this year.
I would say that it is more back-ended because there is a little bit of an expense drag in the first couple quarters primarily.
So it's hard to slope precisely but I would make -- weight more the expense saves.
It will start to come out in the second half for the year.
Research Division</strong> So Chris that -- the $285 million is that from now to the end of the year? That's going to be the bottom line pretax benefit that we would expect to see by the end of 4Q? Tom those are the gross saves that we need to achieve that we set for ourselves in essence to make up for the lost revenue.
So I don't think of it as all dropping to the bottom line or a very little dropping to the bottom line in fact because those are -- revenues and expenses have gone away and that is the corporate overhead we need to cut in essence to maintain our existing revenue streams.
Now there is an incremental goal.
In there you have about a written [ph] $80 million that will improve margins overall.
But the vast majority was to cut our overhead expenses in relation to revenues that are going away.
Research Division</strong> Yes understood Chris.
I just wanted to make sure because I know you're going to lose the associated revenues in 1Q but that you would expect to essentially get that back by the end of 2013.
Is that the way we should be thinking about it? Liam addressed this...
Yes about 90% of the stranded costs Tom that were not transferred to the buyers will be out by the end of this calendar year the other 10% will come out early in the first quarter.
And then and I will -- I want to be very clear on this.
We have this down to the dollar to the head.
We know exactly where it's coming from.
We have a very disciplined plan.
Yes this will occur.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that.
So the -- just moving on to the net amount of risk improvement in Japan.
I just want to understand from your standpoint what does this practically mean for you? Because obviously when you see a reduction in net amount of risk of that magnitude from 3Q to now it's been cut more than half you would sort of assume that an associated liability would be going down pretty meaningfully and potential capital lift or capital getting freed up but then you have the complexity of money being tied up in captives here.
So anyway just I guess broad question what does this mean for you in terms of the yen weakening and the reduction in net amount of risk and the liability from a practical standpoint? Well clearly the high level and I'm sure Chris and Doug may have some -- their own perspectives Tom.
At a high level prima fascia the economics of the book have improved very significantly.
And as I commented I think the general market consensus is the yen as it relates to dollar and euro is likely worse case to stay where it is and perhaps even weaken further.
So the economics are better.
I think you're well aware that our hedging program is very dynamic.
And so as the yen weakens it enables us to take more risks if you will which gives us a greater upside.
And clearly as I commented and Chris reiterated in his remarks the improving economics should give us a greater ability to consider potential derisking transactions either to reduce the risk or permanently move the risk.
So I think from all those perspectives and ultimately as these things annuitize and if they annuitize at these kind of values over the next 4 years that's also attractive to us from an economic and cash flow perspective.
So I think we're quite encouraged by this.
I think that the magnitude of the reduction and the net amount of risk I think does give shareholders a view of -- with more normal yen-dollar yen-euro the economics are much more manageable for us.
Yes I think you're right on Liam.
And I think Tom also I think the April Investor Day the real intent is to dive deeper with Beth and her team into exactly some of those questions how we see these blocks running off policyholder behavior sensitivities more economic values.
So stay tuned.
But we'll try to be much more clear of why we think the net economics of these blocks are improving significantly as Liam said.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just my last follow-up on that is Chris you had mentioned the annual cash spend on hedging has gone from $200 million to $250 million to $75 million to $100 million.
Is that mainly the currency hedge getting -- being able to hedge less it's -- or it's cheaper or is that not related to the currency? Not related to the currency.
That reference I thought the words that I used were macro hedged.
So as the macro equity protection that -- with Bob Rupp and the team we just made much more economics virtually for the same amount of coverage.
So we cheapened up that program and the risk management techniques of managing Japan is still our dynamic program where we manage interest rates currency and equity dynamically.
Research Division</strong> And I believe you had said you were spending $200 million on a currency hedge or so annually is that still about the same? No never talked in those terms Tom.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And any guidance you can give us on what you're spending on currency hedges for Japan? Again I think we could give you general views but we'd like to spend a little bit more time with you in April -- so we save that for April and we could be more scenario specific and then you could see the effects of the hedging programs and the economics that emerge.
Tom this is Liam.
Just one final comment I make.
I think the ability to purchase effectively the same protection on our macro hedge at half or less of our historic cost I hope it is an indication to investors on how far along our risk management has come in the last year.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Liam I'm very glad to hear you're feeling better as I'm sure everyone else is.
Thank you Jay.
Very kind of you.
I feel -- I actually feel great and very blessed.
Research Division</strong> Glad to hear it.
With regard to the capital deployment the proceeds from the sale of the units was around $2.2 billion and it appears currently around $1.5 billion of that is being deployed into debt repurchase and share buybacks.
So I think what a lot of people are wondering is why hold back the $700 million? Well you're correct Jay that first of all we presented management and the board's capital management plan and work collaboratively with our regulators and we're gratified that they approved the plan that we presented to them.
I'll just go back to the concept which I think I've been very consistent about over the last 3 quarters is first of all we are going to do share repurchases the $0.5 billion that we have outlined which clearly will be accretive for shareholders.
Second of all we will reduce the holding company debt by $1 billion.
A couple of additional perspectives as I make on that.
First of all as you recall The Hartford during the financial crisis significantly levered up number one.
Second of all the foregone earnings from the sold businesses require us to delever a little bit.
And third we do want we've said all along that we want to be more of a P&amp;C centric a leading P&amp;C-oriented company and we want to get our leverage down as Chris and I both said in the low 20s and our debt service coverage up in that 5 to 6 range also accretive for shareholders.
$55 million reduction in our interest cost as well.
I've always been clear that it was likely that we were going to preserve capital in our life subsidiaries which I think is even more important now with the improving markets that we just discussed with Tom when transactions whether it'd be customer offers either in the U.S.
or Japan potential permanent transactions or other risk reduction transactions may be more available and we want to be ready to act as soon as those things present themselves.
So I think this is a very thoughtful balanced plan.
It is very friendly to shareholders.
And that third element of being able to either reduce or permanently eliminate VA liabilities is also very good for shareholders.
I think you'd agree.
So I think it's thoughtful it's balanced.
We feel very good about it.
And I remind you as I said I think Chris alluded to it our intention particularly with the historic capital generating ability of our go-forward businesses as well as what we expect will be some success reducing or permanently eliminating VA liabilities of these market values our intention is to continue to have a consistent capital management approach of returning excess capital as appropriate to our shareholders.
But this is our plan now for '13 and '14 and we feel good about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On the variable annuity guarantee exposure last night as I'm sure you saw Berkshire Hathaway announced a deal with Cigna to reinsure the remainder of those guaranteed minimum benefits.
Would something like that have an attraction to Hartford as well knowing that already a good portion of it is -- of that exposure is reinsured? Well at a high level Beth may have some comments.
I would say first of all obviously I can't comment on conversations we may or may not be having for obvious reasons.
What I can assure you of particularly with the capital flexibility and I think more normal market scenario we have today Beth and her team are leaving no stone unturned in terms of ways to move the risk off or reduce the risk which very well could include transactions.
Beth anything you'd like to add? Yes I think Liam has said it very well.
He said from the beginning that we are open to looking at transactions where they make sense so we're -- our view of the underlying economics are there and we can maximize the use of our resources and our capital to reduce our risk.
So we continue to work with our advisers and we'll continue to evaluate opportunities in that space.
I think seeing transactions getting done seeing different players that are interested in these exposures I think is all positive for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick one for Chris or Sabra.
The corporate expense in 2013 that's going to -- I believe you said $40 million less.
Is that $40 million less than the $315 million that was the full year 2012 core corporate impact? Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Let me echo Jay's comments.
Liam I'm very happy to hear you're in good health.
A couple -- just one quick follow-up on Tom's question about the expense saves or cuts.
I just wanted to clarify.
So should we think about $285 million as the total expense saved for all of 2013 and should we think about that as a run rate by the fourth quarter? So something like $70-or-so million by the fourth quarter? No.
That -- you think about that as the actual cuts that will happen in 2013 so that's a run rate reduction that will be achieved by the end of '13.
John our commitment was -- we've all been associated with selling businesses and not getting the costs out.
Our commitment was we're going to get all the costs out and so we're -- that's why we've been so clear about it.
And again I'll reiterate we're very disciplined about it in the company.
Those -- this will be a cost neutral exercise at the end of the day.
Research Division</strong> Fully appreciate that.
The guidance for 2013 what -- if you could give us sort of a modest ROE range what type of ROE are you expecting to achieve? John I think at a high level we're going to give you some more details in ROE in April.
I think '13 is a year where if we see ROE increase it will be very modest.
The real increase in ROE is going to occur in '14  -- in '14 and 15.
We'll show you that.
You should expect pretty significant increases in ROE in '14 and '15.
But with all the moving parts the kick-in over time of the capital management actions the loss of the earnings and as Chris said a bit of a lag in getting the costs out and we've increased our CAT load as well.
I think '13 is a year where if we see ROE increase it will be modest.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally.
Given all the shifts in capital in the life side in particular reflecting the business unit divestitures the dividend et cetera is it fair for us to assume that the vast majority of what's remaining pro forma at $6.6 billion or $6.7 billion of life statutory capital relates to the runoff U.S.
VA business? Or is there something else still remaining in there the Group Benefits business or other? John I think you're right.
We tried to talk about this the last time.
We think of sort of $6.6 billion as the new beginning normal $4 billion for the life statutory surplus.
Of that approximately $1.5 billion it would be I'll call it allocated to Group Benefits and there's a little bit allocated to the reinsurance sort of recoverables from our transaction.
So that's how we think about it.
And then we have obviously the holding company liquidity also.
But from a statutory bluebook side that's how we think about it.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Finkelstein with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> I've got a few.
I guess my first question kind of back to Gallagher's question a little bit.
And maybe the way I'll frame it out is back in -- what was it October of 2011 you gave some scenarios around the Japan block and kind of a benign scenario as well as a kind of an adverse scenario.
The question I would ask is when you look at where things are today the yen kind of JPY 93 market is higher et cetera should we expect a meaningful improvement in that net cashflow in that benign scenario in the Japan block? It's a definition of meaningful.
It is improved and I would say particularly if the trend continues it can be meaningful.
But it is a definite improvement and again something we could talk more about in April and we plan to.
So if you could let us update our complete models and present them to you I think that would be very helpful.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Chris just how do we think about statutory capital generation in the life company going forward? Obviously you've had some expenses in annuities markets are a tailwind you've got Group Benefits improvements.
I mean how should we think about free cash generation in the life business? I'm more positive on it particularly at these market levels and condition.
You've always heard us talk about the low interest rates and sort of the constraints that that has and some of the additional liabilities we put up at the end of the year.
But I would say there's more tailwind mark to have a modest expansion in statutory surplus going forward in '13.
Beyond that a lot depends just on market conditions and policyholder behavior.
But I'm encouraged with the potential to do increase in gross surplus in 2013.
Research Division</strong> I guess just a follow-up on that.
I mean just if things kind of trended from here the way you would ordinarily expect them or how you normally model them would you expect the VA business to generate capital in '13? Yes.
I would say I'm not hesitating I'm just trying to quantify it from a range.
I mean it's in the range of a couple hundred million we could generate from the VA book over time.
And then I'd remind you that the life -- the Group Benefit operations are also in there but we do have some interest sensitive liabilities that will still feel some pressure from interest rates.
So I'm trying to be balanced on the positives but still the existing pressure on certain blocks of business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one quick final question is I saw the cut in the macro hedge costs more than in half.
Are there any changes in how we should think about the below the line kind of structural loss on the dynamic hedge which I think historically has been around 15 bps? Or is that about the same going forward? On the dynamic program was your question or the macro? Research Division</strong> No you told us the macro I'm thinking more about the dynamic.
Right.
The dynamic for both pieces Japan and I'll call it the U.S.
I would say are generally remain consistent.
And we've talked generally about it in total about 40 bps for both programs.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But the macros -- I assume the macro is much lower than the 25 that you've historically talked about is that wrong? The macro we just said was $75 million to $100 million in annual spend.
I mean I think you could do the translation which less is coming down.
But the dynamic program for the U.S.
VA block and the Japan block still is in -- around 40 bps.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Meredith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions here.
First with respect to the capital management one quick question Chris.
You've got like I guess $520 million of debt coming due over the next 2 years.
How do you plan on dealing with the remaining $40 million? Do you have any call provisions in any of your debt? Or will you have to go into the marketplace and buy it? I'd rather not be too specific.
It really involves a tender process.
So we're going to be active here in the near term but we are looking at trying to reduce that debt that ultimately is NPV positive compared to any premium that we might pay.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So in the $1 billion -- the $1 billion is a part reduction right so it could cost you a little more than $1 billion to actually reduce it? Yes.
So the $520 million is the component of the $1 billion and then the rest would come to reducing the amount that we will tender for.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then the next question I'm just curious to know you've kind of carried [ph] by this how did you come up with the $500 million of share buyback by year-end '14 particularly given the additional liquidity you've got the holding company and the capital generation you'll have over the next 2 years which should be pretty substantial? I think I'll just go back to what I said.
We're really working -- management working with our board.
I believe this is the most prudent balanced approach.
All 3 elements of it are very accretive for shareholders.
And for the reasons that I noted both the amount of leverage that the company added during the crisis the earnings loss from the sold businesses and our desire to get a balance sheet that is consistent with our go-forward strategy of being a P&amp;C-centric company as Chris -- I think as Chris has noted the $1 billion was the right number.
We thought $0.5 billion was the appropriate number for buybacks.
I think as Chris has said we'll be pretty methodical about that.
And then lastly I think for reasons that should be even more apparent now preserving incremental capital in the life subsidiaries to potentially do the most accretive thing which is to either reduce or eliminate VA and particularly Japan VA risk we thought was a really good balance and as I said earlier I feel really good about the plan.
And then I'd reiterate for the reasons that I said earlier we -- Chris and I intend to have a consistent capital management approach of returning excess capital as appropriate to shareholders going forward once this plan is complete.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a quick question with respect to the specialty business Doug it was -- wonder if you could tell a little bit about what needs to be done to really improve the profitability there.
Is it a pricing issue? Is it a risk selection issue? And how quickly do we think we can get those underlying combines down into call it mid-90s area where they probably need to be? Yes good question Brian.
And let me just give you some context.
I think this will help all of you think through this.
Inside our specialty businesses we really have 4 businesses.
We've got our national account business which largely is an excess -- casualty excess workers' comp line.
In the program captive area we have some dollar 1 programs but we also have pretty significant excess casualty programs in there as well.
And then obviously we have our D&amp;O financial products business.
When you look at the 4 businesses 2 of those businesses have target combined ratios for our levels excess 100% right? So we have a mixed component of businesses in there.
Our national account casualty business for returns in the teens has target combined ratios in excess of 107% to 110%.
So when you look at combined ratio you can't just think of specialty as okay where is my D&amp;O book running? So I give you that as an outdrop.
Number two our national account book had a terrific 2012.
We're very satisfied with our returns.
We feel good about that book.
And as I've mentioned we have work right now underway inside our program and excess program captive group as well.
And last but not the least our D&amp;O book needs work just as others in the industry would describe as well.
So we are attempting to achieve rate.
Our rate incline so far for 2012 fourth quarter in the mid single-digits but we're not satisfied yet with our combined ratio performance in our professional practice.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First on the workers' comp obviously you had a little bit of adverse development not that much but still it is kind of an ongoing drag.
And I'm wondering if you could talk about what's happening from a claim standpoint.
You had talked about frequency popping up I guess about 1.5 years ago.
What are you seeing these days? Jay this is Doug.
You're right.
We have worked hard at our workers' comp book both actions in the marketplace and also books and records relative to reserving.
I would say this in terms of frequency severity.
Our frequency has really settled down very well in our Middle Market based on the actions and drivers that we've taken over the last 5 or 6 quarters.
We're seeing a little bit of continued frequency in Small Commercial.
I think we've got our focus around a few key programs that's driving it and a little bit on the geography side but what -- we have started to take steps to address it and that's where that margin pressure has come from in small albeit very very solid returns still in that small arena.
So I feel like comparing where we were 12 months ago to where we are today I feel so much better about our comp progress.
More work ahead but significant strides in the last 12 months.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then on the -- just the buyback portion of the capital plan.
I could see over time why you would want to be consistent in your buyback activities if it's based on earnings.
But in this case it seems to me you've got capital free and clear it's at the holding company you don't need it.
Why wait 2 years to return a relatively modest amount of capital to shareholders when doing it quicker would be even more accretive if in fact it is free and clear? Jay it's Chris.
Thank you for your perspective.
I think as Liam said we do feel good with the overall plan on debt and equity the priorities and sort of the amounts that we're starting with.
Consistency portion is important to us.
I think to your specific point I think you just need to keep in context that we're still managing large risk positions in our runoff block.
And so we're looking...
Research Division</strong> You have capital in the runoff business to handle that.
Yes but we're still managing to stress scenarios.
That would indicate that we still need to move capital and liquidity around the organization if those stress scenarios emerge.
So I understand your perspective when you see it.
But when you stress the organization the way we share with the regulators and the rating agencies the plan that we adopted is still the prudent one for 2013 and as we head into 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could ask one last question I don't want to overstep my bounds here.
But you have seen 2 other transactions where runoff businesses have been eliminated or sold to another party.
What makes your runoff business different than Sun Life or Cigna's that makes it more of a challenge for you to complete a similar transaction? Well Jay I think that's a big leap to assume that's the case.
Just because we haven't done one it doesn't mean it's more or less challenging than those that have been done number one.
We certainly are well aware of the unique characteristics of certainly the Sun Life transaction have been done for a while and what we've learned of the Cigna transaction.
And again I don't think it's appropriate for us to talk about the nature of discussions that we may be having.
So what I can say is what I think Chris and I and Beth have said pretty repeatedly as you can assume we're talking to the parties we should be talking to or the advisers we should be talking to and if there's a transaction that makes sense for us and for shareholders we'll do it.
Research Division</strong> So there's nothing specific about your business that really prevents you from engaging in such a transaction? I think there are nuances and idiosyncrasies to every book.
But at a -- in a general sense no.
Jay I would add a little color that -- and Liam's right.
I mean we're -- Beth and the team are very proactive.
But as we've talked about it the book really has 3 components Japan VA U.S.
VA and a big fixed block of annuities.
Those characteristics are different so there isn't going to be one holistic transaction that just sort of says yes here it is.
I think structurally we have some short-term limitations given that we write the Group Benefits business in life legal entities.
And if you look at the deal besides the Cigna deal that you referenced those involved legal entities where acquirers wanted legal entities and structures to absorb.
We can't do a legal entity deal right now until we deal with the Group Benefit business and where it's being written.
So there are some short-term constraints.
But over the long-term you ought to think in terms of what we're thinking along those 3 blocks in trying to have buyers that have appetite for Japanese exposures U.S.
VA exposures and fixed annuity exposures here in the U.S.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Bass with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> So first question can you just talk a little bit about how much capital do you expect the core ongoing business kind of x the runoff to generate in 2013? Erik I would estimate that the core P&amp;C business would generate about $900 million of statutory surplus.
I would estimate that the Group Benefits business would generate approximately $100 million to $125 million.
And then what we did with our life Mutual Funds operations moved it up to the life holding company.
I would say that the cash-based earnings that we could have access to thereabout $75 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And then just one follow-up on -- Chris I guess on the point you are just making on kind of the moving of the Group Benefits business.
If you could talk a little bit about maybe what that process is and then any other actions you're taking within kind of the U.S.
life subs to isolate and consolidate the variable annuity blocks and maybe a timeline for potentially completing this.
I think what I would just like to share Erik is that the Group Benefits business is strategically important to us.
It's written in 2 life legal entities currently and we're figuring out what is the right structure going forward.
So there isn't anything sort of an aha here.
This is just what legal entity are we going to use to write Group Benefits.
And we're going to align it to Doug and his management team going forward.
It's just as simple as that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the annuity side.
The Japan block is standalone but the I think the other -- the U.S.
piece is in -- is it 3 different entities currently? Yes.
We have 3 different U.S.
legal entities that write that.
And we're looking at obviously a lot of different strategies to how to manage legal entities and books of business over the long term.
But once -- if we make any changes we'll let you know but we're always looking to how to be more efficient with our operating structures our hedging programs and long-term risk management.
Our last question comes from the line of Bob Glasspiegel with Langen McAlenney.
On the migration to becoming a Property-Casualty company when you grow up I mean you talked about the -- getting your debt in line with P&amp;C peers.
I'm curious on where the investment portfolio stands on that migration? And just looking at your BBB's are 26% your bigs [ph] are 5%.
You've got 3% in CDOs.
Travelers which is probably at one end of the spectrum is at 9% BBBs 3% junk and no CDOs.
You obviously needed to get your ROE higher to -- so there's a tension on that point.
So are you closer to using an AIG game plan of cranking up risk here on the margin? Or do you want to move more towards Travelers over time and how long would that take? Bob it's Chris.
I would say we're trying to have a prudent portfolio.
We probably favor a Travelers model long term.
There are some holdover and transitional issues as we migrate out of some of our life books and assets that were retained or transferred back to us that the buying parties didn't want to have.
So I think we'll balance all that out over the next couple of years here.
But I think Brion Johnson and his team at HIMCO have the appropriate mindset to run a P&amp;C and Group Benefit-orientated group going forward.
I would say again with that Group Benefit business there are longer duration liabilities that we need to continue to manage there similar to the workers' comp line.
So the component could be just slightly different but think more along the Travelers model long term.
So let's say a couple of years from now what do you think BBB's would be versus 26% today down a couple of points or down 5 to 10 or? Bob I'm just trying to get through this month and next month so I'm not really focusing on '14 yet where it's at.
But we'll see if maybe at Investor Day we can address that.
But I don't have a vision right now for you.
Thank you.
Thank you all for joining us today.
I know it's been a longer call than usual and we appreciate all your attention.
If you have any follow-up calls please reach out to the Investor Relations department.
And again I'd like to add my invitation to you all to join us on April 11 in Hartford for an Investor Day focused on Talcott Resolution.
Thank you all and have a great day.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Steve and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Hartford First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I'll now turn the conference over to Sabra Purtill Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Steve.
Good morning everyone and welcome.
Our speakers today include Liam McGee Chairman President and CEO; Doug Elliot President of Commercial Markets; Andy Napoli President of Consumer Markets; and Chris Swift Chief Financial Officer.
Other members of our executive management team are also present today and available for the Q&amp;A session including Beth Bombara President of Talcott Resolution; Jim Davey EVP of Mutual Funds; and Bob Rupp Chief Risk Officer.
As detailed on Page 2 of the presentation today's statements concerning future results or actions are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results may differ in a material manner from these statements.
In addition we do not assume any obligation to update the forward-looking statements.
Investors should consider the risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ.
Our press release 10-K 2012 -- or excuse me 10-Q 2012 10-K and other filings with the SEC contain a more detailed description of those risks and uncertainties.
Finally please note that our presentation today includes financial measures that are not derived from GAAP.
Definitions and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are provided in the Financial Supplement press release and 10-Q.
I'll now turn the call over to Liam.
Thank you Sabra.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today and I also want to give a special thanks to those of you who participated in our investor meeting.
And on behalf of the entire team we hope you found the information valuable.
As you know The Hartford delivered strong first quarter results.
Core earnings were $456 million up 7% over first quarter 2012 and we were particularly pleased that core earnings for the go-forward businesses property and casualty group benefits and mutual funds were up 19% over the prior year.
The significant improvement is a result of the initiatives that Doug Andy and Jim and their teams have launched over the past 2 years.
We've been successfully executing our plans and I do want to take a moment to highlight some key accomplishments.
We're making good progress expanding margins in P&amp;C Commercial.
Market conditions have been conducive to our pricing and risk management actions and our day-to-day execution is showing up in the results.
I'm also encouraged by our early success in driving greater product diversification.
Now Doug will talk about this shortly as we are seeing stronger new business production in general liability and property and I believe we will ultimately achieve a better balance among all our commercial P&amp;C lines of business.
I am pleased that Group Benefits core earnings are beginning to recover and optimistic that operating trends are improving.
The benefits of our pricing and underwriting initiatives are clearly paying off with improving margins and we are continuing to make the right decisions to balance new sales persistency and pricing.
We still have another round of multi-year contract renewals in early 2014 to bring the overall profitability of the book in line with our targets.
Going forward we see opportunities for growth in new sales but will do so only with appropriate pricing and profitability.
Consumer Markets also continued to make strides improving profitability while returning to written premium growth for the first time since 2009.
The actions Andy and his team have taken over the last 2 years to reposition the book are bearing fruit and I'm pleased with the results including sequential growth in policies enforced a result we have not seen since 2008.
Finally we're adding profitable new business by leveraging our valuable partnership with AARP.
Jim Davey and his team have reenergized the Mutual Funds business and drove sales up 34% this quarter.
The business expanded product offerings and restructured its distribution team.
Fund performance also improved which helped increase sales and net flows were the best they have been since the first quarter of 2011.
As we shared with you at our investor meeting the go-forward businesses have attractive returns with ROEs expected to be around 9.5% to 10% this year with our outlook for 2014 for these businesses at 10% to 10.5%.
Over the last 4 months we accomplished a great deal in the company's transformation and I am pleased that this team is establishing a successful track record of executing on our commitments to deliver greater value to shareholders.
First in January we closed the sales of Individual Life and Retirement Plans.
Second we completed a major portion of our capital management plan with the debt tender offers and senior note issuance.
We do not expect to repurchase any additional debt through 2014 beyond the '13 and '14 debt maturities.
We also started buying back shares under the existing share repurchase authorization.
Third we've significantly reduced the risk of the variable annuity block.
The expanded hedging program has effectively eliminated the currency and equity market risk in Japan.
The run-off of the block is continuing to accelerate.
The Enhanced Surrender Value or ESV offering take rate is higher than our original expectations and has continued to increase into April.
With improving market conditions the Japan VA surrender rate has significantly increased a trend that continued into the second quarter.
With our Talcott operations capital self-sufficient excess capital generated by the go-forward businesses will be used for potential capital management actions and reinvestment in our businesses to drive profitable growth.
Our capital flexibility has significantly improved and we are developing the next phase of our 2013 and 2014 capital management plans.
Thanks again for joining us and I'll now turn the call over to Doug for a discussion on Commercial Markets.
Doug? Thank you Liam and good morning everyone.
I will cover our P&amp;C Commercial and Group Benefits results for the first quarter of '13.
I'll also provide some commentary on the marketplace and several of our key business objectives.
At the top of that list of objectives is our focus on margin improvement which is clearly evident this quarter.
Before I dive into the mechanics of our quarter let me share a few overarching thoughts.
I'm very pleased with the sustained rate increases we're seeing broadly across our book.
Our written rate increases are exceeding loss cost trends in essentially every line of business in some cases significantly.
With the extended extreme weather pattern we seem to be in coupled with the sustained low interest rates for the foreseeable future I see the continued need to drive for further rate gains.
This month marks my second anniversary here at The Hartford.
I'm more excited than ever about our progress that the team is making in every area of commercial markets.
We are becoming a more balanced player across our product portfolio and more results-driven in our execution.
Our speed focus and intensity has increased significantly as we respond to macroeconomic forces as well as the ongoing shifts that regularly affect local markets around the country.
In short we're executing on the exact strategy I shared with you all at our December 2011 Investor Day.
With that as a backdrop let me review our first quarter results.
The P&amp;C Commercial segment continued a strong pricing momentum during the first quarter of 2013.
Our underwriting actions are driving improvement in margin performance and while these actions put pressure on our new business and retentions we're confident that we're making the right trade-offs on a risk-by-risk basis.
Our all-in combined ratio for the quarter was 94 a decrease of 5.7 points from the 99.7 in the first quarter of 2012.
This margin improvement reflects our focus on pricing and targeted underwriting actions as well as lower cats and prior year development versus 2012.
Our first quarter results further highlight the significant improvements we're seeing and the depth and speed of our actions since 1 year ago.
The x cat x prior year combined ratio for the quarter was 93.1 versus 96.4 for the prior year period a solid improvement.
Our cumulative rate change in the Middle Market over the last 6 quarters positions us for continued improvement in '13.
We achieved margin improvement across both our Small Commercial and Middle Market businesses.
Small Commercial combined ratios x cat x prior year improved to 89.2 from 91.8.
Our production measures were also solid in the quarter as policy retention remained steady at 82%.
Pricing in the quarter was strong at 8% consistent with the fourth quarter of 2012 and nearly double the same period 1 year ago.
We also wrote $134 million of new business in the quarter contributing to total written premium growth of 3%.
We're satisfied with this level of growth given the market conditions we see but expect to grow this segment more significantly over the mid- to long-term time horizon.
We have just initiated the rollout of our new spectrum or BOP quoting platform which now will complement our workers' compensation model rolled out last year.
The early reviews from agents are impressive and extremely encouraging.
The tool was built with speed and efficiency in mind and we're excited about what this will mean for increased flow from the thousands of agents we conduct business with every day.
The Middle Market also had a solid start to 2013 with a combined ratio of 95.8 x cat x prior year development.
This 95.8 was 3.4 points lower than the first quarter of '12.
Our pricing increases remain strong with first quarter pricing at 11% including workers' compensation and property in the low teens.
Although premium retentions are lower than historical levels they're driven primarily by workers' compensation which is running roughly 10 points lower than property general liability and auto.
The latter 3 lines are all running retentions in the high 70s not far from historical levels.
We continue to aggressively manage this positive shift in our risk profile and our margins are showing the benefit of these actions.
One further point for our discussion this morning.
At our Investor Day in December of 2011 I shared my outlook for a much more balanced product approach in our Middle Market.
Here are a few key snapshots that will demonstrate our progress on the objectives we set out to achieve.
In the first quarter of 2011 workers' compensation represented 60% of our Middle Market new business writings of $125 million.
In the first quarter of 2013 workers' compensation represented 31% of our new business writings of $97 million.
This outcome is a result of a plan designed in the second half of 2011 and executed every day since.
We like this balance and are very pleased with our progress across our packaged lines of business in the Middle Market recognizing that there's still work ahead for us.
Let me now shift over to provide some color on the results of our Specialty business which is comprised of 3 distinct units: National Accounts Financial Products and Programs.
Our combined ratio for the segment x cat and x prior year development was 98.9 4 points better than 2012.
However we did have reserve strengthening of 13 points in the quarter driving an unacceptable all-in combined ratio of 112.6.
National Accounts has been a great story throughout 2012 and this continued in the first quarter of 2013.
We focused on loss-sensitive accounts with premium and equivalents in the $1 million to $5 million range.
Here we're seeing very nice account growth in target industries with 15 new accounts in the first quarter of '13.
Our pricing models have been solid which coupled with our underwriting and claim capabilities have produced attractive returns.
Financial Products has undergone a significant retooling after emerging from the effects of the financial crisis.
We have successfully pulled back from the publicly traded financial institution space and we're selective with our approach in the large commercial D&amp;O sector and tightly controlling the risks where we offer full coverage.
We achieved a 6th consecutive quarter of positive rate gains with pricing of 4% in the quarter.
These actions have produced substantial improvement in our loss outcomes a major contributor to the improvement seen in the overall Specialty results.
The Programs unit is comprised of over 50 different group and agency captive and specialty programs.
Approximately 2/3 of these programs have performed consistently well over the years and current underwriting actions are in the normal course of managing this book of business.
The other 1/3 are undergoing more intensive reunderwriting or in a few cases shutting down.
Two of these programs account for the adverse development we posted in the first quarter of '13 representing $28 million of prior year strengthening $18 million and $10 million for workers' compensation and auto respectively.
Overall we believe we have excellent franchise value in the go-forward aspects of our Specialty business.
Aggressive actions have been taken to position these businesses for success and we're committed to the underwriting pricing and claim performance standards that we know drive results.
Let me now turn to our Group Benefits segment which started the year on a high note.
Core earnings of $30 million in the quarter $25 million more than 1 year ago are the result of after-tax margin improvement to 3.2% from 0.5% last year.
We're off to a solid start in '13.
As you know we've been focused on improving the margins of this business for about 2 years now through rate increases underwriting discipline and overall book management.
The total Group Benefits loss ratio was 77.4 in the quarter a 5.6-point reduction from 1 year ago with disability improved by 8.3 points.
Our long-term disability pricing in the mid-teens for the quarter continued to be very strong.
As expected and outlooked previously our first quarter premium was down compared to last year.
Three key drivers of this result include: first our continued commitment to pricing discipline on new and renewal business; second as I shared with you last quarter we were unable to agree on renewal terms with our largest account; and three a slight decline in our association business as we take action on certain segments of that book.
Again I think we're making appropriate trade-off decisions based on solid metrics and a balanced view of both the economy and the interest rate environment.
During the quarter we continued to strengthen our leadership team by hiring a very respected and seasoned Group Benefits player to lead our sales effort.
We're aggressively pursuing new business opportunities and the retention of existing accounts at appropriate economic terms.
We continue to retain well-priced accounts and generate new sales.
We believe that our discipline under the current market dynamics will position us most effectively for success as conditions evolve.
In summary we're confident we're turning the corner based on the actions we've driven in our book of business and our core margin improvement reflects that effort.
As I step back on the first quarter every commercial business had a solid start to 2013.
The momentum that started over 6 quarters ago continues to build and I'm pleased by the returns that our books are now generating.
There's plenty of work left but our forward momentum continues to grow every day.
Let me now turn the call over to Andy Napoli.
Thanks Doug.
Good morning.
The first quarter of 2013 marked an important milestone for consumer markets with a return to positive year-over-year written premium growth and a sequential increase in policies enforced for both auto and homeowners since the fourth quarter of 2012.
After improving profitability over the past 2 years we're in a great position to grow top line going forward.
We're pleased with our underwriting result in the first quarter as earned pricing has kept pace with loss cost in both auto and home and we benefited from lower expenses.
The return to top line growth with improving margins demonstrates the effective execution of our strategy.
The actions we took over the past couple of years to reposition consumer benefited results in 2012 and now carry forward into 2013 and we're pleased with the new business we're adding to our in-force book.
Since the moderation of written pricing increases in 2012 we continue to see a rebound in policy retention and sustained new business growth.
Importantly premium retention improved in the first quarter of 2013 when compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 demonstrating our ability to achieve needed rate increases without adversely impacting policy retention.
Now I'll address the specifics of our first quarter results starting with our results in aggregate.
Excluding cats and prior development our combined ratio improved slightly to 88.6 in the first quarter driven largely by greater expense efficiency.
Auto margins benefited from lower expenses while x cat current accident year loss costs for auto were relatively flat year-over-year.
Earned pricing increases and favorable liability frequency have offset moderately higher liability and physical damage severity.
We're pleased to see that physical damage severity has moderated significantly since the first half of 2012 but we'll continue to stay on top of expected loss trends.
In homeowners we benefited from favorable weather in the first quarter.
Current accident year catastrophes were $26 million in the quarter about half our budget and down from $39 million in the first quarter of 2012.
Likewise x cat homeowners losses benefited from favorable weather frequency especially as wind and hail events were suppressed by the colder temperatures in March.
Partially offsetting this favorability was an increase in water-related claims like frozen pipes which have higher severity.
While consumer markets core earnings for the quarter were strong at $73 million they were down year-over-year as we recognized $55 million of favorable prior year reserve development in the first quarter of 2012.
Now let's transition to growth.
First quarter written premium was up 2% over the prior year and we're pleased with this progress.
The growth was driven by a significant increase in premium retention 4 points in auto and 3 points in home since the first quarter of 2012.
New business grew 1% in auto and 20% in homeowners driven by higher conversion rates in AARP Direct and 67% growth in AARP Agency.
After last year's highly successful rollout of our new Home Advantage product growth in homeowners is beginning to moderate down sequentially from 30% in the fourth quarter.
A few comments regarding AARP Agency.
This initiative continues to be a valuable differentiator for us within the agency channel.
Our ability to bring AARP-branded marketing to agents has helped them grow by improving their ability to target a highly preferred personal lines customer segment.
Our issue rates for AARP member business significantly outperformed that of our non-AARP business and our strategy is all about helping our agents generate very productive leads and maximize this program.
We're seeing strong new business growth in a couple of larger states where we're comfortable with our returns including California and Illinois.
The rollout of our Home Advantage product in California and the introduction of a new agency channel pricing model in Illinois and other states have helped drive profitable growth.
Enhancements to agency auto pricing have improved our issue rates for individuals in the 35 to 55 age bracket helping us expand our underwriting sweet spot to include younger preferred segments.
On the other hand we have states where we're contracting new business most notably in Florida and New York where margins are challenged.
While we'd like to be growing and achieving our profit targets in all states there's a spectrum of results at the local level and we're being disciplined about achieving our combined ratio targets in all states and products.
Over the past few months several of you expressed interest in our telematics usage-based insurance program called TrueLane.
While still very new we're pleased with early results.
We have approximately 1 600 TrueLane policies in force across 12 states in all channels and expect the product to be in 15 states by the end of 2013.
TrueLane customers average a 10% discount and early loss experience results show that they are earning their discount.
We have a range of customers enrolled in the program across all age and market segments.
While we'll have to prove this out our hypothesis is that we'll achieve higher retention of TrueLane customers as they realize the benefits of the program.
Some final comments regarding profitability.
At a countrywide level AARP auto continues to perform near its combined ratio target reflecting favorable loss experience inherent with this preferred segment.
We're making progress towards improving margins in other channels as profitability in non-AARP agency improved 2 points since the first quarter of 2012.
In closing we're very pleased with results in consumer markets for the first quarter and our ability to return to top line growth while improving profitability.
We will continue to build on this momentum going forward.
I'll now turn the call over to Chris.
Thank you Andy.
Good morning everyone.
This morning I have 3 items to cover: first I'll summarize first quarter results; second I'll provide an update on capital resources; and third I'll provide a core earnings outlook for the second quarter.
Let's begin on Slide 15.
First quarter 2013 core earnings were up 7% to $456 million or $0.92 per diluted share.
The first quarter of 2012 included $38 million of core earnings from the Individual Life and Retirement Plans businesses which were sold in January of 2013.
Core earnings grew principally because of strong results from our P&amp;C Group Benefits and Mutual Fund businesses which had a 19% increase in core earnings.
In addition lower interest expense helped reduce corporate losses by $29 million.
Doug and Andy covered the P&amp;C and Group Benefit results.
Let me briefly touch upon Mutual Funds and Talcott.
You can find details on these segments in the appendix for today's slides and in the IFS.
Mutual Funds continues to build momentum in key areas of the business including sales net flows and fund performance.
Core earnings were $20 million in the quarter up from the fourth quarter of 2012 and flat the prior year.
As Liam mentioned the business is regaining sales momentum and we are encouraged by their results over the past few quarters.
Talcott results were down 26% due to the impact of the business sales and the cost of the ESP program which reduced first quarter core earnings by $25 million after-tax and DAC.
Excluding the impact of the businesses sold Talcott's earnings were down 11%.
We continue to be pleased with the metrics on the VA block.
In April surrenders on the Japan block continued to increase from the March levels.
With improving markets the net amount at risk in Japan has also improved.
As of April 26 the GMIB NAR was $600 million a $700 million improvement since March.
Driven by the ESP program full surrenders in the U.S.
remain elevated in April.
Our ESV offers continues to do well with acceptance rates of 25% in the first phase and 20% in the second phase.
The acceptance rate for the third phase which launched on April 1 is 7%.
Turning to Slide 16.
First quarter core earnings included about $0.05 net for favorable cats and unfavorable prior year development.
Cats were lower than forecast slightly offset by $9 million of after-tax unfavorable prior year development principally due to the 2 specialty programs that Doug just discussed.
Excluding these items core earnings per diluted share of $0.87 were above February's outlook of $0.75 to $0.80 due to better underwriting results in P&amp;C and Group Benefits.
The net loss for the quarter was $241 million principally due to 2 charges that we previously announced: first a DAC charge of $541 million primarily due to the expanded Japan VA hedging; second $138 million charge for the March debt tender offer.
Turning to Slide 17.
The Hartford's book value per diluted share excluding AOCI was $39.09 down 4% from 1 year ago.
Let me walk through the major items affecting the book value over the past year.
We generated core earnings of $1.4 billion which was offset by charges associated with our strategic initiatives.
These charges included: first $730 million in after-tax charges for the early extinguishment of debt from the Allianz refinancing in April of 2012 and a debt tender this quarter.
Including the conversion of the preferred stock in April 1 and the upcoming 2013 and 2014 debt maturities we will have reduced annualized pre-tax interest and dividends by $140 million an.
almost    20% reduction from 2011; second we sold Individual Life and Retirement Plans which generated a material statutory capital benefit but resulted in a $413 million GAAP loss; third we incurred a cumulative DAC unlock charge of $724 million principally due to the expanded hedging for Japan VA.
Also during the quarter we began repurchasing shares under our current $500 million authorization and have repurchased a total of $68 million through April 29.
We expect to repurchase about $100 million per quarter under the current authorization.
At current share prices our buyback program is accretive to book value and earnings per share.
We are focused on improving ROEs and expect a core earnings ROE of 7.5% to 8% for 2013.
We remain on target to meet that goal with an annualized core earnings ROE of 9.3% this quarter which tends to be seasonally high because of lower catastrophe and weather losses.
Our capital resources are summarized on Slide 18.
As you can see on this slide Hartford's capital resources totaled $18.7 billion at March 31 after approximately $1 billion for the debt tender program.
Our capital resources rose by $2.1 billion a significant improvement due to the business sales earnings and favorable markets.
The principal driver of the improvement in capital resources is the $1.5 billion increase in U.S.
statutory surplus of which $1.2 billion was in the Life Operations and $300 million in P&amp;C.
This net increase in statutory surplus is after $1.7 billion of dividends paid by the insurance companies during the quarter.
Holding company resources totaled $2.1 billion at the end of March.
These resources will be used for dividend and interest payments maturing debt in 2013 and '14 as well as the balance of our $500 million share repurchase program.
Slide 19 shows the components of the increase in U.S.
statutory surplus.
The $1.2 billion net increase in Life statutory surplus was due in part to a $500 million gain in variable annuities reflecting higher market levels and yen weakening.
In addition a $100 million gain was generated in other Life operating income including Group Benefits.
We also had a statutory surplus gain of about $2 billion on the businesses sold during the quarter which was slightly higher than our original estimate.
The Life Operations paid a $1.5 billion dividend to the holding company during the quarter.
Within our P&amp;C companies surplus increased by approximately $300 million reflecting strong operating results after $200 million of dividends paid during the quarter.
With strong capital resources and capital flexibility we are developing the next phase of our capital management plans.
As we discussed on April 11 the next phase will be focused on shareholders as we do not expect to tender for any additional debt in 2013 and 2014.
We look forward to updating you on those plans.
I'd now like to cover our second quarter outlook.
Our second quarter outlook projects core earnings of approximately $315 million to $345 million or $0.65 to $0.70 per diluted share assuming a weighted average share count of $489.5 million.
Included in this outlook are the following: first a catastrophe loss estimate of $121 million after-tax or $0.25 per share.
As discussed in February we increased our cat load assumptions as we experienced heavy second quarter losses for the last 2 years; second $100 million of share and warrant repurchases during the quarter; third this outlook does not include prior year development except for the accretion of discount on workers' compensation reserves.
As you know we will complete our annual asbestos environmental reserve studies during the second quarter; finally as a reminder core earnings does not include DAC unlock or restructuring charges which are included in net income.
To wrap up 2013 has been a busy year and we are pleased with the progress we have made.
We are focused on continuing our transformation of The Hartford by strengthening profit margins on the go-forward businesses and improving our capital and financial flexibility.
We are encouraged by the trends we see at Talcott and we remain focused on reducing the size and risk of the VA block.
We are executing on our current capital management plans.
Finally we are developing the next phase of our 2013 and 2014 capital management program.
All of these activities are focused on creating greater shareholder value.
Now I'll turn the call over to Sabra so we can begin our Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Chris.
We have about 25 minutes before the next company's call begins.
So in consideration of others who want to be on that call please limit yourself to 1 question and a follow-up.
Steve could you please give the Q&amp;A instructions? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of John Nadel from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of just real quick ones.
Given the higher level of Life Insurance company U.S.
Life company statutory capital I was hoping you could just give us an update on your estimated risk-based capital ratio and timing for when you might be able to take a dividend to the holding company out of the Life company.
And then I have a follow-up.
John it's Chris.
So thanks for your question.
I think the way we think about the RBC at the end of the first quarter in an approximate basis I mean it's north of 450% at HLA but we have approximately $800-plus million of statutory capital at White River Re.
And as we discussed on Investor Day I mean we're very encouraged by the capital flexibility that we're generating.
While we don't have current plans to take out Life company dividends I think we are putting ourselves in a position to do that by the end of 2014 or early '15.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I was hoping on the second quarter outlook if you could just give us some estimate on what you're including in terms of the after-tax costs associated with the enhanced surrender program.
It sounds like that's even more successful or at least so far it's very early in 2Q but it sounds like it's more successful than it was in 1Q.
Well Beth might be able to provide more color on that program.
But from the cost side I think about it as -- it's about $25 million after-tax in both the first quarter and the second quarter John.
Research Division</strong> And we should think about capital freeing up related to that cost at about a rate of 2 to 1? I think Beth described that in Investor Day fairly clearly so I think that's a good point of view.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just I guess 1 question just on kind of this next phase of the capital plan for '13 or '14.
Obviously you highlighted you're done with the debt reductions beyond what you outlined and pointed to the $100 million of buybacks but I guess you continue to kind of include 2013 within this next phase.
So I guess how should we be thinking about potential for either acceleration of buybacks this year or dividends in terms of the shareholder-friendly activities? Thanks Chris.
At a high level I would say first of all we're very gratified and pleased with the amount of enhanced capital generation that Chris and Beth talked about at our Investor Day as well as the increased capital flexibility that we have.
And we've made a lot of progress as you know in making that happen in the last 4 months reducing the size and risk of the variable annuity book as you saw this quarter improving trends in our go-forward businesses.
The fact that Talcott is capital self-sufficient enables us now to take excess capital that will be generated by our go-forward businesses and use that for capital management activities and/or to invest in the business for future profitable growth.
As Chris and I said repeatedly because of -- and we said it I think at the Investor Day as well.
Because we've got increased capital flexibility we are developing the next phase of as you say the '13 and '14 capital management plans.
As Chris pointed out and I'll reiterate those plans will be focused on shareholders.
We would expect to communicate those to investors in the near term.
And anything we do communicate we would anticipate coming from holding company resources.
So I think that's a greater context that we'd give you.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just 1 quick follow-up for Doug in terms of a lot of good color on the P&amp;C business.
Within Group Benefits 1Q is historically the weakest obviously results certainly better there than what we were looking for.
So would you kind of expect 1Q to kind of keep that pattern as seasonally weakest and therefore maybe we turn the corner on profitability here? How should we be thinking about kind of the improvement there going forward? I would say this Chris that in the prior first quarters we've had some non-quarterly adjustments.
I know in the first quarter '12 we had some adjusting for our '11 year.
So that was a quarter that was really a bit out of sequence.
I look at the first quarter '13 as largely symbolic of what we're doing.
I think it's roughly a run rate-type quarter for us and very pleased with the progress we're making and look forward to the backside of this year.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay Cohen from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> The question is on the expenses in the P&amp;C businesses.
I guess we had assumed that the expense ratio would be somewhat elevated this year because of some of the orphaned expenses for the businesses that you had sold and yet you didn't seem to see it.
It feels as if you've done some other -- taken some other actions to make sure that didn't happen.
If you could talk more about that.
And then I guess related to that as we look into next year should we see further improvement as those kind of orphaned expenses do in fact go away? Jay it's Chris.
So I'll provide maybe a comment or 2 and then Doug could also provide a comment.
So thanks for noticing.
We are committed as we've been talking about to becoming much more of an efficient organization.
We have our $850 million goal for 2013.
We believe we're going to achieve 90% of that this year.
We have components of that goal that already focused in on enhancements and efficiencies just besides taking out the orphaned costs as you explained.
So '13's activities are focused both on the orphaned activities your words and our own expense initiatives and activities.
So they are beginning to show up in the run rate and thanks for noticing.
Doug would you add any color? Maybe just the only other piece I would add Chris is that these quarters do tend to bounce around a little bit.
We're on top of our expenses and obviously working hard to make sure that our run rate is moving ahead are competitive in all our markets.
First quarter tends to have some adjustment from prior year.
So there were some adjustments to prior growth particularly in the compensation area for agent accruals but nothing that I would say would be way out of pattern.
And we're pleased with progress here.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Meredith from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Two questions here.
The first one I'm just curious there was a question about dividends out of the Life Operation.
I'm just curious what's your thoughts about the dividend out of the P&amp;C operation this year? You did $200 million this quarter.
It looks like you've got the ability to do well over $1 billion.
Brian it's Chris.
We're going to continue with our current plan of $800 million annualized.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question.
Andy just curious.
It's the first quarter I've seen a long time where you actually had a sequential increase in PIF in the auto space.
Do you think that's a continuing trend here going forward? Yes Brian.
Thanks for the question.
I do believe that's a sustainable trend going forward.
I guess I'll break it down by new and renewal business performance.
First of all new business.
We talked a lot about AARP Agency and how that's a strong growth engine.
It's a great way for us to connect with AARP members that prefer to shop in this channel.
But the division doesn't grow premium and policies without really nailing our AARP Direct program.
That's where the bulk of the premiums are.
And I'll just remind you that that is a direct model.
It starts with really effective and efficient execution of our direct marketing program that's direct mail publications print and digital media.
It's also important to note that more than 90% of those responses end up in our call centers on the phones as potential sales.
And so our phone execution has just been terrific over the past 12 months -- 12 18 months.
And you couple strong execution around sales in the call centers with a competitive rate level and you're going to see some pretty nice new business growth.
On the renewal side really it's the moderation of the rate increases that we had to take a couple of years ago to correct some profitability issues is the biggest driver.
But we're also much better at understanding the price sensitivity of our renewal book particularly at the individual account level something that we can't possibly know enough about.
And I think this is really going to help us going forward with policy and premium retention.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Bass from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> One question on sort of the Phase 2 of the capital plan.
I guess should we think about that including both capital being generated by the ongoing business as well as potentially reducing the buffer for a stress scenario given the actions that you've taken to reduce VA risk? And then related to that if you could just talk about of that sort of stress buffer how much of that capital is currently at the holding company? Eric it's Chris.
I'll take the last one first.
I think we talked about this at the Investor Day.
Of our stress capital in the 900 scenario of $2.2 billion we'd say the majority of it is at the holding company already.
As far as the '13 and '14 plan when -- as Liam said when we communicate that you ought to think about us using existing resources and considering capital generation capabilities for the remainder of '13 and '14 for our businesses.
And that's what we'll communicate.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Gallagher with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on that last question.
So -- and Chris if I understood you correctly when I think pro forma the debt issuance in April you're going to be sitting on $2.4 billion of holdco resources.
And if we consider that what you're going to earn during the year is enough to service debt and pay common dividends.
What is the appropriate holdco buffer? I presume 2 years worth of interest expenses would be considered overly conservative so I'm assuming that would be enough.
That would leave of the $2.4 billion probably north of $1 billion as presumably something that you could use.
Am I in the right ballpark in terms of at least the building blocks here? I think Tom you are in the building blocks.
I think you just need to keep in mind that you do have debt maturities coming due of $520 million.
So if I understood your math you added in the $300 million for the April debt issuance but you didn't take out $520 million for '13 and '14 debt maturity.
So with that minor point I think you're thinking about it generally right.
And we've said in prior settings that 2x interest and dividends feels good for us during this current period of time.
So I would still have that in mind as a general rule of thumb.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
So yes that would take the $2.4 billion down to $1.9 billion but considering 2 years' worth of interest coverage I got you.
The other question I had and I think this is pretty important considering how people are thinking about Talcott and valuing it at I would say pretty steep discount to statutory surplus.
The $500 million of variable annuity capital generation this quarter I just want to understand what's behind that because I know the way you guys had been hedged leading up to this point had been -- where a lot of the upside on market movement whether it was the yen weakening or equity markets being driven higher was offset by hedge losses.
But obviously you've hit a new inflection point here.
I just want to understand the way the hedge is constructed and what happens from this point forward if yen continues to weaken and equity markets generally move higher.
Will you continue to have a pretty significant amount of capital generation at least just the market based on market movements here? Tom it's Chris.
It's a great question.
I would say generally no just to be clear.
So what we experienced in the past particularly this quarter would not be repeatable going forward particularly as Bob and Beth described the new complete hedge program for equity and currency risk.
So we took advantage of the market recovery both in FX and equity.
We did participate in the upside but that upside now of further yen weakening or equity market improvements in Japan has been basically curtailed.
So as we think about it any improvements there in the net economics will be offset by hedge losses going forward.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So we shouldn't expect any further -- this was sort of a onetime bump-up that you can -- that we got ahead of this transition.
Exactly.
I would say it's -- we're in a new phase.
I've used the terms.
If you've heard me before we're market-neutral to Japan equity and currency exposure.
Your next question comes from the line of Nigel Dally with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up on the Enhanced Surrender Value.
I understand the cost is going to be continue to be elevated in the second quarter.
But I'm guessing as those programs play out that cost should be dissipating in the back half of the year.
So should we be expecting sort of the after-tax margin for the variable annuity business to kind of expand in the back half of the  year? I just wanted some clarity there.
Yes this is Beth.
As it relates to what we're assuming for the Enhanced Surrender Value and the numbers that Chris gave is we're really thinking about that as a second quarter number.
And then because of the way the program works we wouldn't really expect to see continued surrenders at this level as we go into third and fourth quarter.
So we would expect the costs that we're seeing in the second quarter to decline once we get into the third and fourth quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Jimmy Bhullar from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just first on the Japan surrenders I understand they went up as the quarter went on.
So would you expect them to go up further in the second quarter given what the markets have done? And then secondly on your guidance you obviously had very good results in the first quarter.
And you're assuming higher cats I think about $0.25 or so of cats in the second quarter.
But the second quarter guidance relative to first quarter results seems a little light.
It seems like you're assuming lower P&amp;C margins but just want to get an idea on what else is affecting your second quarter results versus what you reported in the first quarter.
This is Beth.
I'll start with the first question on the Japan surrender rates.
So as we've gone into April and have continued to see market improvements the surrender rates that we're seeing continue to be elevated.
For the month of April we're seeing about 18% 19% on an annualized basis.
Whether that will persist into May and June I think is very dependent on market levels.
So it has been now several months where we've seen this elevated activity with these types of markets.
And so we are expecting that if markets stay where they are that we'll continue to see higher surrender rates.
Jimmy it's Chris.
On the guidance I would just say there's probably 2 other items that are just going to affect comparability a little bit is -- besides cat there's always non-cat weather that has some seasonal impacts particularly in the Indianapolis business.
So we're probably picking up just higher normalized seasonal non-cat weather.
And then lastly if you look at our partnership yield this quarter we're about 9%.
We do assume 6% going forward.
So that might be just a slight little delta from the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a clarification.
When you were talking about holding company cushion I think you mentioned 2x interest costs.
You didn't say anything about holding company expenses.
So should we include that with it as well? Or as you think about the cushion you're not including anything for expenses? The holding company interest and dividends would be the way I would think about it Jimmy.
And we have roughly $20 million $25 million of unallocated holding companies expenses so I would include that also.
Research Division</strong> Like 1 to 2x that? Yes.
Steve I think we have time for 1 more question.
Your last question comes from the line of Randy Binner from FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just one for Doug Elliot.
There's been a lot of commentary kind of on the pricing and rate being pushed into the market but I'd be curious on your kind of perspective of how sustainable it is to see the price increases you were able to push into the market this quarter both in Commercial and Standard and as well as Middle Markets.
I mean it's a high level.
You're kind of -- high single digits low double digits is running kind of right with the best companies that are pushing rate into the market.
So wondering how sustainable that level of rate increase is in your opinion as we go through 2013.
Good morning Randy.
This is Doug.
Really good question.
Pleased with our progress through first quarter.
And as I look -- we share in our supplement our combined ratios x x and straight up in the middle.
There's still more work to be done.
And as we have commented several times a quiet cat quarter rather talk to you 90 days after we kind of move through Q2.
But I see action sustaining.
I know that our approach in the marketplace is not going to shift at all.
We're pleased with progress.
But we still have more work to do to get in the territory of combined ratios that will produce the ROE that these businesses demand.
And so I look at this as the middle of the game but pleased with where we're performing right now.
Research Division</strong> Are you getting pushback from your distribution or from the end users on the price increases? Because it is kind of an extra business cost for your target market mostly in Commercial I'm talking about.
Is there any kind of hesitation or pushback you're getting from the channel or the end users on this? I guess I wouldn't use the word pushback but I would say this we hope and expect that our retentions over the next several quarters will improve.
I think that will happen.
Again this is a territory-by-territory discussion.
So we can have a different discussion about the West Coast than I would with Southeast or a Northeast.
But in general as I look at our overall performance that's 1 area that I hope will improve in the coming quarters and we're going to focus there.
And particularly where rate adequacy is at play we'll be a bit more aggressive.
Thanks Randy.
And thank you all for joining us today.
We certainly appreciate your interest in The Hartford.
And if you have any follow-up questions please reach out to the IR team and we'll be happy to help you.
Thanks a lot and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Laurel and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Hartford's Second Quarter Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Sabra Purtill Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and welcome to the Hartford Second Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
Our speakers today include Liam McGee Chairman President and CEO; Doug Elliot President of Commercial Markets; Andy Napoli President of Consumer Markets; and Chris Swift Chief Financial Officer.
Other members of our executive management team available for the Q&amp;A section of this call today include Beth Bombara President of Talcott Resolution; Brion Johnson Chief Investment Officer; and Bob Rupp Chief Risk Officer.
As detailed on Page 2 of the presentation today's presentation includes forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results may differ in a material way.
We do not assume any obligation to update today's forward-looking statements and investors should consider the risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ.
Our news release 10-Q 2012 10-K and other filings we make with the SEC contain a detailed description and explanation of those risks and uncertainties.
Finally please note our presentation includes non-GAAP financial measures.
We provide definitions and reconciliations of these measures to the comparable GAAP measure in the news release financial supplement and SEC filings.
I'll now turn the call over to Liam.
Thank you Sabra.
Good morning everyone and thanks again for joining us today.
We're pleased to report another quarter of strong execution at the Hartford.
We continued to deliver on our objectives of generating profitable growth in the go-forward businesses and reducing the size and the risk of the legacy annuity blocks.
In June we also announced a significant expansion of our capital management program.
As you saw last night The Hartford delivered second quarter core earnings of $324 million up 18% over the prior year.
Driven by improving fundamentals aggregate core earnings in Property &amp; Casualty Group Benefits and Mutual Funds were up 28%.
This earnings growth reflects the continuation of positive pricing momentum in Property &amp; Casualty and Group Benefits as well as product and distribution initiatives that are generating profitable growth.
We continue to achieve meaningful price increases in Property &amp; Casualty commercial.
Renewal written pricing increased 8% on average in the Standard Commercial lines in the second quarter consistent with the company's last 3 quarters and well ahead of loss cost trends.
Our philosophy and approach is unchanged and we will continue to be aggressive and smart in our pricing actions.
We are optimistic that this disciplined approach to pricing combined with loss costs that remained benign would drive additional margin expansion going forward.
In Consumer Markets Andy and his team have continued to leverage our relationship with AARP expanding margins and delivering 2% written premium growth.
This was the third consecutive quarter of year-over-year written premium growth.
For AARP sold to agents which as you know is a key growth opportunity for this business written premiums were up 63% in the second quarter.
In P&amp;C Commercial Doug and his team have complemented The Hartford's traditional expertise in workers' compensation with expanded product and underwriting capabilities in property and liability.
This is particularly apparent in Middle Market where we continue to diversify new business production.
Through these actions The Hartford is becoming a stronger and a more balanced commercial P&amp;C player.
In Group Benefits profitability continued to improve in the second quarter as a result of our disciplined approach to pricing and our management of the book.
We also benefited from improving disability incidence rates a positive change from the company's experience over the past few years.
Small Commercial just launched an expansion of its agency new business platform called ICON.
This will improve the quoting and sales experience for agents and their CSRs providing us the opportunity to quote and bind a higher percentage of available business.
We're also rolling out a new top-of-the-line P&amp;C claims handling system which will improve the speed and efficiency of our claims process.
We expect to begin implementation of the system in mid-2014.
The Hartford is investing significantly in initiatives like ICON and the claims system to strengthen our capabilities and competitive advantage.
With improving execution and these investments I am confident that we will achieve additional margin expansion and profitable top line growth in 2013 and beyond.
In Mutual Funds Jim Davey and his team continued to make progress with strong growth sales and solid investment performance against benchmarks in the second quarter.
We remain optimistic about our ability to improve net flows and grow assets under management.
The Talcott Resolution team made further progress reducing the size and risk of the legacy annuity blocks.
In the U.S.
the enhanced Surrender Value program has been more successful than we expected with a 30% cumulative take rate to date.
This contributed several points to the U.S.
full surrender rate which rose to 17.5% annualized for the second quarter.
In Japan the annualized full surrender rate jumped to almost 35% in the second quarter driven by the significantly improved moneyness [ph] of the book.
To put this number in perspective until 2013 the annual surrender rate in Japan averaged less than 4%.
While we cannot predict future lapse rates with certainty at current market levels we believe Japanese surrenders will remain much higher than our prior experience.
The Talcott team also reached an agreement in June to sell the U.K.
variable annuity business.
The transaction which we expect to close by year-end eliminates the risk and expense associated with this VA block.
Finally in June we announced the $750 million expansion of our 2013 2014 equity repurchase program to a total of $1.25 billion.
In addition the quarterly dividend was increased from $0.10 to $0.15 per share.
This announcement resulted from our success over the past few years to focus The Hartford on capital-generating businesses to reduce the size and risk of the annuity blocks and to achieve capital self-sufficiency in the Talcott operations.
The Hartford is committed to delivering profitable growth in our businesses and further reducing risk.
We are delivering on these objectives which will continue to create shareholder value.
I'll now turn the call over to Doug for a discussion on Commercial Markets.
Doug welcome.
Thank you Liam and good morning everyone.
I'm going to cover our P&amp;C Commercial and Group Benefits results for the second quarter of 2013.
I'll also provide some commentary on the marketplace and updates on several key business objectives.
Margin improvement through effective underwriting and pricing actions remains at the top of our priorities and we're pleased with our continued progress during the second quarter.
Let me begin on Slide 5.
P&amp;C Commercial had a combined ratio for the quarter of 98.4%.
We continued to experience very solid pricing gains at 8% generally consistent with our prior quarters.
Our results for the quarter include a charge of $80 million for the elimination of the New York Workers' Compensation 25-A fund.
Excluding this charge our combined ratio was 93.2% 7.3 points lower than the second quarter of 2012.
Lower cat losses in the quarter accounted for 2 points of this improvement.
Our prior year development excluding the adjustment for New York 25-A was positive news of $43 million in the quarter.
Underlining all of these factors our second quarter combined ratio x-cat and x-prior year development was 93.1% 1.4 points lower than the second quarter of 2012.
Our focus on underwriting and pricing continues to drive favorable accident year profitability trends.
Our Group Benefit business had an outstanding quarter.
Core earnings of $37 million were up $7 million from the first quarter of 2013.
On a year-to-date basis earnings are up 72%.
Before I review the results of our business segments I'd like to spend a few minutes discussing our pricing approach and our supporting analytics.
We have a highly segmented approach for determining the rate need within our book of business.
This sophistication has allowed us to successfully target increases within underperforming segments while retaining those segments that are adequately priced.
As our pricing execution has become more sophisticated so too have the analytical tools we use to capture the results of our actions.
We have made refinements this quarter to the calculation we used to determine renewal written pricing to better reflect rate changes on our renewed mix of business.
Let me now share some specific thoughts about each of our 4 business segments starting on the Property Casualty side with Small Commercial on Slide 7.
Written premiums of $787 million were up 2% in the quarter.
Our current accident quarter combined ratio of 91.5% improved 2 points from second quarter of 2012 driven primarily by lower cats.
Pricing in this business remains strong at 8% well in front of our loss trends.
And I'm very pleased with our ability to effectively manage profit margins.
We have consistently outperformed the market achieving industry-leading combined ratios over many years.
Our formula for managing profitability in this business has not changed and we're well-positioned to maintain our performance in this business as we continue to refine our margins.
As Liam mentioned in his comments we also continued to strengthen our Small Commercial market position with the rollout of ICON for our business owners' package policy.
ICON is our new business quoting platform for Small Commercial and we have completely redesigned this tool to improve the speed responsiveness and accuracy process for our agents.
We now have our Small Business worker's compensation and package products available on the new platform and response from our agents has been very positive.
Once commercial auto is released in 2014 we'll have our entire core small Commercial product suite available for new business production through this state-of-the-art automation platform.
All in all a very good quarter for our Small Commercial business.
Moving to Slide 8.
Our Middle Market segment also had a very good quarter with a current accident quarter combine ratio of 97.6%.
This result is 5.6 points lower than 2012 with 2.4 points of that improvement attributable to favorable catastrophes.
This business has come a very long way from where we were 2 years ago.
Written pricing for the quarter although down approximately 1.5 points sequentially registered a solid 8% increase year-over-year.
Coupled with our underwriting actions margins have continued to improve across all of our core lines especially worker's compensation.
Over the last 8 quarters we've been intensely focused on executing our pricing strategies in Middle Market and we've made substantial improvements in our book of business quality and performance.
Our current accident quarter loss ratio excluding cats is down nearly 5 points from last year.
We remain aggressive on our pricing approach particularly for business that continues to underperform.
This is especially important for our worker's compensation line which has needed more rate action than any other portion of our book.
This quarter worker's comp renewal written pricing in the Middle Market achieved a 10% increase.
Although down from the low teens a year ago this rate level continues to drive margin expansion on an improved book profile.
In addition rates and other lines such as commercial auto and property are up versus same time 2012.
Some segments of our business are now performing extremely well after several cycles of pricing and require more modest rate increases to remain ahead of loss cost trends.
We still expect to achieve margin improvement on these accounts but not at the pace of 2 years ago.
These shifts are the result of our analytics which allow us to manage pricing and retention for overall results.
Early in my tenure we established a strategic goal to become a more balanced Middle Market underwriter complementing our expertise in worker's compensation with equal skill in the property and general liability lines.
This goal supports both our intent to profitably grow our franchise and the desire to mitigate the risks that follow from over concentrations in a single line of business.
We have made substantial progress on this front and our mix of business continued to improve in the second quarter.
Worker's compensation new business in the quarter accounted for 29% of total new business compared with 46% during the same period 2 years ago.
Retentions have remained steady and our new business opportunities in property and general liability are growing as the marketplace recognizes our strength and competencies in these lines.
Total written premium in the quarter was slightly positive which is the first time I can say that since our reunderwriting actions took hold in the third quarter of 2011.
Overall this was another good quarter of progress for Middle Market.
Our approach to profit management remains steady as we look to reach our long-term target returns.
The performance of our Specialty business on Slide 9 remains largely consistent with the first quarter.
Our success with national accounts primarily in the $1 million to $5 million segment continues.
We wrote 24 new accounts in the quarter and our retention of existing accounts remains strong.
Pricing in this market segment has been rational and we're achieving rate levels consistent with our long-term targets.
Financial products had a good quarter with continued positive mid-single-digit pricing across the portfolio.
As you may have already noted we released $30 million of professional liability reserves as we continue to examine our results for all accident years.
Shifting over to our programs area.
Reunderwriting actions continued during the quarter with particular focus on auto liability exposures.
With almost all the transportation programs now nonrenewed our book quality is improving.
We did take a charge of $40 million to our auto liability line of which $35 million related to our program business.
Much of this reunderwriting is behind us and we feel better about the positioning of this segment moving forward.
As summarized on Slide 10 our Group Benefit business had an outstanding quarter as I had earlier mentioned.
We've been very disciplined in our management actions and the results are clearly paying off.
Core earnings for the quarter were up $3 million over prior year achieving a margin of 3.9%.
Year-to-date core earnings of $67 million increased $28 million doubling our margin versus the same period 1 year ago.
Our disability loss ratio of 82.7% in the quarter was favorable to last year by over 10 points driven by earned pricing and improvements in our claim trends.
Pricing in the quarter remains favorable with long-term disability rate increases of 6%.
Year-to-date our long-term disability rate increases nearly 13% due to a much larger first quarter renewal premium base versus the second quarter.
And new sales in the quarter were $103 million up 56% from 2012 as pricing in certain sectors of the new business marketplace improved.
In previous quarters we've commented that our claim recoveries were improving.
That improvement continued this quarter across our long-term and short-term disability books.
We're also encouraged by the early signs of declining incidence rates in our 2012 book.
As you recall incidence rates have been stable for several quarters but at historically elevated levels.
As our 2012 data has matured we have observed a modest but consistent decrease in incidence rates approaching levels we've not seen in several years.
We'll be watching our data very closely in the quarters ahead to determine the sustainability of this improvement.
We have nearly completed a full cycle of pricing and underwriting actions on our multiyear contracts.
Our January 2014 renewal block will complete much of that effort and this disciplined execution is delivering results.
We're committed to staying in front of loss trends with deeper claim and pricing analytics.
These positive signs in our Group Benefits performance are a direct result of the aggressive actions we've taken over the last few years.
Stepping back from the details this a very good quarter for Commercial Markets.
Our performance and trends were consistent with the strong start in the first quarter and we continue to see the positive results of underwriting and pricing decisions made over the last few years.
Overall pricing is still outpacing our loss cost trends and driving margin improvement.
There's still much work ahead but I'm excited about our progress.
Let me now turn the call over to Andy Napoli.
Thanks Doug.
In Consumer Markets our continued focus is to improve margins while steadily improving our growth trajectory and we're pleased with the progress we've made.
Our combined ratio for AARP direct auto continues to perform at/or better than our target.
We're making good strides in non-AARP agency auto as our x-cat x-prior year combined ratio was 8 points better than second quarter 2012.
In Homeowners favorable weather experience is contributing to improving profitability.
Core earnings for the quarter were $15 million versus a loss of $47 million last year.
The improvement in core earnings was generated from 3 primary sources.
First our x-cat and x-prior year combined ratio improved 2.4 points to 88.9%; second cat losses were lower this year; and third we had higher favorable prior year development primarily related to prior year cats.
Current accident year cat losses for the quarter were $142 million primarily related to wind and hail events across the Midwest and Plains states including the tornado that hit Moore Oklahoma.
We had the same number of events in the quarter as we did last year but with lower severity.
We also released $31 million of reserves related to Storm Sandy and other prior year cats.
Claims severity for this sort of event is always challenging to estimate.
And as it turns out property and auto loss severities have emerged favorably and auto salvage returns are coming in better than expected.
Focusing on auto profitability.
Our combined ratio x-cat and x-prior year improved to 93.8% just over 2 points better than last year.
From a loss trend perspective we're seeing favorability and auto liability frequency in particular lower-cost fender benders and personal injury protection or PIP claims.
Auto physical damage severity trends have moderated slightly and we'll continue to watch this closely.
In homeowners our combined ratio x-cat and prior year dropped just over 2 points to 77.9% reflecting continued favorable non-cat weather frequency and strong earned pricing in excess of expected loss cost.
Now let's transition to growth.
Written premiums grew 2% and we're positioned to maintain that level throughout the remainder of the year.
Written premiums were up 1% in auto and 3% in homeowners.
Contributing to the growth were renewal written pricing increases of 5% and 7% respectively and improved policy retention in both product lines.
New business increased 9% to $93 million in auto and 13% to $34 million in homeowners.
New business production was driven in part by a 28% increase in the number of authorized AARP agency locations now at over 6 600 and a 32% increase in Internet responses for our AARP direct business.
I'd like to focus for a moment on this online component of our direct operating model.
As many of you know the foundation of our 28-year partnership with AARP is an effective multimedia direct model that aligns well with current personal lines channel trends.
Historically the vast majority of our direct responses end up in our phone centers as new business acquisition opportunities and we've enjoyed a great deal of success with this phone-centric model.
Recently we've made a concerted effort to increase our digital throughput.
In other words to have more direct responses finish online.
Given industry consumer buying trends we believe our ability to generate and close business online will be a significant component of our growth and profitability story in the future.
Most notably we recently started providing customers the ability to bundle auto and home in one integrated online quote.
Our efforts are beginning to yield positive results.
We like this channel as it is more efficient and online business has tended to have higher retention and therefore could contribute higher lifetime value than other channels in our operating model.
In closing we're pleased with our results for the second quarter and the first half of this year and the remainder of 2013 continues to look positive.
We'll continue to take rate increases in both auto and home to either maintain or achieve our combined ratio targets and we'll closely monitor the impact on new business and retention while continuing to execute our strategy to deliver profitable growth.
I'll now turn the call over to Chris.
Thank you Andy.
Good morning everyone.
This morning I will cover 3 topics: first I will review key items from the quarter; second I will update statutory capital and holding company resources including VA impacts in the Group Benefits' legal-entity separation project; and third I will provide a third quarter outlook.
Let's begin on Slide 16.
Second quarter 2013 core earnings were up 18% to $324 million or $0.66 per diluted share.
We produced strong results this quarter even before adjusting last year's results worth $39 million of earnings from the Individual Life and Retirement Plans businesses which were sold in January of this year.
This quarter's core earnings growth was driven by improved margins in the Commercial and Consumer Markets which Doug and Andy just covered and Mutual Funds growth.
Excluding prior year development core earnings per diluted share were about $0.85 which is above the outlook we provided in April of $0.65 to $0.70 due to better underwriting results higher Talcott earnings and higher limited partnership returns.
Annualized limited partnership returns were 13% this quarter well over our 6% outlook resulting in excess returns of about $0.05 in core earnings per diluted share.
Mutual funds core earnings were up 5% relative to the second quarter of 2012.
Jim Davey and his team continue to build momentum in key areas including sales distribution initiatives and fund performance.
Sales were up 32% over the prior year.
Net flows were negative including $2.5 billion in 2 large redemptions one of which was a $1.4 billion institutional account that was expected to redeem.
In P&amp;C other operations core losses increased this quarter due to a $141 million pretax charge for additional reserves related to our annual asbestos and environmental study.
$130 million of this charge or $85 million after tax was for legacy asbestos exposures.
The majority of the development was from increased severity in frequency on a small number of our direct accounts about 50 out of 1 100 policyholders.
These policyholders are not -- are peripheral defendants meaning that they did not produce asbestos but may have used another company's asbestos in their business.
Talcott's core earnings were down 2% which I'll cover in a few minutes.
In the Corporate segment core losses improved $11 million over the prior year quarter principally due to lower interest expense from debt repayments.
Turning to Slide 17.
Second quarter core earnings included prior year development of $95 million after tax or $0.19 per share including the asbestos charge.
Aside from asbestos this quarter's prior year development included $80 million before tax for increased worker's compensation loss reserves in New York State as a result of the legislative closing of the fund for reopened cases in that state.
This is a onetime charge for estimated future claims that could occur if currently closed worker's compensation claims reopen in the future.
Aside from the New York charge we had favorable development in P&amp;C Commercial of $43 million principally on professional and general liability catastrophes and uncollectible reinsurance.
We had some unfavorable development on commercial auto almost entirely in the Specialty line.
Beyond the New York charge worker's compensation had almost no net prior year development.
Consumer Markets had favorable development of $32 million largely due to favorable prior year catastrophe development Storm Sandy in particular.
You'll notice that second quarter cat losses were right on our forecast and cats were a lot lower than last year.
Finally our trailing 12-month core earnings ROE was 7.6% a significant improvement from a year ago.
We expect to achieve a 2013 core earnings ROE of approximately 8% for the full year which is at the high end of our outlook of 7.5% to 8% that we communicated earlier this year.
Turning to Slide 18.
There are 2 principal items which reduced our strong core earnings and generated a second quarter net loss of $190 million.
First net realized capital losses not included in core earnings were $413 million after tax mostly due to the Japan VA hedging losses; and second losses from discontinued operations were $126 million due to the sale of Hartford Life International Ltd.
Turning to Slide 19.
The Hartford's book value per diluted share excluding AOCI was $38.44 down 4% from the $40 at year-end principally due to the items that I just covered as well as the first quarter Japan DAC write-off and loss and extinguishment of debt.
Book value including AOCI was $38.59 per share at June 30 down 16% from $45.80 at year-end.
The change in book value includes a $900 million reduction in net unrealized gains in AOCI during the first quarter due to the business sales.
Since March AOCI has reduced principally due to the impact of higher interest rates and credit spreads on the market value of our $82 billion general account portfolio.
As you can see on the chart on the bottom of this slide after tax unrealized gains on our investment portfolio declined from $2.8 billion in March to $1.3 billion at the end of June as the 10-year treasury yield rose from 1.87% to 2.49%.
Since year end we have repurchased about 60 -- excuse me $166 million of equity including $118 million during the second quarter.
In June as Liam mentioned we expanded our repurchase program to $1.25 billion.
Going forward our repurchase activity will be about $200 million a quarter through year-end 2014 subject to legal restrictions and market conditions.
Now let's turn to Talcott results on Slide 20.
As I mentioned Talcott core earnings were $196 million down 2% over prior year which included $39 million of Life and Retirement Plans businesses that were sold in January of 2013.
The quarter included $23 million of after tax costs related to the ESV program.
This quarter also had lower DAC amortization most of which was due to the first quarter write-off of the Japan DAC asset which eliminated future DAC amortization.
Talcott's second quarter earnings also benefited from $39 million of pretax limited partnership income up slightly from $32 million in the second quarter of 2012 and up from $24 million in the first quarter of 2013.
Our focus for Talcott is reducing its size and risk and we are pleased with the progress this quarter.
On Slide 21 full surrenders on the Japan block more than tripled for the first quarter.
This reflects higher market levels which significantly improved policyholder account values.
At the end of June 57% of Japan GMIB contracts were in the money for policyholders compared with 99% a year ago.
And the average in the moneyness was 7% down from 20% for June 2012.
Surrender activity was at an annualized rate of 34.8% for the quarter.
Surrender activity to date has been highly correlated to market levels.
Once policyholders are out of the money meaning that their account value is higher than their guarantee we have seen surrenders sharply increase.
July surrender activity has been approximately 30% on an annualized basis.
Slide 22 covers our U.S.
VA block.
Full VA surrenders in the U.S.
increased to 17.5% for the quarter primarily due to the ESV program and higher market levels.
The ESV program has performed much better than our original expectations with an overall take up rate of 30% to date.
As a result of market levels and surrenders NAR has decreased on both the Japan and the U.S.
VA block since March 31.
Japan GMIB NAR was $851 million down 34% from first quarter and down 87% from the $6.5 billion at June 30 2012.
U.S.
GMWB NAR was 300 -- excuse me $282 million at the end of June down the slightly from March but down 72% since June 2012.
Keep in mind our NAR calculation is not discounted or adjusted for policyholder behavior assumptions.
It also does not include the benefits of hedging.
Let's now turn to our capital position which is summarized on Slide 23.
As you can see The Hartford's capital resources totaled $18.1 billion at June 30 compared with $18.7 billion at the end of March principally due to lower U.S.
life statutory surplus which I'll cover in a minute.
U.S.
P&amp;C surplus was down slightly due to the normal quarterly dividend paid to the holding company.
Holding company resources were $2.2 billion before the $320 million July debt repayment and third quarter share repurchases.
Slide 24 shows the components of the change in U.S.
statutory surplus.
As you can see the largest impact on U.S.
life statutory surplus was the negative VA impact of approximately $600 million.
This decline was principally due to the Japan VA hedging losses as the majority of the Japan VA hedges are in U.S.
life legal entities but only a portion of the policyholder liability is in our U.S.
life legal entities.
Our hedge programs performed this quarter as designed.
As a reminder our hedging programs target the economic value of the VA block not statutory or GAAP accounting.
However our hedge results closely match the change in the economics of the book which we call market consistent value or MCV.
The MCV has improved over the past quarter with the weakening of the yen higher global equity markets and higher interest rates.
Aside from the VA impacts statutory capital impacts were relatively modest this quarter and I would draw your attention to the positive life statutory earnings reflecting better group benefits and fixed annuity results.
Although statutory capital declined during the quarter our overall capital margins remained strong and has improved since year end reflecting the reduction in risk of our business including the impact of business sales.
Overall current capital resources were $18.1 billion compared with the $16.6 billion at December 31 2012 before the closing of the Life and Retirement Plans sales.
I also wanted to update you on our Group Benefits legal entity separation project.
Slide 25 shows our current legal structure on the left side and on the right what it will look like once we complete the legal entity separation project.
Part of our Group Benefits business is included in Talcott Resolution legal entities which we want to restructure so that management and legal entities are aligned.
The legal entity separation process requires regulatory licensing approval from New York for Hartford Life and Accident which we call HLA to write Group Benefits business in New York.
We intend to move some capital within the life group in order to capitalize HLA to higher standalone RBC levels which will require approval from the Connecticut Department of Insurance to move the funds within the life group.
We do not expect to use holding company or P&amp;C capital resources for this legal entity separation.
We are also working on operational initiatives needed to achieve this separation and are on track to complete by early 2014.
Now I'd like to cover our third quarter outlook on Slide 26.
Our third quarter outlook projects core earnings of approximately $345 million to $370 million or $0.70 to $0.75 per diluted share assuming a weighted average share count of approximately $490 million.
Included in this outlook are the following: first catastrophe losses of $86 million after tax; second Talcott core earnings of $160 million to $175 million including approximately $7 million in after tax costs for the ESV program; third prior year development for the accretion of discount on worker's compensation reserves of $6 million after tax no other prior year development is included in this outlook; fourth our outlook for a limited partnership investment income is about $5 million before tax lower than our annual 6% assumption due to the expected fund performance in the third quarter; finally around $200 million of share and warrant repurchases in the third quarter.
As a reminder core earnings do not include restructuring charges or DAC unlocks including any impacts from our annual policyholder behavior study in the third quarter.
To wrap up the second quarter let me summarize a few themes.
Our go-forward businesses are producing strong results reflecting disciplined pricing actions.
We are confident in our ability to profitably grow and improve margins which will offset the decline in Talcott earnings going forward.
We are focused on continuing our transformation of The Hartford by improving our overall cost competitiveness with a continuous process improvement mindset.
We are pleased by the trends we see at Talcott which contributes to the goals of reducing the risk and size of the VA blocks.
Capital resources and margin remain robust with Talcott remaining capital self-sufficient.
Lastly we have a positive outlook for the remainder of the year with expanding margins assuming cats are in line with expectations.
Now I'll turn the call over to Sabra so we could begin the Q&amp;A answer session.
Sabra? Thank you Chris.
We know our prepared comments went a little long this morning but we've reserved about 30 minutes for Q&amp;A.
Please be considerate of others and limit yourself to 1 question and a follow-up.
And you're of course welcome to requeue for additional question.
Laurel could you please give the Q&amp;A instructions? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Erik Bass with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just the first question just given the increase in the pace of runoff for the VA blocks can you talk about the potential timing for taking a dividend from Talcott? And is there any possibility of taking out money in 2014? I'll turn that over to Chris.
Well thank you.
I think just the context on that is yes we are pleased with what we're seeing in Talcott both in Japan and the U.S.
as far as increased lapses.
I think what we said in our Investor April Day it remains true today is that we do expect to take dividends out of Talcott in early 2015 or possibly late 2014.
But do -- surrenders do help? No doubt about it.
But I think we'd like to see where they sort of normalize out on a basis going forward and we'll revise our thinking probably in early '14.
And once we do we'll let you know if we have any changes to our dividend plans.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one follow-up.
Any -- given the success of the ESV program any interests or opportunities for further Enhance Surrender programs going forward? Erik Beth will take that.
Sure thank you.
So as both Liam and Chris said we've been very pleased with the success of the ESV program.
And we plan to continue to evaluate the potential for other types of programs and we'd expect that we would continue to be very targeted in how we would look at those.
I'd also point out there are other things that we're doing as it relates to just managing the book and looking at ways to reduce the risk.
So we are in the process right now of utilizing certain provisions at our contracts to increase writer fees to turn off some investment options for subsequent payments or transfer of funds as well as enforcing in some limited situations investment allocation restrictions.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> On the Japan surrenders can you give us a sense of -- I know that the annualized surrender level came off a bit in July but would you anticipate that we should approach a more normalized level at some point? Or can we still keep running at these double-digit levels? Beth will take that Jake.
Okay.
Yes so let me give you a little bit of color on the surrender rate.
If we look back over the last several months so as we said 34.8% for the quarter.
But if you look at it by month in April we were running at about 23%.
May we spiked up to 50%.
June was at 29.5%.
And as Chris said for July we're running at about 30%.
So it's hard for us to predict at to what levels things will level off at.
But we are seeing that as markets continue to improve and as markets stay at these levels the activity rates continue to be high.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then separately in Commercial P&amp;C premium growth turned positive for the first time in a few quarters.
I'm trying to get a sense of whether you feel that's sustainable.
And I think there was also a bit of confusion about the pace of rate increases in Standard Commercial having flattened whereas based on some of the prior disclosure it looks like it dipped a bit.
Jay this is Doug.
So a few comments.
One is the overall Standard Commercial is generally flat so we were 8% in the quarter and I think that's about where we were in first quarter.
I did give you some commentary about Middle Market versus Small.
And in the Middle Market we were off sequentially a point or so from first quarter but still very strong at 8%.
So I think you've got to get inside the markets to understand that.
And we feel good about that progress and given the amount of positive change we've had the last couple of years feel good about sustained margin improvement.
The question about new business we had a good new business quarter and our overall Middle Market growth up a touch.
It's -- my comment was it's the first quarter we've seen growth in the Middle Market in quite some time.
We have done a lot of work particularly in our worker's comp book but we feel like a lot of that work is behind us and we're looking good about moving forward.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that.
Just to clarify on that Standard Commercial renewal pricing the disclosure looks a bit different in 2Q than 1Q in terms of the pace of rate increases.
What changed there in terms of how that's being calculated? So we refined our approach to calculations just slightly.
And first I would say that the overall trends are very consistent throughout the periods but have moved to more an effective policy-month basis which means that we continue to follow policies and we'll adjust accordingly on mid-term cancels and cancels flat out an extended period and push the results back into prior periods.
So with those changes from time-to-time you'll have some slight deviations from prior periods and I think it's a much more effective more accurate way for us to watch the book of business performing.
You're next question comes from the line of Mark Finkelstein with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Maybe stick with Doug for the first question.
I guess just on Specialty I'm trying to understand kind of the story a little bit on the program business.
I think I heard you say that much of the actions have been completed and that the pricing levels are hitting targets I may have mis- kind of characterized that a little bit.
But then you look at the combined ratio for the quarter x-cat x-development 105.7%.
So I guess I'm just trying to kind of put those -- put everything together and think about where -- like where is Specialty in terms of the culling of the unprofitable programs and kind of repricing those? And the combined ratio outlook on that? Good question Mark this is Doug.
So keep in mind inside Specialty there really are 3 very different books of business.
Our national casualty book which essentially is an excess casualty book well performing at our targets.
We had a good quarter of new business.
And again those targets the target combined ratios for 10% to 15% return are much higher than our normal Standard or Small Commercial targets.
They're in excess of 105% and they move based on yield levels.
So that's why the overall segment will never perform at a combined ratio equal to Middle because they've got different targets.
Secondly our financial product book.
Over the last couple of years we've done a lot of work and that book has really shaped nicely over the last couple of years as we've moved away from some of the larger financial institution business.
And as you saw we had a release in quarter so we feel good about that book of business.
And then in the programs area there are about 50 programs and we've worked our way through all those 50 programs.
And in some cases we're taking very aggressive corrective strategies in some cases exit.
I'll share with you that in the specialty auto programs where we've had some degree of pain over the last couple of years essentially are exiting those programs have largely nonrenewed those blocks.
So we've taken some balance sheet work in the quarter where we strengthen reserves and I think underwriting lies.
We're in a much better spot moving forward.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on that.
So it's essentially the actions that you need to take whether it's on the culling or the pricing side largely complete at the end of the second quarter is that the message on the kind of the third book of business that you're referring to? Yes I think that's very accurate -- definitely accurate on the auto liability programs.
And obviously as we shift our way through the rest we'll spend more time.
But much better shape of that overall book of business than a year ago.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess maybe just going back to the life side.
I'd seem to recall Chris you mentioning at the Investor Day or maybe it was somebody else but that you go through a third quarter assumption review on the life side.
I'm trying to think about how the surrenders are going to factor into that and is there any early read on how we should think about that? Mark it's Chris.
I'm not sure who talked about it.
But I think the context maybe just for this year's study is if you particularly look at some of the items that we've taken already meaning like the Japan DAC write-off in the first quarter due to expanded hedging when I look at the assumption update I see very minor GAAP and stat impacts just given some of the things we've already dealt with.
I think as we look out net-net higher surrenders will most likely -- I'm hedging a little bit but most likely be positive on a GAAP and stat basis.
But we're in the midst of that study but I generally don't expect any material surprises charges as we complete that study Mark.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just final one one quick question on the quality of the Japan surrenders.
I mean I know that you're going to always be distorted towards -- the more out of the moneyness but is it a cross-section across the book? Or is it really kind of mainly the stuff that's out of the money? So when we look at the -- where the lapses are coming from it really is once we see the account value exceed the guarantee.
And I would say it's very sensitive right at that -- right when we get to that 100% level.
So that is where we see the increase a little bit maybe when they're in that 95% to 100% but it really is when they cross that line.
So as markets continue to improve and we just see more and more of the book and it's hitting that point that's where we're seeing the surrenders come from.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay Cohen.
Research Division</strong> I'm with BofA Merrill Lynch.
A couple of questions.
For the third quarter guidance Chris you had mentioned a somewhat lower run rate for the performance of some of the alternative investment funds.
Is that because these are reported on a lag you have a sense of the performance already? Yes I would say a combination of that and then just the early read into July's performance.
So I would say July was pretty volatile and some of our alternative allocations actually went negative for July.
So as we look really at the remaining 2 months August and September Jay we just are heavily influenced by what we're seeing through June and July.
Research Division</strong> Got it got it.
Second question on asbestos.
You've been at this a long time still taking material charges.
Do you feel as if you are getting down to the short strokes? Do you have any more confidence that next year will be a much lower number than what we've seen this year? Jay it's Chris.
I understand the question and all I could tell you is when we study our process -- I mean you know it's a comprehensive ground up process where we'd look at detailed coverage charge on our individual insurers and see the entire picture.
We react to I'll call it the new data that we're seeing.
And as I -- we wrote about in the queue we're seeing just a little uptick in frequency compared to prior year and again modest severity.
So there's no fundamental trends that are different this year.
It's still a peripheral issue for us.
I would say that plaintiff counsel has continued to be expansive in some of their theories.
So as I really sit here honestly and look at I'll call it our reserves look at our survival ratios I mean I feel good about what we'd reacted to this year and what we're seeing and we've made our best estimate.
But as you know it's awful hard to predict where this is going to go 2 3 years out.
And all I could tell you is well we do our best job every year and make the appropriate adjustments that we see are needed.
Your next question comes from the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
I realize there's so much that goes into the calculation of a market consistent approach.
But recognizing that the statutory accounting gets in the way the reserves in Japan the hedges in the U.S.
that sort of thing can you give us some sense given the significant surrender activity as well as the reduction in the moneyness? Can you give us some sense for percentage-wise maybe how much you think the market consistent value of the VA blocks increased? John it's Chris.
I understand your point.
Again I think the context is as we explained in Investor Day particularly in Japan that we are really sort of market-neutral at that point for Japan.
So as our hedging losses -- as we hedge I mean the hedging losses are virtually offset entirely by gains in our MCV.
And as we looked at results this quarter that pattern all the -- exactly the same.
So that our hedging programs as I said are working as designed.
We're hedging the economics.
We took risk off the table completely in Japan.
And that's a change from the first quarter where we were still under our tail hedge program.
So the losses might seem large but I can tell you that it was virtually offset by an increase in our MCV.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then the second question I have for you is just thinking about the third quarter guidance maybe relative to second quarter results and most specifically just thinking about non-cat weather.
It seems to me that you're either building in maybe it's just some seasonality maybe it's some normalization of non-cat weather but it seems like it's material.
You mentioned a favorable or somewhat favorable non-cat weather in 2Q.
I was just hoping you could maybe quantify for us or give us some sense for how much non-cat weather is playing into the guidance in 3Q versus 2Q? John as I just roll forward I'll call it second quarter to the third quarter I think the 2 big items are lower partnership alternative returns and lower Talcott earnings.
I think if I look at Doug's book of business in Commercial I don't see that much seasonality.
I think Andy probably has a little bit more with driving patterns weather patterns.
So I would say that there's some but I wouldn't describe it as ordinarily immaterial.
The more seasonalities in the second quarter with obviously a higher cats and you saw our cat load for the quarter.
So it's me it's Talcott and it's just lower partnership returns which again we're reacting to data that we've seen through July here.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Meredith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions here.
First I'm just curious the impact of the ESV program here going forward on Talcott results should we see that largely go away in the third quarter? Or when is that going to start going away that $23 million? Brian I think in my guidance and hopefully on the slide I know it is.
We described the ESV expenses for the third quarter estimated to be lower at $7 million after tax.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And will that continue to kind of run down at that trend? Do you think in the fourth quarter is that better? Yes.
Again it's -- I think Beth expects.
And she could describe it the take rate at 30%.
Yes we see the sort of -- a dissipation of that take rate so we don't think it's going to increase material -- materially going forward.
So $5 million $3 million a quarter probably -- is probably a better number going forward.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then Andy hasn't talked -- a quick question for Andy.
On the questions Andy at looking at the underwriting expense they've been dropping at about 5% a quarter for the last couple of quarters in your area is that something we should continue to see going forward? Or is there something unusual happening in the first half? Brian it's Andy.
Thanks.
Yes so you saw a 1 point improvement on a year-over-year basis in the quarter.
I would say about 1/3 of that is sustainable going forward.
The rest of it was sort of one-timers around timing and some other things.
But it's an area that we pay really strict attention to but I would say 1/3 of that is sustainable.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question for you just following up on the ESV program the higher lapses in Japan and all.
Certainly I think the pace is above what many of us have thought.
I'm wondering if it at all changes kind of the leverage you would be considering in terms of accelerating the runoff of the block.
Well certainly Chris it's an important variable.
As Chris Swift said just a few moments ago as we look at the business we're going to monitor both the U.S.
and Japan lapse rates very closely.
And we are positioned -- I would describe as largely unchanged.
We're going to do what's in the best interest of shareholders whether -- and watching lapse rates will be a part of that and exploring potential permanent transfer of the Japan book in particular is something we'll explore as well.
So having said that as a high-level comment I'll -- if Beth has anything to add I encourage her to do so.
No Liam I think you said it very well.
Our view of the ways that we look to manage this block have not changed and we'll continue to look at solutions that are in the best interest of shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just wanted to see if you guys had any comments on any potential impacts from a regulatory standpoint on some of the recent topics that have been out there around maybe your captive implications from new derivative rules.
And then lastly any backlash from the ESV programs that seem to be coming on more frequently from other carriers as well? Chris I'll cover the first 2.
Beth can maybe comment upon the ESV.
So the simple answer is there's really no backlash.
There really isn't anything going on with our captives.
We got rid of one related to the life business.
We have White River which is our Vermont onshore captive that follows USVA accounting rules so I think it's pretty straightforward.
I think all the derivative actions as far as Dodd-Frank we're adopting.
There's really no material impact on liquidity or any issues with those related to derivatives.
Beth? Yes on your last comment no we do not -- have not seen any issues that relate to regulators with the activities that we have underway.
Our process I think is very transparent.
And we continue to be very clear with our policyholders as to what their options are and we will continue to do that.
Your next question comes from the line of Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Some of my questions were answered.
But on the Group Benefits business can you talk about how far along you are in your repricing of the disability block? And what the environment is like in terms of what competitors are doing? And then secondly on commercial auto you've had several quarters of adverse development.
Maybe if you could just give us some insight on what's going on there? Sure Jimmy this is Doug.
Let's start on disability and just give you a sense on where that cycle is.
We started repricing the disability book in the early part of 2011.
But I would say probably more the second quarter into the third quarter did it pick up quite a bit of steam which is why I made the comment today that the January 2014 block really does largely complete that cycle.
So we're working as you know in the midst of that as we speak.
And hopeful that we'll see a continued rational environment which is how I described kind of the marketplace we're competing in today with Group.
In the commercial auto space we have seen some dynamics of severity and weakness in performance across really our middle and small books and have been working aggressively on those strategies if you will.
Obviously I've talked a lot about the program space and those reiterating actions are well underway.
But it's an area that has caught our attention and I would say for the last year or so we've really spent a lot of time focused there.
And I feel like our behavior is clearly in line with improving trends that we're starting to see.
And also the fact that we are state-by-state looking at our rate adequacy in certain places taking rate we're moving our rate to the extent we need to move.
Research Division</strong> Has the development been more concentrated in a certain region or certain customer group? No.
Certainly the development has been concentrated in our program group.
I think it's more of a go-forward look at the trends coming at us and making sure that we're out in front of those trends from a pricing perspective that are margins are improving in auto the same way they are across other lines of business.
Your last question comes from the line of Randy Binner with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just had a quick question.
I think this is best for Doug and it has to do with worker's compensation.
I know that's been an area that you've been working on from a pricing and kind of a risk-reduction perspective and it's worked very well but the top line growth is still low as some of the other questioners kind of pointed out.
And so I'm wondering now that you're expanding margins in workers' comp and the economy is getting better which is kind of a driver of the risk in workers' comp but you might think about increasing your appetite again there especially in a state like California.
So Randy the workers' comp question is a complicated one and I would just ask you to think about the different dynamics across our markets.
In the case of Small Commercial where we're clearly a leader our rate adequacies and our performance has been excellent.
We look forward and still see tremendous opportunity.
And so as we grew in the quarter I feel good about the quarter and good about our returns.
In the middle we've made material changes and our performance has improved greatly.
And I would describe the overall adequacy of the product and the opportunities as much enhanced today versus where they would have been a year ago and certainly 2 years ago.
And one of the reasons that we grew in the quarter is that we're feeling slightly better about the rate adequacies across that overall book including comp.
So yes we'll be looking at opportunities moving forward.
We're clearly looking at those opportunities on an all lines basis where comp is a part of it but not the only product we'll be offering.
And I feel good about our opportunities as we get those competencies really lined up and well in good shape to compete in the marketplace effectively.
Research Division</strong> And is there any commentary you can give us on the states? I know that you've gotten smaller in California in particular.
Is that a place where you might look to be more competitive again on package? So there's several key states.
Obviously the big 4 or 5 are states that we spend a lot of time on California New York Texas et cetera.
But all those states have their own nuances.
And I would just point out in the case of New York State with what looks like an improved workers' comp pricing filing coming through.
We're feeling better about the opportunity for us to do a little bit more in New York.
So all those states have very state-specific strategies.
Their class strategies are overlaid across the states and I think it would be a little bit unfair for me to characterize across the top in terms of exactly California.
But we're feeling much better about the adequacy and the performance of our book and feel like we're clearly a little bit more in an offensive zone than we have been over the last couple of years.
Research Division</strong> Just one follow-up on comp.
With the New York charge is that -- I mean should we think of that as being a kind of a nonrecurring item? That's certainly the way we think about it.
Yes we looked at our histories.
I think you know the law changed and we put up the $80 million to deal with what we think will be the impact for our understanding of essentially the fact that 25-A goes away.
Thank you everyone for joining us today.
We appreciate your interest in The Hartford.
And we are here at The Hartford this afternoon to follow up with any additional questions you might have.
Thank you and have a good day.
That concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Melissa and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Hartford Third Quarter Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Sabra Purtill Head of Investor Relations.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to the Hartford Third Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
Our speakers today include Liam McGee Chairman President and CEO; Doug Elliot President of Commercial Markets; Andy Napoli President of Consumer Markets; and Chris Swift Chief Financial Officer.
Other members of our executive management team are available for the Q&amp;A section of this call including Beth Bombara President of Talcott Resolution; and Jim Davey President of Hartford Mutual Funds.
As described on Page 2 of the slides today's presentation includes forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results could be materially different.
We do not assume any obligation to update forward-looking statements and investors should consider the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from any forward-looking statements.
A detailed description of those risks and uncertainties can be found in our SEC filings which are available in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Finally please note our presentation includes several non-GAAP financial measures.
Explanations and reconciliations of these measures to the comparable GAAP measure are included in our SEC filings as well as in the earnings release and financial supplement.
I'll now turn the call over to Liam.
Thank you Sabra.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
The Hartford delivered very good third quarter results with core earnings up 17% to $505 million or $1.03 per diluted share.
This performance reflects the significant progress we've made transforming The Hartford.
This quarter we saw strong execution in our go-forward businesses and an acceleration of Talcott Resolution's runoff further reducing the overall risk profile of the company.
With this performance year-to-date we expect full year 2013 results to exceed the outlook provided during our April Investor Day.
In P&amp;C Commercial Doug and his team are executing on their strategies to improve margins.
Written premiums rose 1% overall with growth of 2% in both Small Commercial and Middle Market.
Strong pricing gains of 8% in Standard Commercial lines were consistent with the prior 4 quarters and included increases of 9% in both Middle Market worker's compensation and property.
For the quarter the combined ratio was 93.3 excluding CATs and prior year development 4.2 points better than the prior year.
Profitability in workers' compensation has improved dramatically over the past 2 years as you can see in our Middle Market results.
I am encouraged by our continued success in the Middle Market in broadening product reach across workers' compensation property and general liability which is providing new growth opportunities for us.
Recent feedback from key distribution partners at the CIAB Annual Meeting confirmed our forward momentum in the P&amp;C Commercial marketplace.
We have meaningfully improved profitability in Group Benefits with core earnings margin rising to 3.9% this quarter driven primarily by improved disability loss ratios and pricing actions.
I am confident in the favorable underlying profit trends of the business and pleased to see 2 consecutive quarters of new sales growth.
Consumer Markets also had a successful quarter expanding underlying margins and growing written premium by 3% over the prior year.
The combined ratio excluding CATs and prior year development improved to 91.1 more than 2 points better than the prior year period.
Andy and his team have repriced this book of business and our position to balance growth and margin expansion going forward.
I'm also pleased that in September we extended the AARP partnership by 3 years to January of 2023.
Mutual Funds is trending in a positive direction with solid fund performance and sales growth of 35% for the quarter.
In Talcott Resolution Beth and her team continue to reduce the size and the risk of the legacy annuity blocks.
The Japan VA block is in a fundamentally different place today than a year ago.
Over the past year 18% of Japan VA contracts have surrendered.
In the third quarter the annualized surrender rate remained elevated at 31%.
This is a permanent and meaningful reduction in the risk of that block.
In the U.S.
the full VA surrender rate increased again in the third quarter to 20% driven by rising markets and policyholder initiatives like the Enhanced Surrender Value program.
Over the past year 14% of U.S.
VA policies have surrendered.
We continue to evaluate potential transactions that can permanently transfer these exposures and accelerate a release of capital.
There is a growing interest in the marketplace for runoff blocks of annuity liabilities.
We would pursue those transactions that are attractive in terms of sales price and the capital that would be released compared to the underlying economic value of the business.
We are executing our capital management plan with $241 million of equity securities repurchased in the third quarter and $408 million through the third quarter since announcing the program in February.
As additional capital becomes available over time we will take accretive capital management actions to create value for shareholders.
The Hartford has undergone a significant transformation.
The company is more focused with a reduced overall risk profile.
The go-forward business' performance is improving and we are well positioned to generate higher returns for shareholders.
We are on track to have a successful 2013 with momentum carrying over into 2014.
I am very thankful for the hard work and dedication of all my Hartford teammates.
Thank you.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Doug who will review Commercial Markets results.
Thank you Liam and good morning everyone.
Today I'll cover our P&amp;C Commercial and Group Benefits results for the third quarter of 2013.
I'll also provide some insight on various initiatives.
I'm pleased to share that our core margin gains continued during the third quarter.
Our execution remains steady and consistent with margin improvement being the focus across-the-board.
Let's begin on Slide 5.
P&amp;C Commercial had a combined ratio for the quarter of 98.1.
Our results included continued solid underwriting improvement year-over-year with our current accident quarter loss ratio excluding catastrophes at 63.4 5.4 points lower than 2012.
Year-to-date we posted a 63.1 loss ratio 3.2 points lower than the same period last year demonstrating the strong underlying improvement in our margins.
This quarter saw $48 million or 3.1 points of CAT losses.
Of that total $19 million is attributable to current quarter events with the balance due to increased estimates on late-May wind and hail storms that affected Texas and other regions in the Southwest.
Across commercial lines we also strengthened our prior year reserves by $26 million.
This change reflects releases in workers' compensation general liability and Storm Sandy offset by an $86 million addition to commercial auto.
A significant portion of our adverse development in auto occurred in our Programs business which I'll describe more fully in a moment.
We also added modestly to our auto reserves in Small Commercial and Middle Market to address the general rise in bodily injury severity trends we've seen across the marketplace.
Overall our combined ratio for the quarter excluding CATs and prior year development stands in very good shape at 93.3 4.2 points lower than the third quarter of 2012.
Year-to-date we've improved 2.9 points to 93.2 versus the same period in 2012.
Let's move to Slide 6.
Written premiums of $1.6 billion were up 1% in the quarter.
Small Commercial and Middle Market were both up 2% with Specialty down 4% primarily related to profit improvement actions in our Programs and Captive businesses.
Written pricing and Standard Commercial remained very solid for the quarter at 8% generally consistent with prior quarters and well ahead of loss cost trends.
The components of overall pricing shifted slightly with Small Commercial auto up a point to 7% from 6% and workers' compensation in Middle Market declining to 9% from 10%.
All in I'm pleased with our ability to maintain this pace of consistent pricing gains given that we still have more work ahead before we achieve our target returns.
Let me now share some specific thoughts about each of our 3 P&amp;C Commercial business segments starting with our market-leading Small Commercial franchise on Slide 7.
Written premiums of $740 million were up 2% in the quarter.
Retention and pricing remain very steady and new business of $115 million was up 6% versus third quarter of 2012.
Our market momentum in Small Commercial has picked up over the last 4 to 5 months.
We continue to see very positive returns from the rollout of our new quoting platform ICON for our business owner's policy.
Feedback from our agent partners tell us that we've hit a home run here.
Average quote time for a new policy is down to 5 minutes or less.
Quote flow is up 10% in the quarter and our yield ratio is improving as well.
We've embedded new support tools increased our straight-through processing flow and delivered a world-class user experience to our agents.
We now have both workers' compensation and our business owner's policy on this platform and we'll complete the full product suite next year when we roll out commercial auto.
To conclude on Small Commercial our returns in this business continue to be excellent with an all-in combined ratio for the quarter of 92.4 and 87.1 excluding CATs and prior year development.
Moving to Slide 8.
Our Middle Market segment also had a strong performance with current accident quarter combined ratio excluding CATs of 95.9.
Margins continued to improve while we're deepening our market penetration and target segments.
Top line was up 2% in the quarter on the back of strong written pricing gains at 8% well ahead of our loss cost trends.
And new business premiums at $107 million were up 24% compared to 2012.
We're encouraged by improving retention in this business segment.
Policy count retention moved up slightly and premium retentions are also improving to stronger historical levels.
This is a result of a much healthier book of business in the Middle Market after aggressive reunderwriting actions these last 2 years.
Reviewing our trends much of the heavy lifting is behind us from an underwriting perspective.
However we've not backed off from our segmentation actions to correct pricing on underperforming accounts but the good news is that we have fewer of them today.
All-in another quarter of strong progress for Middle Market.
On Slide 9 the performance of our Specialty businesses remains mixed.
Success in national accounts continues with written premium growth of 15% in the quarter.
Rate levels remain consistent and we're pleased with our execution.
Turning to our Programs business we are disappointed at the further deterioration to our results.
We recorded a $60 million addition through our auto liability reserve this quarter largely in connection with 5 transportation programs.
Over the past year we've exited 4 of the 5 transportation programs and we will discontinue writing new and renewal business on the final program effective January 1 2014.
Earned premium from these transportation programs will decline rapidly as expiring business moves to other insurance markets throughout 2014.
We did not react quickly enough to the early signs of adverse trends in this book.
Our profit actions have increased significantly in speed and intensity over the past 6 months.
I'm confident that we are addressing the areas that have caused these adverse financial outcomes.
More importantly I'm confident that we're building a data-driven risk management culture that will act with greater speed and decisiveness moving ahead.
Let me now shift over to Group Benefits business summarized on Slide 10 which had an outstanding quarter.
We've been very disciplined in our management actions and the results are clearly paying off.
Core earnings for the quarter were up 57% over prior year achieving an after-tax margin of 3.9%.
Year-to-date core earnings are up 66% over 2012 driving an after-tax margin improvement of 1.7 points.
Our improved core earnings are largely attributable to a lower disability loss ratio which came in at 87.9% for the quarter favorable to last year by 3.6 points.
We've commented previously that our claim recoveries were improving across our long-term disability book and this trend continued in quarter 3.
In particular actual recoveries for accident years '11 and '12 have emerged better than our previous expectations.
This has caused us to update our reserve assumptions for claim recoveries in accident years '12 and prior which contributed to our loss ratio improvement in the quarter.
This also gives us high confidence in our projection for accident year 2013 and confirms that we're making great progress on our pricing and claim initiatives.
Heading to the favorable outlook we're encouraged by continued signs of declining incidence rates.
As you recall incidence rates have been stable for several years but at historically elevated levels.
As our 2012 data has matured and now with a very early look at 2013 we have continued to see a modest but consistent decrease in incidence rates approaching levels more in line with long-term patterns.
Looking to both recovery and incident trends we believe they established a strong profit driver for us moving forward.
Shifting to the top line.
This is the second consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth in new sales posting $63 million this quarter up 15% from 2012 as conditions in certain sectors of the new business marketplace have improved.
We're also working aggressively on our January 2014 renewal block which is particularly important for the National Accounts segment.
We're maintaining our disciplined approach to pricing and underwriting on our multiyear contracts.
Our execution on renewals and new sales in conjunction with favorable emerging trends in our book of business indicate that we are well along our journey to achieve target profitability levels.
Stepping back from the details this was a solid quarter for Commercial Markets.
Our performance was consistent with the strong start in the first half of 2013 and we continue to see the positive results of underwriting and pricing decisions made over the last few years.
Overall written and earned pricing is still outpacing our loss cost trends and driving margin improvement across our businesses.
We still have much work ahead but I'm excited about our progress.
Let me now turn the call over to Andy Napoli.
Thanks Doug.
Good morning everyone.
Before we get into the details for the quarter I'd like to briefly discuss our broader strategy.
First we couldn't be more pleased with the 3-year extension of our contract with AARP.
This long-standing partnership is the core of our business and has produced strong results over the last 30 years and we expect that to continue.
Our AARP program historically a direct model has gained significant traction in our agency channel which came at a good time as we work to reposition the non-AARP or other agency portfolio.
That effort continues to pay off as we've achieved significant combined ratio improvement in that channel over the past couple of years.
And we now view this channel as a more significant source of profitable growth as we move forward.
More to follow as this strategy unfolds.
Now turning to our results for the third quarter on Slide 12.
We had another quarter of expanding margins while improving growth.
In both auto and homeowners earned pricing exceeded loss cost trends and we were able to accomplish this while maintaining premium retention.
Growth was driven primarily by strong new business production in our AARP Direct and AARP Agency channels.
But especially noteworthy was 2% growth in other agency new business.
The combination of new business and policy retention particularly in auto led to our third consecutive sequential quarter of in-force policy growth.
Core earnings for the quarter were $68 million which included a 2.2-point improvement in our x CAT x prior year combined ratio.
The quarter's core earnings were also impacted by a higher level of CAT losses and a lower level of favorable prior year development than in the third quarter of 2012.
Current accident year CAT losses in the quarter were $18 million primarily related to wind and hail events in Colorado and other Midwest states.
The $18 million is above last year's levels but as the third quarter is typically a seasonally high quarter for CATs this was well below expected levels.
During the quarter we also lowered operational costs while increasing our AARP Direct marketing.
Those actions combined with premium growth have kept our expense ratio flat.
We are committed to driving down our expense ratio further through additional operational and process improvements.
Turning to Slide 13 and focusing on auto profitability.
Our combined ratio x CAT and x prior year improved to 96.8 over 3 points better than last year.
Here is our perspective on loss trends.
For auto liability which combined bodily injury and property damage both frequency and severity are up low-single-digits.
This is relatively benign from our perspective.
Auto physical damage frequency increased but primarily with smaller towing claims so there was a favorable offset in severity.
On a net basis physical damage trend is up but pricing continues to exceed loss costs.
In homeowners our combined ratio x CAT and prior year dropped just over a 0.5-point to 77.6 reflecting strong earned pricing exceeding loss trends and continued favorable non-CAT weather and non-weather frequency.
Now let's transition to growth on Slide 14.
Written premiums grew 3% for the quarter in total and individually for both auto and homeowners.
Written premium has grown 2% year-to-date and we're positioned to maintain that level on a full year basis.
Contributing to the growth were renewal written pricing increases of 5% and 8% in auto and homeowners respectively while maintaining policy retention in both product lines.
New business increased 19% to $100 million in auto and 9% at $35 million in homeowners.
New business production was driven in part by a 42% increase in our AARP Agency channel as well as increased spend and marketing productivity in the AARP Direct channel.
Homeowners growth has moderated following the initial launch of our new Home Advantage product and targeted rate increases in a number of states.
In closing we're pleased with our results for the quarter and the year so far and we're positioned to deliver similar results as we close out the year.
We'll closely monitor our loss trends and we'll take the necessary rate to achieve our combined ratio targets while also continuing our growth momentum across all our channels.
I'll now turn the call over to Chris.
Thank you Andy.
Good morning everyone.
I have 3 main topics to cover this morning: First I will review the quarter's results; second I will cover the performance of the variable annuity books; and third I'll provide a fourth quarter and updated full year 2013 outlook.
Let's begin on Slide 16.
Third quarter 2013 core earnings rose 17% to $505 million.
Core earnings were $1.03 per diluted share an increase of 14%.
Commercial markets which Doug just covered was a major contributor to the growth.
P&amp;C Commercial and Group Benefits achieved higher margins driving core earnings for those segments up 9% and 57% respectively.
Andy covered Consumer Markets which had a strong underlying quarter but lower core earnings due to higher catastrophes and less favorable development.
Touching on the other segments.
Mutual Funds core earnings decreased slightly from the third quarter of 2012 due to higher expenses for marketing and advertising.
Fund performance remains solid driving sales up 35% over the prior year.
Although net flows remain negative they improved 18% over last year and 78% over the second quarter.
Talcott core earnings were up 6% over prior year higher than our July outlook largely due to $22 million of pretax limited partnership income versus our outlook of $0 million to $5 million for the whole company.
In the Corporate segment core losses improved $60 million over the prior period principally due to a total after-tax benefits of $55 million from an insurance recovery and items related to the spin-off from The Hartford's former parent.
Including this quarter results we achieved a trailing 12-month core earnings ROE of 8% which is at the higher end of our 2013 outlook.
Net income for the quarter was $293 million a significant improvement from $13 million last year.
2 principal items reconcile core earnings to net income this quarter: First net realized capital losses totaling $130 million after tax and DAC principally due to Japan VA hedge losses; and second an unlock charge of $67 million mostly due to the annual assumption study which we had completed this quarter.
Turning to Slide 17 you can see that core earnings included a total benefit of $87 million after tax or $0.18 per diluted share for certain items.
The 2 largest items were the $55 million benefit in Corporate that I just mentioned and $43 million in favorable CATs compared to our outlook of $86 million after tax.
Last year's quarter included $44 million in core earnings from Individual Life and Retirement Plans which were sold in January of this year.
Turning to Slide 18.
In September 30 The Hartford's book value per diluted share was $87.87 -- excuse me $38.87 up slightly from June.
Book value per share reflects a decline in unrealized gains on our investment portfolio due to higher interest rates which is shown in the table at the bottom of this slide.
Excluding AOCI book value per diluted share was $38.91 up slightly from June.
Book value per share includes the accretion from share repurchases which totaled $408 million through September.
We expect to repurchase about $200 million or so each quarter going forward subject to legal restrictions and market conditions.
Our principal focus at Talcott is to reduce the size and risk of that block.
And as Liam mentioned we have made significant progress this year.
In the IFS we provided some additional disclosures about policy counts this quarter.
Slide 19 shows that since September 2012 Japan VA contract in-force are down about 18% resulting in a permanent reduction in the size and risk of the block.
Japan's surrenders have been driven by the sharp improvement in in-contract moneyness due to a combination of market factors including higher equity market levels and a weaker yen.
In addition 73% of total contracts are beyond the surrender charge period.
This slide also shows GMDB and GMIB net amount at risk or NAR over the past several quarters.
GMIB NAR is down 92% over the past year to only $0.5 billion at September 30.
Moneyness is another way to measure the improvement in the book.
At the end of the quarter 53% of the GMIB contracts are out of the money which means that the account value exceeds our GMIB guarantee.
This compares favorably with 43% at June 30 and 2% at year end 2012.
In August the first tranches of Japan VA contracts become eligible for annuitization.
To date many contract holders are surrendering rather than annuitizing or deferring their annuitization which is a positive for us and that we come off risk faster than expected.
While the eligible number of accounts is small in 2013 it ramps up substantially in 2014 which will allow us to develop a more informed view of this aspect of customer behavior next year.
2015 is the peak for potential annuitizations with about $5 billion of account value eligible to annuitize.
Again it's too soon to know if our current experience will continue but initial signs have been favorable.
Moving to Slide 20.
Favorable markets and in-force management initiatives are driving similar trends in our U.S.
VA block.
As Liam mentioned the annualized full VA surrender rate increased to about 20% including about 6 points from in-force management initiatives including the ESV program.
During the quarter we finished the ESV program launch extending the offer in 4 more states.
As of quarter end 91% of GMWB contracts are out of the money and 84% of total contracts are beyond the surrender charge period.
GMWB NAR has declined 67% since September 30 2012 while total U.S.
VA contracts in-force have decreased by 14%.
Based on the policyholder behavior across the VA blocks we are confident that Talcott will be positioned to return capital to the holding company in late 2014 or early 2015.
Our capital resources are summarized on Slide 21.
At September 30 they totaled $17.7 billion down $400 million from June.
The decrease was in holding company resources while total insurance company capital was up slightly after the impact of the quarterly P&amp;C dividend to the holding company.
Life surplus was flat this quarter as operating income from non-VA books including the Group Benefits business offset the modest negative impact of VAs.
Life capital margin remains strong with an estimated RBC ratio of 460% in The Hartford Life and Accident group allowing us to complete the Group Benefits legal entity separation project without utilizing holding company resources.
We remain on schedule to complete that project by the end of the first quarter 2014.
The decrease in holding company resources reflects the $320 million debt maturity and $241 million of share repurchases.
Going forward we expect holding company resources to decline due to the equity repurchase program and the March 2014 debt maturity but to remain in line with our liquidity target of approximately 2x annual interest expense and dividend payments.
Before turning to your questions let me provide a brief summary of our fourth quarter outlook which is on Slide 22.
Our current outlook for the fourth quarter core earnings is a range of $420 million to $445 million or $0.87 to $0.92 per diluted share.
This outlook assumes catastrophe losses of $42 million after tax and Talcott core earnings of $165 million to $175 million including approximately $7 million in after-tax costs for the ESV program.
This outlook also assumes limited partnership income of about $60 million before tax which equates to a 9% yield.
We are estimating an average share count of about 485 million shares based on $200 million of share repurchases.
Also expected is a realized gain of approximately $15 million after tax from the sale of the AARP member contract center for health insurance products to a division of UnitedHealthcare.
This center which generates about $15 million of core earnings per year is included in the Consumer Markets segment.
This deal is consistent with our strategy to sharpen our focus on P&amp;C Group Benefits and Mutual Funds.
The transaction is expected to close before the end of the year.
If you add this fourth quarter outlook to our year-to-date results which are summarized on the slide 2013 core earnings would be about $1.7 billion.
This is well ahead of our April outlook of $1.45 billion to $1.55 billion.
Our actual results will depend on a lot of factors including no major CATs in the fourth quarter.
However we are very pleased with our 2013 results and appreciate the significant effort by all of our teammates to achieve these results.
We look forward to delivering both growth and progress on our strategic goals in 2014.
We are in the midst of the planning process and we'll share our 2014 outlook with you on our February call.
To wrap up let me summarize a few themes from the quarter and the year.
Our go-forward businesses are producing strong results with top line growth in P&amp;C and improving margins in P&amp;C and Group Benefits.
Talcott has made significant progress in reducing the size and risk of the legacy annuity liabilities with favorable contract holder behavior resulting in higher surrender rates.
And capital resources remain strong.
And with favorable trends at Talcott we are confident in our ability to return capital from Talcott in late 2014 or early 2015.
Now I'll turn the call over to Sabra so we could begin the Q&amp;A session.
Sabra? Thank you Chris.
We have a little less than 30 minutes for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Melissa could you please give the Q&amp;A instructions? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Tom Gallagher from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask a few questions on Talcott.
The first question is does running off the VA block on your own still make the most economic sense here? But to another way of asking is the bid-ask spread still too wide in your view to pursue risk transfer deals? Well Tom this is Liam.
Our strategy on Talcott remains unchanged.
That's to reduce the size and risk of the VA book.
And as you heard in both my remarks and Chris' remarks Beth and her team have been proactive against that strategy as evidenced by the increased lapse rates the significant reduction in the policy count in the last 12 months whether that's through the Enhanced Surrender Value or policyholder education.
We've also -- we're also consistent in saying that potential transactions that can permanently transfer these exposures and accelerate a release of capital are things that we'll continue to evaluate and we would pursue those transactions that are attractive in terms of sales price and the capital that would be released compared to the underlying economic value of the business.
I'm not going to speculate on any theoretical transactions Tom so I think that's going to be the extent of my remarks on that topic.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Liam suffice to say though given how fast the lapse rates are moving and the -- also to Chris' comment about the now policyholders that could elect to defer or to annuitize who are actually surrendering I'm assuming the view of fair market value continues to grow higher in your view based on those trends.
Again I'm not going to speculate on how the market might value it.
What I'd say is that obviously we have a lot of flexibility because of some of the things you noted and that Chris and I have mentioned as well and we'll look at all options including continue the great proactive work that Beth and her team have done this far and including evaluating potential transactions.
But we would also pursue those that are attractive in terms of sales price and the capital that would be released as compared to the underlying economic value of the book.
Research Division</strong> Understood Liam.
And then just a follow-up for Chris on -- what's the best way that we should be thinking about Talcott? You're looking -- between U.S.
and Japan lapse rates are running at 20% to 30%.
And so if you look forward a year or -- more at a higher level assuming 5% or 6% or so market appreciation that would imply all else equal the year-over-year profit decline would be roughly 15% to 20%.
And I know that's not the way you're thinking about it economically but that would be the way it's presented in your P&amp;L unless I'm missing something else that might be major there.
And so a is that the right way to think about it or there are some other offsets? And b would you all be better off giving net income guidance on this business or guidance that somehow better expresses the way you're thinking about the economics? Tom it's Chris.
A couple of points.
I think you are seeing that the trends right and Beth might be able to comment upon what she sees for fourth quarter lapses but they are elevated particularly in Japan and in the U.S.
So we'll talk more about it in February when we give guidance but I do think your point of view on a substantial decline in Talcott's core earnings is right on.
So I think you're wise to look hard at those forward views given the elevated lapses in Japan and that the recent elevation we've seen in the U.S.
Beth would you care to comment upon fourth quarter lapses and what you've seen? Yes sure.
So as we look at the activity that we've seen in October we continue to be very pleased with the level of surrenders that we're seeing.
In the U.S.
we're slightly under the 20% that we saw for all of Q3.
And in Japan we're running maybe around 25% or so.
So again I think as markets stay where they are continue to rise we'd expect our surrender rates to continue to be very elevated.
And as Chris pointed out that does have the impact of reducing earnings going forward.
But more importantly it reduces the risk which is what we're focused on.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay Cohen from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions I guess probably for Doug.
Two lines of businesses I would like to ask about on the Commercial side.
First is workers' compensation.
I've seen some industry data that suggests that claims frequency after spiking in 2010 came down in '11 and '12 and I want to get a sense of what you're seeing in that line.
And then secondly in the commercial auto business in the Program business where the biggest reserve addition was taken can you talk about the tail on that business? How long it is? Sure Jay.
This is Doug.
Let me talk about workers' comp to start with.
We are seeing very positive signs in our comp book over the last couple of years particularly around frequency.
And obviously we spend time looking at it across our markets but certainly in our Small Commercial and Middle Market businesses our frequencies in the last 4 to 6 quarters have been flat to down so I think consistent with some of the signals you're seeing in the marketplace.
But we think both our underwriting actions and some of things we've done in the last couple of years have clearly driven our change.
So good news on the frequency front in workers' comp.
In terms of the automobile transportation programs we do have our arms around it.
This is more an exit strategy than it is a fixed strategy.
At the moment I'll share with you by 1/1/14 we'll be out of the 5 programs that have caused really much of our financial adverse positioning here.
There is clearly a BI severity dynamic in the marketplace not just in the Programs area but across commercial auto in general and we're underwriting and pricing our way through that.
The tail when I think about commercial auto clearly it's not a workers' comp tail but it's also not a property tail.
So I think of it in that 3- to 4-year period of time and we're aggressively looking at '09 '10 '11 and '12 as we speak.
So I feel like we took actions to deal with the increased severity over that period of time and this book will run out over the period of the next 12 months.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Meredith from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One I guess is for Doug.
Doug I'm just curious in the Commercial line's underlying loss ratios obviously very substantial improvement year-over-year.
How much would you attribute that to just kind of lower than kind of trend loss costs? Brian very difficult to articulate.
I do believe that in our positive trends more than rate is coming through.
We have an have aggressive analytics program where we quintile our book of business and we look at retentions and price changes across classes industries and geographies.
And so probably much of the change is rate driven.
But I think an appreciable component of our 3-plus-points of improvement year-over-year is driven by what I would say underwriting quality of change in the book.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So more just is the changes in terms and conditions you're doing not so much just it's been a lucky kind of weather situation non-CAT weather? Yes certainly in the properties side.
I mean we've strengthened our ability to underwriting our product in the marketplace relative to Property over the last 3 years.
And so deductible changes policy form et cetera all contribute on the Property side.
I was kind of giving you more of global across all lines of view of just increased attention to our risk product in the marketplace.
And I think the analytics behind some of our choices have clearly driven some of that positive change in our loss ratio.
Research Division</strong> Great and then for Chris.
Because I'm wondering if you could give us a sense of what you think the market consistent value is for the Japanese and the U.S.
runoff books right now.
Is it appreciably higher than it was at Investor Day? I think directionally I can comment upon that Brian.
We'll periodically update numbers when appropriate.
But generally I would say for Japan it's less negative.
And for the U.S.
it's greater greater positive.
So I mean that's where we stand here right now at the third quarter and we are contemplating updating that at least once a year.
And give us a little time and we'll put it out there at the appropriate time.
Research Division</strong> Is there any way we can kind of -- is it 20% higher in the U.S.? 10%? It's meaningful.
I'd say in that range yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Erik Bass from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could talk a little bit more about just your expectations for capital return from Talcott.
And I guess specifically the factors that affect the timing of paying dividends.
Well Chris will I'm sure want to give more detail.
I'd reiterate what he and I have said is that we are confident that Talcott is positioned to return capital to the holding company in late 2014 or early 2015.
I'd remind you Erik that there's a lot of work in process whether it's closing the U.K.
sale or the completion of the Group Benefits realignment et cetera.
So there is still some work afoot.
And with that Chris if you want to add any more perspectives to Erik's question.
I think you're right to mention the moving parts Liam.
So I always just start by saying what's different today Erik? I mean for '14 for both Group Benefits and Mutual Funds I mean we're going to have cash flows coming to the ultimate parent company holding company that we didn't have in prior years.
So there's probably about $150 million in new cash flows that are coming out of those I'll call it former Talcott entities.
With relation then to Talcott the remain Co.
we always think about it in terms of the Japanese balance sheet and the U.S.
balance sheet.
I think for Japan one of the things just to keep in mind is there is a little bit of a constraint on dividends.
Meaning you have to have positive retained earnings.
We just barely turned positive at the end of the third quarter 2013 here.
So our current thinking is we will inform the regulators we don't have to seek their approval when we're in positive retained earnings.
But we will bring them a 2014 early '15 plan for capital extraction out of Japan make sure they understand it and begin to execute it in the second half of 2014.
And then with regard to the U.S.
similar constraints.
After we spin off Group Benefits into its own legal entity I mean we're in extraordinary dividend land because again we have negative retained deficits at HLIC and ILA.
So we'll at the appropriate time work with the regulators to extract capital.
But that would have to be in the form of extraordinary dividend.
Does that help? Research Division</strong> Yes that's helpful.
And then I guess just over time how quickly should we think about capital and reserves being freed as policies lapse? So maybe not thinking specifically in 2014 but just on kind of an ongoing basis what is the lag between kind of seeing lapses and then when those reserves could -- reserves or capital could potentially become available for dividends? Yes we'll cover a little bit more of our outlook of earnings and capital in February.
But I would say that I think generally you have to keep in mind I'll call it we always talk about it Beth and I units of risks right? We're still managing units of risk and we run our stress scenarios that we are always going to manage to.
So lapses by definition will always have a lag factor compared to units of risk in a stress scenario.
And we'll describe that the best way we can in February.
Your next question comes from the line of John Nadel from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One just on the -- I'm thinking about especially in relation to Tom's question about the pace of runoff maybe pace of account value decline in the runoff VA box and thinking about that sort of 15% to 20% type of pace of decline in Talcott earnings as a result.
And I'm sort of connecting that to the fourth quarter outlook for Talcott which suggests something on an annualized basis anyway that's a much faster pace of runoff when we adjust for some of the one-timers.
Just wondering if there's anything you can help us understand there as it relates to the fourth quarter outlook versus the third quarter which looks like it was more in the $200 million $205 million range if we take out the ESV costs and maybe some strong results in the Other line.
Yes John it's Chris.
I think you got to think in terms of just going to the fourth quarter that the third quarter had I'll call it a couple of one-timers in it particularly for I'll call it investment income partnerships.
But generally as lapses occur we're going to have less fee income.
We are projecting just less net investment income in total in Talcott from regular spread products and then any other income.
And we did have a couple of one-time benefits for taxes and other I'll call it miscellaneous income benefits that just aren't expected to recur.
So I really do believe the one -- the range that we gave which at the midpoint $170 million $175 million is really what you need to think in terms of just a basic core run rate going forward and really adjust for lapses from that rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe we'll follow up a little bit off-line.
And then just one other question on the -- you've updated us in the past on your progress on expense initiatives relative to your targets.
There's nothing here in the third quarter presentation.
But can you just update us at this point how much of your expense saves is in your third quarter results? And how much more should we expect as we move through 2014? Thanks for asking the question.
I think we feel very good about all our expense initiatives here related to stranded costs related to our sales that we completed earlier this year.
So we're right on track.
They are beginning to earn in.
And I think in February when we get together and talk more about our run rate for '14 and even a little bit '15 I think will give you a better sense of the additional expense initiatives that we're planning above and beyond just getting the stranded corporate costs out from a deal perspective.
But there is new rounds of initiatives that we're planning that really will take us forward for the next 3 years with goals to become a more efficient organization.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I can sneak one more in just thinking about the Japanese VA business.
I think if I recall correctly you guys hold contingency reserves in the Japanese sub.
I think that number was somewhere around $700 million.
Has that changed? Well first of all is that right? And secondly has that changed meaningfully as a result of this faster pace of surrender activity? Have you started to build in to the actuarial assumptions this higher pace of surrenders? I'll give you 2 data points just for clarity.
You are right.
It's a little light of $700 million on a U.S.
dollar basis.
It has been trending down just a little bit as the book runs off.
So you're right.
And then the way we think about capital that supports the Japan I'll call it block of business 2 pieces right? The $1.2 billion of capital in the legal entity that we disclosed.
And then there's still going back to what we disclosed in our Investor Day for Talcott about $600 million of U.S.
statutory capital that's backing -- that reinsurance business into the U.S.
So those are the couple key metrics that I'll just share with you John.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay Gelb from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> For the Japan business how would that $1.8 billion of total stack capital compare to a U.S.
GAAP capital? Jay it's Chris.
I would say it would be -- the U.S.
capital would be slightly higher in the range of $2.4 billion.
Again in total in aggregate supporting all the call it Japanese risks no matter if they're in the island of Japan or if they're in the U.S.
But in aggregate I would say approximately $2.4 billion of GAAP capital.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on that same metric what would you allocate the U.S.
variable annuity business capital position? I don't have that right in front of me Jay.
So I guess I'd want to be more thoughtful.
But again I think if you go back to Investor Day I think if you look at some of our disclosures adjust for Group Benefits now adjust for Japan you're really left then with I'll call it runoff Talcott.
But I'd rather be more thoughtful and just give you that number when we talk about our earnings and guidance for 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On a statutory basis of the $6.9 billion U.S.
Life capital position can you give a rough breakdown of what that consists of currently? Yes.
And I think I know where you're going so of the U.S.
statutory capital how we think about it is x Japan x I'll call it U.K.
operation HLL and x recapitalization of Group Benefits what Talcott will be left with is about $4.5 billion of statutory surplus.
So when we get through the Group Benefits separation when we sell and close on HLL in the fourth quarter which is still on track and you exclude sort of the Japan statutory capital that's allocated in the U.S.
to it you're left with $4.5 billion backing I'll call it the U.S.
runoff liabilities which are again are variable annuities and fixed payout annuities.
Your next question comes from the line of Christopher Giovanni from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Liam a follow-up for you in terms of you mentioned kind of a growing interest in the market for runoff annuity blocks.
I'm curious if you could dissect a bit in terms of those that are showing interest.
So maybe the mix of kind of PE-backed players reinsurers or traditional insurers.
And then how many of these guys are really just looking for kind of a lopsided deal versus maybe a more credible bidder and counterparty? Chris I think you can understand for a variety of reasons it's not appropriate for me to talk about it.
Such transactions or conversations involve The Hartford characterizing counterparties describing motivations I just don't think would be appropriate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess for Chris.
Just an update in terms of the legal entity separation.
You had mentioned to kind of strip out the Group Benefits piece.
Any timeline for when you expect to have that done? Yes Chris.
We feel very good about it.
We've gotten I'll call it the legal entity approved in New York.
And we got to get some product filings approved.
We got to finish couple a little operational activities with admin systems.
But I would say mid- to late-first quarter we'll have that all done.
Your last question comes from the line of Mark Finkelstein from Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Maybe the first question for Doug.
Doug in the specialty programs that you've set for termination already terminated what is the total value of the premium looking a year from now that won't be on the books anymore? The total value of all 5 of those transportation programs that we're exiting is approximately $50 million annually so think of that out -- and several of those decisions have been made over the prior quarter.
So the last program to cease writing new and renewal 1/1/14.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that -- the $50 million is still essentially in there? So that full value will go away over the next kind of 4 to 6 quarters or whatever? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then I guess a final question for Chris.
Chris could you just talk about J GAAP earnings a little bit? I feel like maybe we've actually kind of crossed over into positive surplus in Japan.
Maybe a little quicker.
I don't know if that's right or wrong if you can comment on that.
And then secondly kind of what are J GAAP -- or what have J GAAP earnings been kind of over the last 2 quarters? I think between Beth and I we -- I'll try to give you a frame.
But we are as I said at September 30 about $10 million of positive retained earnings.
Some of that is again just more fee income more spread income off the general account products.
Some of it is the I'll call it contingency reserves that are I'll call it running off.
So as we look forward that's why we want to finish 2014 get through March which is their fiscal year that those accounts all closed up see exactly where we are we will have a better then forward view of the next 12 months with just the next fiscal year for earnings.
And then take a comprehensive 12-month capital extraction plan in to the regulator and inform them what we're going to.
And then begin to execute it in the latter half of '14.
But Beth from a run rate side on GAAP -- J GAAP earnings any color you could provide? Yes just -- if you go back to June just as a starting point we had negative retained earnings of about $60 million.
So that's kind of the quarterly earnings that we see if we got the positive $10 million so you're looking at $60 million to $70 million a quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And have you turned positive a little quicker than your original plan was? I would say generally right on schedule.
Maybe a smidge sooner Mark.
But generally right on plan.
I mean if you think about it I really consider it breakeven right now.
So we broke even.
We'll then have 2 additional quarters of I'll call it activity to take to the FSA.
We'll look then at the next forward activity.
So you really could see and get a sense that we're already looking 6 quarters ahead for what that balance sheet looks like and then how much capital we could take out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then actually one last question if I could sneak it in.
Can you just talk about incidence trends in Group? And how they compared sequentially with the second quarter which was obviously very strong? Mark this is Doug.
I would say that sequentially the incidence trends in the third quarter compare very consistent with second quarter right? So we're finally seeing some improvement relative to those patterns.
And third quarter sat right on top of second quarter.
Hey Mark just to tell you another point.
Just -- as Doug and I look at that business I mean just to remind you I mean fourth quarter is our seasonally highest and best quarter in Group Benefits.
So again there'll be I'll call it seasonality and incident in termination improvements that will ultimately come through when we report fourth quarter earnings.
And Mark the other point I'd make is that as you know because of the waiting periods the retention components of these programs the back half of the year is important for us to stay on top.
We're just beginning to take a peek at the '13 year given how these contracts are set up.
Thank you.
Thank you all for joining us today.
We appreciate your interest in The Hartford.
Sean and I are available after the call for any follow-up questions you might have.
And I would also note that Liam McGee is scheduled to present to the Goldman Sachs Conference on December 10.
So we look forward to seeing you there as well.
Thank you and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Ginger and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Hartford Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Financial Results and Outlook Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Ms.
Sabra Purtill Head of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you Ginger and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us for The Hartford's 2013 financial results and 2014 outlook conference call.
I would just note that our prepared comments this morning run a little bit longer than normal so we have allowed for some extra time on the back of the call beyond 10:00 for the Q&amp;A session.
Our speakers today include Liam McGee Chairman President and CEO; Doug Elliot President of Commercial Markets; Andy Napoli President of Consumer Markets; and Chris Swift Chief Financial Officer.
Other members of our executive management team are also available for the Q&amp;A section of this call including Beth Bombara President of Talcott Resolution.
As described on Page 2 of the slides today's presentation includes forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results could be materially different.
We do not assume any obligation to update forward-looking statements and investors should consider the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from any forward-looking statements.
A detailed description of those risks and uncertainties can be found in our SEC filings available in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Also note that our presentation includes several non-GAAP financial measures.
Explanations and reconciliations of these measures to the comparable GAAP measure are included in our SEC filings as well and also in the earnings release and financial supplement.
I'll now turn the call over to Liam.
Thank you Sabra.
Good morning everyone.
And thanks for joining our earnings call.
2013 was an outstanding year for The Hartford.
We executed our strategy and delivered superior results for shareholders.
Heading into 2014 we have positive momentum with expanding margins in P&amp;C and Group Benefits and improving performance in Mutual Funds.
With the company's strong financial position and improved capital generation outlook we are pleased to announce a new 2-year capital management plan which includes $2 billion of equity repurchases and $656 million of debt repayments.
As you know already last night we reported excellent fourth quarter and full year 2013 results.
Full year core earnings increased 26% to $1.7 billion or $3.55 per diluted share.
Core earnings in the P&amp;C Group Benefits and Mutual Fund businesses increased 41% year-over-year.
The increases in P&amp;C and Group Benefits were driven by disciplined underwriting expanding margins and lower CATs which was a welcome reprieve after several years of elevated CAT losses.
As Doug will discuss this was the sixth consecutive quarter of 8% renewal written price increases in P&amp;C Standard Commercial.
Our pricing philosophy is unchanged and written pricing continues to outpace loss cost trends.
In Talcott Resolution the size and risk of the annuity blocks have been significantly reduced.
The number of VA contracts in Japan declined 26% in 2013 as surrenders increased due to market performance in the moneyness and aging of the block.
In the U.S.
the number of VA contracts declined 14% driven by improving markets as well as the successful ESV program.
We've achieved over 90% of our $850 million expense reduction target including cost related to the divested businesses.
Plans are in place to take out the rest this year.
We are instilling a culture of continuous improvement that will ensure we operate more effectively and efficiently going forward.
We also prudently managed The Hartford's capital resources in 2013 reducing holding company debt by $820 million and returning a total of $856 million to shareholders including common and preferred dividends and $633 million in equity repurchases.
For 2014 The Hartford's strategy is unchanged.
We are focused on driving profitable growth further reducing risk in Talcott and increasing operational effectiveness with the goal of continuing to deliver shareholder value.
Our core earnings outlook is $1.65 billion to $1.75 billion.
Adjusting for light CATs favorable limited partnership returns and prior year development in 2013 we expect growth in earnings from P&amp;C Group Benefits and Mutual Funds will offset the anticipated decline in Talcott earnings as the legacy business runs off.
The Hartford is well positioned to achieve additional margin improvement in 2014.
Markets are competitive but our emphasis is on small and mid-sized businesses and individual consumers markets where we have competitive advantages and positive momentum.
We are a leader in the Small Commercial space where our core strengths and customer value ease of doing business and a contemporary distribution platform place us at the top of the industry.
We have also added new talent to the existing Middle Market team enabling us to diversify product offerings to complement our historic workers' compensation strength all of which makes us a more attractive partner for agents and brokers.
In Consumer Markets our AARP Agency channel initiative further leverages our exclusive relationship with AARP and gives us a unique value proposition in the marketplace.
And to build on these competitive advantages we are investing over $1 billion through 2016 to improve our execution capabilities including P&amp;C underwriting and claims management.
In Group Benefits we expect the rebound in profitability to continue driven by disciplined pricing and book management as well as improving disability loss ratios.
In addition we are continuing to develop new products to increase The Hartford's penetration in the voluntary market.
In Mutual Funds our strong partnership with Wellington is delivering solid long-term fund performance.
Sales and assets grew in 2013 and we expect this momentum to continue.
In Talcott we will continue to focus on reducing the size and risk of the annuity blocks.
Surrenders in Japan and the U.S.
are expected to remain elevated given the moneyness of the annuity contracts.
Also while global markets in 2014 have been volatile we are well protected with the combination of our hedge program and strong balance sheet.
Capital generation from the businesses will continue to supplement our financial flexibility.
Our P&amp;C businesses have consistently been dividend sources for the holding company.
In addition we expect both the Group Benefits and Mutual Fund companies to pay dividends directly to the holding company in 2014.
With the significant reduction in VA risk particularly in Japan we also expect Talcott to begin paying dividends in 2014.
Having narrowed the focus of the company we see many opportunities to run the organization more effectively and efficiently.
As Chris will detail we will reduce the run rate of the controllable expense base by eliminating $200 million over the next 3 years from the year-end level of about $3.6 billion.
So The Hartford is executing on its strategic plan and is on a clear path forward.
I am very proud of how much the team has accomplished to get the company to this point but we still have a lot of work to do.
I am very optimistic and excited about The Hartford's further potential.
Our goal is to achieve top-quartile financial performance driven by growth in book value per share and ROE.
And we have the strategy and execution capabilities in place to achieve this goal.
Thanks again for your interest in The Hartford and thanks for joining our call.
We look forward to sharing our progress with you in 2014 and beyond.
And I'll now turn the call over to Doug.
Doug? Thank you Liam and good morning everyone.
Today I'll cover the 2013 highlights for P&amp;C commercial and Group Benefits and then share some thoughts for 2014.
We finished 2013 in very strong fashion and our overall theme remains unchanged.
Significant core margin improvement across the business.
For P&amp;C commercial 2013 was a very solid year with $827 million of core earnings and a combined ratio of 96.1.
This was an increase of $316 million from 2012 largely driven by 6.8 points of improvement in the combined ratio.
The underlying combined ratio which excludes catastrophes and prior development was 93 for the year representing 3.6 points of fundamental margin improvement.
As always there are many moving pieces inside our business that contribute to our aggregate result but the final analysis demonstrates a simple fact: We made substantial progress this year in expanding underlying margins across our P&amp;C commercial business units.
While catastrophes were much lighter in 2013 we achieved real success on the front lines where pricing and underwriting decisions are executed.
Turning to the top line our written premium of $6.2 billion was consistent with 2012.
Two significant factors contributed to this outcome.
First was our relentless focus on achieving pricing gains.
We made difficult choices to walk away from certain accounts where we could not meaningfully improve pricing adequacy causing our retention to suffer a bit.
Second we continued to reduce our Programs and Captives book of business generating over $80 million of written premium year-over-year.
We believe these decisions were appropriate for the loss trends and interest rate environment that have characterized the last 2 years and our margin improvement in 2013 supports that conclusion.
These actions offset top line growth in other areas.
We've been encouraged by our overall new business momentum over the back half of 2013 and specifically with 3 consecutive quarters of Middle Market written premium growth continued success in our National Accounts business and exciting traction developing with the rollout of our new automation platform in Small Commercial.
On balance we're extremely pleased with our overall progress in the market.
Let me share a few additional details with specific comments across our 4 business units starting with Small Commercial.
Small Commercial continues to be a centerpiece for our franchise.
2013 was another year of organic growth while achieving a combined ratio of 90.6.
Renewal written pricing gains of 7% for the full year more than addressed loss trends and new business for the year was almost $0.5 billion.
Many competitors in this market sector don't have an in-force block that size.
Moving to Middle Market.
I'm excited with our progress.
We delivered dramatic improvement in margins and made deliberate incremental steps in the last 3 quarters to increase the pace of our top line.
The all-in combined ratio was 98.3 for the year and our underlying combined ratio of 95.4 has improved 7.5 points since 2011.
Our renewal written pricing for the full year remains strong at 8% achieving more on lesser performing accounts and focusing on higher retention for better performing accounts.
No question we experienced a more competitive pricing environment at the end of the year but we continue to execute account-by-account with our deep segmentation approach.
The top line in Middle Market showed positive progress during the year benefiting from solid retention and new business production of $422 million up 26% from 2012.
Our push toward property and general liability continues and the new business growth rate in these 2 lines outpaced workers' compensation.
Of our total new business writings workers' compensation represented 31% a much more balanced outcome and reflection of our growing multi-line capabilities.
Within Specialty Casualty our business units experienced very divergent results.
National Accounts posted a terrific year with strong performance in both the top and bottom line.
Premium retention was in excess of 90% and strong new business success drove written premium growth of 8%.
In fact for every account loss during the year we wrote nearly 4 new accounts; just an excellent year.
Our Financial Products group also had a strong year with an all-in combined ratio in the mid-80s.
The underlying combined ratio was 96 down more than 6 points from 2012.
As we have discussed on previous calls our Programs and Captives business has been under stress during 2013.
Much of this pressure has centered on commercial auto and in particular 5 programs that we have now discontinued.
We will continue to refine our Programs and Captives area but I believe we have completed the actions necessary to deal directly with the key profitability issues in the book.
Now let me pivot to Group Benefits where we had an outstanding year.
Core earnings for 2013 were up over 50%.
Even after adjusting for some favorable items our earnings were well ahead of 2012 and our targets for 2013.
Sales for the year hit $393 million nearly the same as 2012.
However the fourth quarter was the third quarter in a row of increasing year-over-year sales supporting our growing optimism as we look ahead.
It's also a testament to our outstanding sales force who have remained focus and committed to our success throughout our journey.
All in this has been a very gratifying outcome for a business that is not only a market leader but one historically has been a top performer here at The Hartford.
So as we close the chapter on 2013 we're very encouraged not only by our strong financial progress but also by the strength of our underlying execution across the entire Commercial Markets franchise.
Importantly the key brokers and agents who distribute our products are sharing with me that they can sense our expanded product breadth and our disciplined yet proactive attitude in the marketplace.
Let me conclude my comments with a few thoughts on 2014.
First as Liam mentioned we're investing heavily in our capabilities as an enterprise much of that geared to the business units of Commercial Markets.
We're addressing important product development opportunities building more efficient business platforms and creating easy-to-use technology applications for distributors customers and employees.
As an example this year we will begin rolling out a new claims management platform that crosses most of our P&amp;C businesses.
This investment in our future gives us greater tools to improve customer experience manage indemnity costs and lower internal operating expenses.
Second I'm excited about our go-to-market strategy in each business unit.
Our Small Commercial business is uniquely positioned with market-leading products services and technology that enable us to deliver superior results.
This year we will roll out a new product for our commercial auto along with the completion of our new business quoting and issuance platform ICON.
We will advance our online service capabilities expand our distribution and deliver new value to agency partners.
Our Middle Market business is well positioned to compete effectively on a multiproduct basis announcing our historical strengths in workers' compensation with growing skills in property and general liability.
During 2013 we were able to attract a number of product and underwriting professionals across all lines of business to our ranks.
Now partnered with our outstanding field team we are making our presence felt in the marketplace feeding more effectively on accounts that might have passed us by in previous years.
Specialty Commercial will build off the successful position in National Accounts.
In our niche of a $1 million to $5 million accounts size we have demonstrated a unique package of products service and claim expertise that resonates with our customers.
Few companies bring our suite of tools and the financial strength to this sector of the marketplace.
Within Program and Captives we expect to further reduce our active accounts as we move away from those that do not meet our financial or strategic goals and focus on the profitable relationships that align well with our core underwriting and claims management capabilities.
And in Group Benefits we're excited about the accelerated pace of our profit improvement while we are investing aggressively in the products and services that are important for our future.
Based on our early analysis persistency on National and Middle Market accounts renewing in January 2014 is expected to be between 75% and 80% a significant improvement from January 2013.
This bodes well for overall book persistency throughout the year.
From a marketplace perspective we will continue our drive into voluntary capabilities and position this business to adapt to the rapidly changing benefits marketplace.
Third we're prepared for a more competitive market in 2014 particularly in the large guaranteed cost sector.
Our rate adequacy has improved substantially over the past 2 years and clearly we have fewer accounts that need significant pricing actions.
Given the level of written price increases we achieved in 2013 and our focus on maintaining pricing ahead of loss cost in '14 we believe that margins will continue to improve but to a lesser degree than the prior 2 years.
We will aggressively monitor our loss trends particularly as they may be affected by changes in the medical industry for both workers' compensation and disability.
The Affordable Care Act is in its infancy and it's nearly impossible to fully anticipate its ultimate impact on our business.
Nonetheless we're studying multiple scenarios very closely for how this legislation may change consumer broker and medical provider behavior.
We believe that both risks and opportunities will emerge and we will be prepared to adapt accordingly.
And finally across all of Commercial Markets we will continue to enhance our execution skills and leverage our much strengthened talent base.
Over the past year we've attracted a number of top-notch executives across all of our business units deep experts in distribution product management and operation.
These colleagues are blending well with our strong team to build market momentum with our customer and distributor-focused go-to-market strategies.
In summary we're very pleased with our progress in 2013 and more excited than ever about our future.
Let me now turn the call over to Andy Napoli.
Thanks Doug and good morning.
Today I'd like to cover Consumer Markets results for 2013 and then discuss our plans for 2014.
The bottom line is we're very pleased with our 2013 results that reflect our focus on profitable growth.
During the year we expanded margins and generated higher-than-expected written premium growth.
Growth was fueled by strong new business production coupled with improved retention.
Margin expansion of 2.2 points for the year was primarily driven by 5 points of favorable catastrophe results and a slight increase in underlying margins offset by a decline in favorable prior year development.
In homeowners coming off of very favorable 2012 strong earned pricing coupled with continued favorable frequency for both weather and non-weather claims were more than offset by increases in severity.
In auto we're pleased with our margin expansion as our combined ratio excluding CATs and prior year development declined nearly 1 point driven by expense reductions.
Full year auto liability frequency for 2013 came in as expected.
However frequency for the second half of the year impacted by higher miles-driven as the economy continued to improve developed a bit higher than the favorable results we saw in the first half of the year.
In the fourth quarter we increased our current accident year reserves to reflect this development.
Written premium growth was driven primarily by strong new business in our AARP Direct and AARP Agency channels.
In other agency new business premiums decreased 2% for the year.
However both the third and fourth quarter recorded positive growth over the comparable 2012 period.
The combination of new business growth and a 1-point improvement in policy retention led to a year-over-year increase in auto policies in-force for the first time since March 2009.
As we look ahead to 2014 we are pleased that AARP Direct auto ended 2013 near its combined ratio target.
Going forward our focus in this channel is to balance profit achievement and growth by pricing ahead of expected loss trends while not compromising retention.
Our new auto class plan is designed to more accurately match price to risk while simultaneously increasing our competitiveness among the 50- to 59-year-old AARP age segments.
The continued implementation of our telematics program called TrueLane will also help attract and retain better auto risk.
Going into 2014 we expect slightly negative frequency combined with low single-digit severity to produce a mildly positive overall auto loss trends for the year and for this loss trend to be exceeded by pricing yielding auto margin expansion.
Shifting to homeowners the primary focus here is margin expansion.
While we've made good progress over the past several years work remains to achieve profit targets in this line.
In addition to high single-digit rate increases we'll continue to evolve terms and conditions by increasing withheld deductibles in targeted states promoting account-rounded business and tempering roof claims severity through reduced coverage product offerings.
Understanding that there will be significant year-to-year variation in homeowners loss cost due to weather patterns we expect rate increases to exceed loss trends and yield underlying margin expansion.
2014 will also include strategic investments in digital capabilities across all channels and tactical steps to enhance our other agency channel offering.
Our investment in digital will greatly enhance our customer and agent self-service capabilities with a growing focus on mobile technology.
In the other agency channel our strategy is to carefully expand our auto class plan to more accurately and competitively price an incrementally broader market with the intent of generating additional profitable growth for consumer going forward.
In closing we're proud of the progress we made in 2013 to improve margins expand top line growth and grow policies in-force.
Our strategic objective remains unchanged: To achieve above average industry growth while also recording an all-in combined ratio of 92.
I'll now turn the call over to Chris.
Thank you Andy.
This morning I'll cover several topics.
First I'll quickly review 2013 results and discuss our '14 outlook including our capital management plan for 2014 and '15.
Second I'll provide a year-end update on several important metrics for Talcott and the company including capital margins and finally I'll cover our first quarter 2014 outlook.
Let's begin on Slide 19.
Doug and Andy have covered the results for our Commercial and Consumer Markets.
Let me now briefly touch upon the other segments.
Mutual Funds core earnings rose 5% in 2013 in line with our original outlook as we continue to strengthen and position this business for future growth opportunities.
Retail mutual funds net flow performance improved in 2013 driven by higher sales and better distribution effectiveness supported by solid fund performance throughout the year.
Assuming normal market conditions we expect 2014 core earnings growth of roughly 10% driven by improved earnings in retail mutual funds partially offset by the runoff of VA mutual funds.
Turning to Talcott on Slide 20.
Core earnings declined 9% in 2013 which was less than expected attributable to higher partnership returns lower DAC amortization and higher market levels.
As Liam mentioned we have made significant strides to reducing the size and risk of Talcott which will enable us to begin returning capital from Talcott in the second half of 2014 initially from HLIKK our Japan subsidiary.
Talcott 2014 core earnings is expected to decline approximately $165 million or 20% from 2013 core earnings reflecting lower fees due to higher surrenders.
This outlook projects an additional 31% decline in policy counts in Japan and 12% in the U.S.
which will permanently reduce risk but will also continue to reduce earnings in 2014 and 2015.
Slide 21 summarizes the Corporate segment which includes interest expense and other items not allocated to the businesses.
In 2013 Corporate had core loses of $250 million compared with core losses of $313 million in 2012.
The difference was principally due to the reduction in interest expense as well as a net $41 million benefit from insurance recoveries settlements and tax-related items offset by higher incentive compensation cost in 2013.
We expect corporate core losses in '14 to be approximately $270 million.
Looking at full year 2013 on Slide 22.
Core earnings were $1.74 billion up 26% reflecting improved margins lower catastrophes and higher limited partnership returns from the prior year.
For the full year core earnings ROE was 9% up 7% from 2012.
Full year 2013 core earnings included catastrophe and other items that totaled the favorable $19 million or $0.04 per diluted share as highlighted on the slide.
Excluding these items as well as limited partnership returns in excess of 6% target core earnings were approximately $1.65 billion with an adjusted ROE of 8.6%.
At year end The Hartford's book value per diluted share excluding AOCI was down slightly to $39.30 per diluted share principally due to Japan DAC and debt tender charges we incurred in the first quarter of 2013.
Book value per diluted share includes the impact of $633 million of share and warrant repurchases throughout the year.
Our average common share repurchase price in 2013 was $31.20 per diluted share about 21% below book value at the end of 2013.
As Liam mentioned 2013 was an outstanding year with many accomplishments and strong financial performance.
We are now focused on 2014 and beyond.
Slide 23 summarizes our outlook announced yesterday afternoon.
Our 2014 core earnings outlook is $1.65 billion to $1.75 billion.
At the midpoint of this outlook core earnings would be up approximately 4% over 2013 after reflecting the adjustments to 2013 results.
Now CATs core earnings are expected to decline by approximately $165 million which we expect will be offset by core earnings growth from the rest of the businesses.
Our 2014 outlook translates into a core ROE in the range of 8.7% to 9.2%.
During 2013 we achieved significant progress on our expense reduction targets including expenses associated with the businesses sold eliminating about 90% of the $850 million goal with the rest to be taken out this year.
We are now focused on the next phase of our expense initiatives aimed towards reducing controllable insurance and other operating expenses.
Adjusted for the Catalyst 360 sale we ended 2013 with an annual run rate expenses of $3.62 billion.
We plan to reduce this base by approximately $200 million by the end of 2016 which is about a 5% reduction.
To achieve this increased efficiency we are simplifying and improving processes enabled by the approximate $1 billion investment in new systems and capabilities over the next 3 years.
Our 2014 outlook includes a catastrophe load of about 4.7 points on the P&amp;C combined ratio compared to 3.2 points actual in 2013.
Our outlook does not include prior year P&amp;C loss reserve development with the exception of the accretion of discount on workers' compensation reserves.
With respect to investments the pretax portfolio yield is expected to decline from 4.3% to 4.1% in 2014.
This is largely due to lower assumed returns on limited partnerships and alternative investments which are 6% compared to the 10% realized in 2013.
Finally our forecast assumes equity repurchases totaling approximately $1 billion.
The actual impact of these share repurchases on weighted average diluted shares will depend on the purchase price over the course of the year.
For modeling purposes we are estimating a weighted average diluted share count of approximately 468 million shares.
The company's capital resources and financial flexibility have remained strong over the last year even after our significant capital management actions in 2013.
Last night we announced a new $2.656 billion capital management plan for 2014 and '15 which is summarized on Slide 24.
We intend to repurchase $2 billion of equity over this 2-year period and plan to repay $656 million of maturing debt in 2014 and '15.
This plan allows us to continue our balanced capital management programs targeted at equity repurchases and paying down debt.
Funding for this share repurchase and debt repayment program will come from increased dividends from our operating subsidiaries including P&amp;C Group Benefits Mutual Funds and Talcott.
Our current outlook is for total dividends to the holding company of approximately $1.2 billion in 2014.
Included in this outlook is about $150 million from HLIKK Talcott’s Japan subsidiary which is expected to occur in the second half of 2014.
Looking ahead we expect additional dividends from both Talcott's U.S.
and Japan operations in 2015.
We'd now like to update some key data on Talcott end capital similar to the metrics from our April Investor Day.
Slide 25 provides an update of the market consistent value or economic value of our 2 VA blocks.
We use this metric to measure the risk and the economic value of the VA blocks.
It does not represent the market value of the blocks a willing buyer and seller would agree upon.
Details on the methodology for MCV can be found in the appendix.
Let me summarize a few key points about the change in MCV over the period.
First as of December 31 2013 the MCV for the 2 blocks is an asset of $1.7 billion compared to a liability of $500 million at the end of March 2013.
Second the MCV improvement was largely driven by market factors adding $2.9 billion to the MCV offset by approximately $800 million in fees that we collected and recorded as revenue during the year.
Third the MCV calculation does not include hedge results.
During the last 3 quarters of 2013 hedge losses offset approximately 80% of the MCV improvement consistent with our hedging approach and targets.
This slide also shows the comparison of MCV results to statutory reserves.
The reserves and surplus backing these blocks provide substantial resources as these risks run-off.
Of note the Japan VA retained business in HLIKK is lapsing more quickly than expected which lowers risk levels resulting in the HLIKK balance sheet being much stronger today.
This has allowed us to adjust downward our hedging targets for the exposure retained in the Japan legal entity.
Although MCV is the principal methodology we use to value and hedge the VA blocks we understand that many investors like to see cash flows specific to each of our deterministic scenarios.
Slide 26 summarizes the base case scenario.
In this scenario the net present value of cash flows is $3.0 billion.
Beginning on Slide 34 in the appendix we show cash flows for updated favorable and stress scenarios that reflect 2013 experience in market levels.
The net cash flows improved in each scenario from those we presented in April although not to the same extent in each case.
As a reminder a high level of 2013 surrenders reduced future fees in each scenario and have a similar impact on future claims and hedging costs.
The key point for both the MCV and cash flow scenarios is the positive embedded value in the VA blocks which can be harvested over time along with the associated capital and return to the holding company as the blocks run off.
Turning to Slide 27.
As of December 31 our capital resources totaled $17.7 billion an increase of $1.1 billion from the prior period.
Life surplus including HLIKK surplus was about $7.8 billion and the capital margins remained strong with an estimated RBC ratio of 450% in the Hartford Life and Accident group.
We have received formal approval from the Connecticut Department of Insurance to complete the Group Benefits' legal entity separation project including the movement of cash and subsidiaries which will be completed in March of this year.
No holding company resources are needed for this separation.
Slide 28 provides an update on our capital margins using the same scenarios from the cash flow projections.
Capital margins in the base favorable and stress scenarios all remained strong with the base case margin estimated at $7.6 billion at the end of 2015.
These margins assume the full execution of the 2014 and '15 capital management plans in all the scenarios.
Capital margin represents the excess of AA capital for the P&amp;C company and 400% RBC for the Group Benefits company.
The target for U.S.
Talcott entities is 325% RBC.
The holding company liquidity is targeted at approximately 1.5x annual interest in dividends.
As you can see our capital margins remained strong in all these scenarios.
In the stress scenario we have $2 billion of capital margin even after full execution of the capital plan with Talcott remaining capital self-sufficient.
Before turning to your questions let me provide a brief summary of our first quarter outlook which is on Slide 29.
Our core earnings outlook for the first quarter of 2014 is $450 million to $475 million or $0.94 to $0.99 per diluted share.
This outlook assumes catastrophe losses of $57 million after tax and prior-year development only for the accretion of discount on workers' compensation reserves.
I would note that our CAT experience through the end of January was still within our outlook and we feel good about our CAT budget for the first quarter but there are 2 months to go.
Finally core earnings outlook for Talcott is in the range of $160 million to $170 million.
To wrap up let me summarize some of the key comments Liam Doug and Andy made in their remarks.
2013 was an outstanding year for The Hartford with strong financial results and significant progress made in the company's strategy to grow profitably P&amp;C Group Benefits and Mutual Funds.
Talcott made exceptional progress during 2013 with a significant reduction in VA risk exposure.
And finally based on our progress in 2013 and momentum headed into 2014 our capital resources and financial flexibility continue to strengthen enabling us to return a significant amount of capital to shareholders in 2014 and 2015.
Now I'll turn the call over to Sabra to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Sabra? Thank you Chris.
We have about 30 minutes for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Ginger could you please give the Q&amp;A instructions again? [Operator Instructions] Your first question is from Brian Meredith from UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for you.
First with your first quarter outlook I noticed there really was no mention of higher CAT losses and given all the weather and some of the warnings by some other companies.
I wonder if you could comment on that.
and what the potential impact on the Hartford could be.
Brian it's Chris.
As I said in my comments we've looked at January results we still feel good about our CAT assumptions for the full first quarter.
January's CATs were maybe a little elevated from normal but still we feel good about the overall budget for the first quarter.
As it relates to the non-CAT weather Doug might be able to comment a little bit.
But there was really nothing unusual in our book of business whether it be commercial or personal lines that we're seeing in the first month of January.
But Doug any additional color? Well Chris I think you hit it.
As I look at the balance in January we know it's a colder month but I think we're within our general norms and we'll continue to work our way through the rest of the quarters.
So I don't see anything really that is so significant we should comment on.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then second question for Doug.
I'm just curious you talked about preparing for some increased competition here going into 2014.
However if I look at your renewal rate activity you seem to be holding in there better than most of the other competitors.
I wonder if you could kind of comment on that and why you think that is.
I guess a few thoughts for you Brian.
One is I would remind you we have a big Small Commercial book of business and that has performed well.
It's been a steady component of our business that's here for a long time and that rate performance is very solid for an extended period.
Secondly in prior calls we worked hard at our auto line of business and the auto line is still achieving and taking rate and given some of our profit dynamics we think that is exactly the direction we need to head.
And through it all we were pleased with the fourth quarter.
I did point to the fact that my view is at the end of the fourth quarter things got a bit more competitive.
But I look at 2013 across-the-board I looked at overall performance in the fourth quarter I'm very pleased with the progress we made.
Okay your next question is from Vincent DeAugustino from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Switch gears a little bit on Personal Auto.
So just noticed the prior quarter or current accident year frequency adjustments stemming from the higher second quarter '13 estimates.
And I'm just wondering if that's all 3Q '13-related or perhaps if there's sort of late reported claim that are popping up that might be causing the adjustment? Vince this is Andy.
So first I'll say that is a normal part of our process to make current accident year reserve adjustments throughout the course of the year as we see emerging trends in frequency or severity for auto liability.
So occasionally liability frequency can exhibit some volatility from quarter-to-quarter.
And so ultimately for 2013 auto liability frequency ended right about where we expected at the beginning of the year.
Just sort of the way it played out was that the first of the year we saw some favorability and then in the second half we saw some unfavorability and we booked that in the fourth quarter.
So you're seeing a full year impact all getting booked in the fourth quarter.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just switching over to the Mutual Funds business.
So it seems like you have really strong fund performance and we had good market performance for the ICI fund flows were positive.
But you guys' retail fund flows were still a little troublesome.
So I'm just curious of your thoughts on improving that and whether if you feel this is a distribution hurdle or if there's anything else that's holding back the business because all is equal it seems like the performance there is pretty solid.
Vincent it's Chris.
Jim Davey if he were here today he had a prior commitment with his Mutual Fund Board.
He would answer it along the lines of -- He really is positive about 2014.
We do think we could have net positive flows for all of '14.
We would look back in '13.
We had good decent performance from our partner Wellington.
We also did have maybe 2 major accounts 401(k)-type money that rolled off.
We did shut down now since our money market fund and roll those assets to another new provider.
So was it a couple of a one-time items but overall we do think we could begin to grow net fund flows in 2014.
The next question is from our Erik Bass from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just hoping if you could talk a little bit more within your capital plan what you're assuming for dividends from Talcott in 2014 and 2015? I know you mentioned specifically the Japan target but given the ability to request a special dividend from the U.S.
block in 2014? And I guess if not what's preventing you from taking capital out given the significant lapsation you're seeing.
Erik in a high level and I'm sure Chris may want to give you more perspective.
As Chris noted we'll take out from HLIKK this year and next year and we do intend to have an extraordinary dividend out of the U.S.
in 2015.
Obviously that will require regulatory approvals.
I think it's premature for us to comment in more than it is our intent to do so.
And as we work through that process we'll give you more details.
Chris? I would say Erik in addition to Liam's points just the context of Talcott's capital return as I said in my prepared remarks we are taking out I'll call it to the holding company $1.2 billion of cash flow.
And really some of those cash flow resources are from old Talcott operations whether it be Mutual Fund or Group Benefits.
So we plan to take out roughly $70 million of dividends from Mutual Funds next year $100 million from Group Benefits.
So in a way we think Talcott's already contributing.
As we said Japan is coming online with dividend distributions.
We expect I would say $150 million to $200 million over the next 4 or 5 years on average to come out of Japan.
As Liam said we have some things that to still do in the U.S.
And really what I mean is I want to get completed that legal entity separation.
We are beginning work on collapsing White River REIT our Vermont captive into the ILA and then we'll approach the regulators in the second half of the year and have that discussion that multi-year discussion on what we think is an appropriate funding source coming out of the remaining 2 U.S.
life legal entities for Talcott.
So I think we have a plan and I think we've been executing it pretty well and we're very confident that particularly in '15 increased cash flows will come out of Talcott.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful color.
And just -- could you provide an update on the stack capital levels to the different blocks within Talcott similar to what you gave in April? I think what our plan is we'll do that at the first quarter once we complete the legal entity separation and just have I'll call it the new structure lock down and just present it to you there.
So I would say that there is nothing dramatically changed from the April presentation but we'll update you first quarter.
The next question is from Jay Cohen from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A question on the current year reserve adjustment in the auto side.
Can you quantify that just so we can get a good sense of what the underlying numbers look like there? Sure.
It was 2.6 points on the quarter.
And then for the year for auto it was about just over a half point.
Research Division</strong> With ownership on the auto...
On the auto right.
The next question is from John Nadel from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I'm curious on the outlook for the runoff of the Japanese variable annuity block.
It looks like you're expecting the surrender rate will remain somewhere around that 30% level in 2014.
Obviously we've had some very early 2014 market weakness and yen movement.
I'm just wondering if that 30% outlook takes into account the more recent market activity or is there some risk that that surrender rate comes lower.
John I'll have Beth comment in more detail.
But I'll remind you that even at a yen of 101 and the topics where it is now we're really back where we were just a few months ago when the redemption rate what it is right -- the lapse rate I should say is similar to what it is right now.
So with that context Beth do you want to give more details? Yes.
I would agree.
So where we are right now what we saw in January our surrender rates were pretty much in line with what we would have expected.
January is typically a little bit slower just because of a lot of holidays and so forth.
And the other thing 2 other points just to keep in mind is one the funds backing the account value in Japan about 40% of that is allocated to equities and of that half of it is to Japan equities.
So it's not all linked to what we’re seeing in the Japan equity movements.
And then secondly we do have a very significant amount of account value that starts to come up to the annuitization the annuity commencement date in 2014 about $2 billion worth of account value.
And most of that account value at the end of the year was above 110% of the guarantee amount.
So very significant amount out of the money and our experience has been that for contracts that come to the annuity commencement date if they're out of the money we see a very high number of those choosing to take the lump sum.
So if you put all of those factors together we still feel good about our surrender rates assumption for the year.
Research Division</strong> That's excellent color.
And then Chris maybe just a clarification on your Slide #28 that talks about the capital margins.
So at the end of 2015 if the base scenario comes to 4 that $7.6 billion is effectivity your excess capital at The Hartford above those requirements for P&amp;C Group and Talcott? I think John it's our definition of capital margin we've never call it quantified it per se as excess because excess then would take into account which is really deployable.
And as you know I mean particularly for the Life group we're still in the U.S.
Life group in an extraordinary dividend land.
It can't be readily turned into cash.
So that's the only nuance.
But yes I think you should think about capital margins as a buffer above our AA targets our 400% RBC particularly in Group Benefits as a healthy margin.
And we would manage that over time.
Research Division</strong> I assume this really goes to supporting the dialogue that you guys expect to have with some of the insurance regulators around this sort of multi-year dividend planning? Yes I mean obviously we share all our data with all our constituencies whether it be regulators agencies as the like.
I think the only other thought John just on that base number I mean that's the margin at the ATCOS plus the holding company liquidity.
And we do have targets that are roughly 2x annual the interest in dividend so that would be in essence the subtraction from a deployable capital number also.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to -- just one last point on this.
Given how much that capital margin moves especially under the stress scenario I guess it's fair to assume that most of that capital margin is -- resides in Talcott given Talcott would probably be the piece that requires more capital under that stress scenario? Remember we've always said that we're managing Talcott to remain capital self-sufficient and Talcott is in this scenario.
The actual breakdown of that $2 billion is there's $1 billion at the holding company because we're always solving for a minimum liquidity at the holding company and P&amp;C's got $600 million and Life group has $400 million.
So those are the components of the $2 billion capital margin in the stress.
Your next question comes from Mark Finkelstein from Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Maybe start with Chris.
Chris for 2014 what is the economic cost of hedging that you are assuming? And what I mean is that kind of a number that falls below the line if markets operate the way you expect them to.
I would say on the hedging in general we have a context right.
Markets moved dramatically in 2013 and maybe we could talk about the cost of the hedging program in general over the life of the block as it runs off.
But the answer to your specific question I mean Talcott you would assume roughly $225 million of after-tax hedge losses recorded in realized losses.
I translate that into -- from our core ROE to a net income ROE that's about a 1 point cost of that hedge program.
I think on the overall cost we may able to provide some updates and I'll compare and contrast.
So I always start with Japan.
In prior years we talked about 200 basis points of cost.
You see sort of a run rate cost going forward primarily because the market moves so dramatically where they are today with about 70 basis points.
U.S.
that 40 basis points on average now is around 30 basis points.
And then from a macro program I would have you think of our spend going forward of roughly $75 million.
Research Division</strong> And that's all after -- or pretax right? The basis points was after-tax and then the spend $75 million was a pretax number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So after-tax on the 70 and 30.
Okay.
Just on the dividend out of P&amp;C group in Mutual Funds did you back off the $1.50 billion at Talcott it's $1.50 billion.
Is there any reason to think that that number shouldn't kind of trend with earnings? Is there anything that would drive it up above the earnings or perhaps below in terms of that kind of capital release? I think that's a pretty decent trend.
The way we think about it more importantly is what is -- what is distributable earnings sort of the statutory income or GAAP income on our Mutual Fund operation.
What do we need from a holding company side considering the growth in the investments that Doug and Andy in the go-forward businesses need it to make.
But that's how we think about sort of the growth sources of flows and then what we would take up to the holding company and what I described for 2014 is what we're taking up the holding company in '14.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one final quick one if I may.
Doug what is your expectation around lost trend in Standard Commercial for '14 if maybe a directly comparable number to the 8% rate increase that you showed in the fourth quarter? Mark I would say that in our planning for '14 we're expecting loss trend to be about where it was in '13.
So from a loss trend perspective single digits generally across all lines we've had some good news on the frequency side and workers' compensation and auto the auto line has been a little warmer than the overall rest of the book.
But generally '14 in line with '13.
Research Division</strong> And just remind me what like 4% range 3%? Yes.
Yes.
3.5% to 4% is a good point to be at.
Your next question is from Jay Gelb from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to touch base on the Talcott outlook initially.
In the slide it says continued VA surrenders will lead to further core earnings reduction in 2015 for Talcott.
I was trying to get a sense of magnitude on that.
Jay it's Chris.
I mean I think the way to think about it is in relation to AUM.
Contracts will decline but then your market factors in forces can increase that but on your earnings fees kind of called higher asset base per policy basis.
So that's sort of the calculus.
I think in terms of just roughly numbers I would expect in '15 Talcott decline another $125 million to $150 million after-tax.
Research Division</strong> $125 million to $150 million? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Second point is on the overall or let's say core return on equity.
Around 9% in 2014.
Tell us how you plan to get that into double digits.
A lot of hard work.
To me it starts with and I'm looking at Doug and Andy and the business leaders.
I mean we're going to as Liam said the strategy is to profitably grow the go-forward businesses as Talcott shrinks.
And you can see what we think is a prudent capital management plan focused on equity and debt.
That philosophy will continue.
You add in sort of the expense efficiency targets.
And we think 10% is on the horizon.
It will take a lot of work but we still feel comfortable in growing ROE in the 40 basis points plus or minus annually going forward through earnings growth through accretive capital management plans and driving more efficiency into the organization.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And the debt retirement Chris by our estimates you should get to that 23% range debt to capital ex-AOCI by the end of 2015.
Does that mean that debt retirement should pretty much be complete by the end of '15? Jay I'd like to execute our '14 and '15 plans and we'll talk a lot about '16 and beyond.
But I've always said we would like to get into low 20s.
I always defined low 20s as 22%.
And obviously improving our coverage ratios and when we get our targets we could then start to think about a different approach or will it be '15 or '16 I mean know that we're trying to get to our targets.
Your next question is from Tom Gallagher from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Chris I wanted to come back to question on Talcott.
And if I heard you correctly in response to Mark's question your hedging costs are going to be going down.
So can you talk about whether you expect Talcott to generate meaningful capital assuming your base plan for market expectations? And if so how much? And also I know you're focused on core earnings but I know net income has been very weak on that block.
Is that getting better or worse factoring in the cost of hedging? I think 2 points.
On your first one on the surplus I do expect both Life and P&amp;C to generate a couple of $100 million of surplus after dividends next year.
So we think Talcott specifically can begin to generate surplus based from the net income side.
That's why we try to frame it at that $225 million after-tax that's assuming markets grow 4% and rates follow our trend.
And basically FX remains stable.
So I would say if that's the market condition we're printing less hedging losses so that there is less of a difference between core and net income.
And I tried to frame it as that 1 point ROE difference right now based on our hedging cost going forward.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then also I just want to get a better handle on the way you guys are thinking about valuing this business because I was just a little confused thinking about the $2.2 billion increase in market consistent value and then the $3 billion of NPV of cash flow positives.
And then contrasting that with the 80% offset from hedge losses.
So I understand there's capital that we can put a value on capital depending on how quickly it gets returned.
But then there's the valuing the cash flows and the business itself.
How do you think about it taking those 3 other data points that I just mentioned if you can help reconcile those? No.
I mean you're describing a classic actuarial valuation right? Value of the block of business assets and liabilities and the value of the surplus but we think about it is the same way.
I think my comments in my script was trying to lead you to conclude that MCV would not be a transaction value because a willing buyer and seller would have to negotiate but it is sort of a risk-neutral value that helps build the foundation for your thinking in any potential transaction.
Research Division</strong> So Chris sorry just to follow-up on that.
So I would start with 100% of surplus size I assume and add on top of that market consistent value of 2.2 and then adjust that based to your point based on the bid-ask spread from a buyer and seller if you want to think about it along those terms.
But then would I then adjust that downward by 80% considering hedge losses or am I hitting that too hard considering the impact to the hedge losses? I think you're going to think in terms of the hedge losses those printed hedge losses are reading results right? I mean we booked them as realized losses so it's in surplus already.
So I would say you're already have accounted for it in your reconciliations.
And Tom I'd love doing this with you but why don't you and Sabra visit and if you want a little help on any thoughts on the model we could talk to you off line.
The next question is from Chris Giovanni from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess question on the U.S.
VA book.
Obviously lapse has slowed.
I know you touched there.
I think recently you talked about the possibility of exploring another ESV program.
So can you talk maybe where we stand with that? And maybe why or is that still a focus given where NAR stands today? Well Beth will give you her views on that Chris.
I think the ESV performance played out as we said it would.
And so now Beth can give her perspectives on what if anything else things that she's thinking about.
Yes thanks Liam.
So currently in the plan we have right now we have built in an expectation of doing an offer related to our fixed annuity book.
And our plan includes about $30 million of cost associated with that so it's sort of the next evolution of offerings that we're looking at.
Beyond that the team continues to look if there are other again as we talked about in the past sort of nearly focused parts of the business that we would look to.
So you should expect that we'll continue to look for that.
And as our plans in that area firm up we will share them with you.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you obviously give us a look in terms of buybacks through January.
But wondering how we should think about kind of the cadence of buybacks here over the next couple of years.
Will you be optimistic around price or would it be fairly balanced on a quarterly basis? Chris I think the way we think about it is $1 billion $1 billion first order and then we do want to be stable and consistent and prudent but we'll look at buying opportunities.
And in fact I can just give you an update through yesterday we had purchased $151 million of shares back in through January and then first business day of February.
So we're been opportunistic when we see it but we also want to be stable and steady too.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last quick one.
Liam you talked about in terms of one of the approaches for long term value top quartile growth in book value and how should we think about that just in terms of if you were to be executing on transactions within Talcott that could potentially reduce GAAP book value? I mean is that a focus or is that just studying economics in terms of thinking about what that would do versus your translation of GAAP book value? I want to clarify my statement was that we want to be a top quartile company as measured by total shareholder return over trend.
We think that will be driven we have conviction that that will be driven by growing book value.
And as Chris discussed earlier increasing our ROE.
Obviously if we were to seriously consider a transaction we would do what was economic.
And as I've always said we take a look at the purchase price the amount of capital that could be released versus what our view is of the underlying economics.
And that will really inform our decision as opposed to if you will solving to a book value answer per se.
I will certainly be part of the equation we're well aware of that.
But I think the longer-term view that I'm trying to impart is we are focused on being a top quartile CSR company.
We know that will be driven by prudent growth to book value as well as an increase in ROE and I think I've given you a consistent frame of reference for how we might view a potential transaction.
And Ginger I think we have time for one more question.
I think Chris had a quick follow-up to Tom Gallagher's question on hedge cost first.
Research Division</strong> Tom it's Chris.
Actually I think it was Mark that I probably misspoke just a little bit.
The 70 and 30 basis points we're hedging for Japan and the U.S.
are pretax numbers consistent with the $75 million spend which is also a pretax number.
So sorry if I confused.
Ginger can we have just the next question or the last question please? Yes ma'am.
Your final question comes from Bob Glasspiegel from Janney.
Research Division</strong> Question on whether I'm thinking about Talcott correctly.
It seems like 2013 was a nirvana environment with the U.S.
stock market up Japan up weakening yen higher interest rates good for sort of operating results good for our balance sheet bad for hedging.
We certain reverse those dynamics in the first quarter yet you have Talcott's sort of earning more than a quarter of the full year earnings.
So I just want to make sure that the guidance sort of fully reflects the 255 10-year and the other impacts of the yen and the Nikkei et cetera.
Thanks Bob.
For the question again Beth and Chris may have their own context.
I remind you that yen/dollar on TOPIX/Nikkei are really back where they were just a few months ago.
So well above what we started last year wasn't even at the end of the first quarter.
So let's be sure we have that context.
So I'd turn over to Chris and Beth for any additional comments you might want to make to Bob's question.
No.
Again I think that we've taken all those into consideration and the guidance that we've provided and reflecting the surrender activity that we saw during 2013 kind of our starting point for 2014 and the expectation that we have goes for surrender activity as well as the impact of the annuitizations that begin in Japan.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's just when I saw the year end 10-year at 220 -- 320 which has a pretty big grade up from where we are today.
I didn't know if that reflected a feeling that this is just a blip in the 10-year something that you're managing.
Bob it's Chris.
I think the way we thought about our overall plan is that those were our point estimates.
I think the ranges that we have around a lot of -- our data provides enough sensitivity for different market conditions.
Interest rates U.S.
interest rates and sort of the returns on the assets that back those Japan liabilities aren't directly correlated.
So as we said at the point estimate I think at $570 million of core earnings for Talcott where we sit here today we still think that's our best estimate knowing some of the market noise that even happened during the last few weeks.
Thank you and thank you all for joining us for the call today.
We appreciate your taking the extra time that we took today for the call.
And if you have any follow-up questions Sean and I are available after the call.
Thank you and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
At this time you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Lisa and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Hartford First Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Ms.
Sabra Purtill Head of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you Lisa.
Good morning everyone and welcome to The Hartford first quarter 2014 conference call.
Our speakers today include Liam McGee Chairman President and CEO; Douglas Elliot President of Commercial Markets; Andy Napoli President of Consumer Markets; and Chris Swift CFO.
Other members of our executive management team are also present and available for Q&amp;A including Beth Bombara President of Talcott Resolution.
As described on Page 2 of the slides today's presentation includes forward-looking statements as defined under Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results could be materially different.
We do not assume any obligation to update forward-looking statements and investors should consider the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from these statements.
A detailed description of those risks and uncertainties can be found in our SEC filings which are available on our website.
Our presentation today includes several non-GAAP financial measures.
Explanations and reconciliations of these measures to the comparable GAAP measure are included in our SEC filings as well as in the earnings release and financial supplement.
Finally please note that our 10-Q will be filed by the end of this week.
I'll now turn the call over to Liam.
Thank you Sabra.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining our call.
Just over 2 years ago we launched The Hartford strategy to enhance shareholder value.
Profitably [ph] grow the P&amp;C Group Benefits and Mutual Funds businesses reduced the size and risk of Talcott Resolution and increased the company's operating effectiveness and efficiency.
Our focus on executing that strategy has been unrelenting and I am very proud of this -- of the substantial progress we've made in transforming The Hartford.
Building a successful 2013 The Hartford outstanding first quarter results further demonstrate that our businesses are profitably growing through margin expansion and top line growth.
In addition the Japan sale announced yesterday is an important milestone in the company's transformation.
This is an excellent transaction for shareholders generating an estimated $1.4 billion capital benefit and sharply reducing The Hartford's risk profile by permanently eliminating the Japan variable annuity risk.
Our policyholders in Japan will also benefit from a financially strong strategic Japanese buyer.
In evaluating the transaction we examined a capital benefit compared to the economics of running the block off.
We consider the permanent risk transfer and the likelihood of regulatory approval.
After a comprehensive process we concluded that the sale to Orix was clearly the right decision for the company.
The transaction will accelerate the return of capital from Japan so we can be redeploy it for accretive activities were quickly.
We will provide details about our plans for the capital benefit after the deal closes which we expect to occur in July.
The transaction also accelerates the transformation of The Hartford putting greater emphasis on our successful efforts to profitably grow the P&amp;C Group Benefits and Mutual Funds businesses.
This is an important transaction for The Hartford.
With the return of capital from Japan and the permanent elimination of the VA risk there The Hartford is much closer to achieving the strategic objectives we set out in 2012.
The Hartford had an outstanding first quarter.
Core earnings increased 23% to $564 million or $1.18 per diluted share.
Core earnings in the P&amp;C Group Benefits and Mutual Funds businesses also increased 23% year-over-year.
Disciplined underwriting and pricing continued to drive margin expansion in P&amp;C and Group Benefits.
Excluding a onetime expense benefit CATs and prior year development the total P&amp;C combined ratio improved to 89.9 in the first quarter a 1.9 point improvement over the prior year quarter.
In Group Benefits we continued to grow margins recording a 50% jump in core earnings and an increase in the core earnings margin to 5.1%.
As Doug will discuss later renewal written price increases were strong in P&amp;C Standard Commercial at 7%.
Pricing increases remain well ahead of loss cost trends which will drive future margin expansion.
In addition to increasing profitability we're beginning to generate improving top line growth across the P&amp;C lines.
New business premiums were up year-over-year in Middle Market and Consumer Markets and retentions are higher across the board even as pricing remains strong.
In Group Benefits sales increased 7% over the first quarter of 2013 for the fourth consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth.
In Mutual Funds growth in assets under management drove core earnings up 5%.
We were pleased to see positive net flows in Mutual Funds in the first quarter a sign of growing momentum in the business.
As Chris will elaborate we continue to manage the balance sheet prudently.
The aim of continued financial strength and flexibility while returning capital to shareholders and paying down debt.
During the quarter we repurchased $300 million of common stock and repaid $200 million of maturing debt.
Across the company we are driving improvements in operating effectiveness and efficiency which you can begin to see in declining enterprise insurance and other operating expense levels.
We are instilling a continuous improvement mindset to ensure that we operate more effectively and efficiently going forward.
The first 4 months of 2014 represent an important turning point for the Hartford.
With the sale of Japan The Hartford is transforming into an insurance underwriting company with a smaller less volatile U.S.
run off block in Talcott Resolution.
The P&amp;C Group Benefits and Mutual Funds team are delivering profitable growth.
Outstanding first quarter results further demonstrate that the fundamental changes we made to how the company operates are working.
We are creating a culture of execution of The Hartford and are well-equipped to compete effectively in our markets.
We are focused on the work ahead as we continue to execute in The Hartford strategy.
Thanks again for your interest in The Hartford we look forward to sharing our continued progress with you.
And I'll now turn the call over to Doug.
Doug? Thank you Liam and good morning everyone.
Commercial Markets is off to a strong start in 2014 and clearly building on the growing momentum established over the past several years.
With an improving earnings profile particularly in Middle Market P&amp;C and Group Benefits our attitude towards growth has turned more positive across all our businesses.
Let's begin on Slide 5.
For the first quarter of 2014 P&amp;C Commercial delivered $264 million of core earnings and a combined ratio of 91.2.
Compared to the first quarter of 2013 this is an increase of $40 million in core earnings and a decrease of 2.8 points in the combined ratio.
Current accident year CATs for the first quarter of 2014 were approximately $60 million.
Significantly above the very light CAT quarter 1 year ago.
Partially offsetting the increase in CAT losses was a onetime expense benefit resulting from changes in New York Workers' Compensation Board assessments.
The underlying combined ratio excluding CATs and prior development was 87.7 for the first quarter of 2014 a decrease of 5.4 points versus the prior year.
Excluding the favorable effects of the New York Assessments changes the underlying combined ratio improved 2.2 points reflecting our strong execution across all market segments.
CAT losses for our Property &amp; Casualty businesses this quarter were more heavily skewed to Standard Commercial lines.
This is largely a function of our extensive Small Commercial business and low temperatures across the Midwest and Northeast that resulted in a much higher frequency of burst water pipes that we normally see from winter storms.
Turning to the top line on Slide 6.
Our total written premium was up 1%.
However underneath this overall modest change a very important story is unfolding for our P&amp;C Commercial businesses.
Adjusting for the $43 million written premium decline in our Programs business which is a result of re-underwriting actions P&amp;C Commercial grew over 4% the strongest quarterly growth we've seen in several years.
Furthermore we continued our relentless execution on written pricing gains achieving a 7% increase in the quarter.
Although down from 8% in quarter 4 we are nonetheless pleased with the general strength of pricing achieved.
Importantly pricing continues to outpace lost cost trends.
New business momentum also continued and in particular I would note our Middle Market new business premium was up 14% in the quarter.
With this as a backdrop let me share a few additional thoughts on each of our 4 business segments starting with Small Commercial beginning on Slide 7.
Performance in Small Commercial continues to be excellent with an all-in combined ratio of 85.7.
Top line momentum is building with policy retention improving to 83% and new business of $131 million for the quarter.
Quotes for our business owners' package policy spectrum were up 12% in the quarter.
Recall that we are introducing our commercial auto product on our new quote-to-issue platform in the coming months completing our small product suite.
This cutting-edge technology with our market-leading products and outstanding distribution partnerships has us poised for further PIF growth as we look out over the next several quarters.
Moving to Middle Market on Slide 8.
I continue to be pleased with our progress.
Margin improvement has been our consistent focus over the last several years and our first quarter underlying combined ratio of 90.1 paints a completely different picture than what we saw a few years back.
After adjusting for the benefit from changes in New York Assessments we're down 3.2 points from prior year.
Renewal written pricing at 6% remain well ahead of loss cost trends and our account performance analytics continued to guide our pricing discipline.
As I mentioned in our fourth quarter call the environment has become more competitive over the last 6 months but I would continue to describe the overall market as rational.
Middle Market written premium was up 4% in the quarter reflecting our improved go-to-market capabilities.
Retention remains solid and new business of $111 million was up from $97 million in the first quarter of 2013.
Our new business product balance is now consistently performing within our target range.
With property casualty and auto representing 2/3 of our new written premium.
Most importantly based on our aggressive pricing and underwriting actions over the past 30 months the rate adequacy of our Middle Market growth has improved significantly including worker's compensation.
Turning to Specialty Commercial on Slide 9.
National Accounts continue this top line momentum up 24%.
Specific circumstances related to several individual accounts help drive this result.
However even adjusting for these the underlying run rate is in the low-double digits.
Our credit and underwriting standards remain rigorous.
We estimate that available new business in the market was down slightly but I was pleased with the new accounts we wrote in the quarter.
As in prior quarters with exceptional retention above 90% our new accounts exceeded those either lost or non-renewed a great organic result.
Financial Products also had a solid quarter with 4% growth.
Pricing remains positive in most sectors with the outlier large commercial excess players where we see pricing declines.
I remain positive on our progress here and I'm pleased with another good 90 days.
Re-underwriting efforts in our Program business remain a priority.
We're making difficult yet appropriate financial trade-off decisions here and I'm not concerned with the top line decline.
Our financial outlook for the go-forward programs supported by revised underwriting and claims controls has significantly improved over the past 2 years.
Now let's move to Group Benefits on Slide 10 where excellent momentum from 2013 continues.
Core earnings in the quarter of $45 million were up 50% from last year.
Favorable long-term disability incident trends continued strong recoveries and improved pricing were all drivers in the quarter.
In the February year-end call I noted our strong persistency on January 2014 renewals.
In fact for the quarter persistency in accounts renewing in our Employer Group Life and Disability business came in at 80% up approximately 18 points from 2013.
This strong performance produced a book consistency -- persistency of over 90% which is 10 points improved from 2013.
Looking at the top line.
Fully insured ongoing premium declined 4% compared to prior year.
The decrease is primarily attributed to a decision we made last year to exit an agreement with a third-party targeting sales through financial institutions.
The impact on core earnings is immaterial but we will continue to see premium decline throughout December 2014 when our exit is complete.
Excluding the premium from this arrangement our top line is down about 1% to prior year.
Turning to New Business.
Fully insured ongoing sales of $180 million were 7% ahead of first quarter 2013.
This is now the fourth consecutive quarter of increasing year-over-year sales.
These financial results reflect our improved financial profile and market competitiveness.
And critical to our strategy this improved financial performance has also been recognized by A.M.
Best Standard &amp; Poor's and Fitch all of which have recently reviewed the Group Benefits writing company and upgraded our ratings.
We've been working aggressively to transition all Group Benefits business to Hartford Life and Accident and these upgrades are important step as we work to grow this business.
In closing this was a very good quarter for us with strong top line and bottom line performance.
I'd highlight that we continued to invest inside each of our business for 2014 and beyond.
Technology is at the core of this agenda but underwriting product development and data analytics are equally critical.
Our markets are continuing to evolve and these operating initiatives will strengthen our value proposition with customers and distributors.
Coupled with the improving financial performance we delivered over recent quarters we are optimistic about our strategic position as we move forward.
Now let me turn the call over to Andy Napoli.
Thanks Doug and good morning.
Consumer Markets delivered strong first quarter results that continued the positive momentum created in 2013.
During the quarter consumer generated written premium growth of 6% year-over-year.
Sequential policy growth in both auto and home while simultaneously improving underlying margins.
Let's start with margins.
Overall despite the winter activity that drove elevated non-CAT frequency across all lines we produced 1.2 points of underlying margin improvement.
In homeowners winter storms and the unseasonably cold weather that hit the Eastern half of the country unfavorably impacted our non-CAT home loss ratio by 4 points.
During the quarter we experienced large increases in non-CAT weather claim frequency particularly from frozen pipes.
In auto the weather also contributed to increased physical damage frequency.
On the other hand auto liability frequency and severity trends remained modestly positive.
Finally our expense ratio improved over a point compared to last year due to direct marketing efficiencies coupled with the benefit of increased scale.
Now let's move to the top line.
Written premium growth for the quarter was driven equally by new business production and improving retention.
Auto new business grew 20% with production coming from all channels.
Agent ease of doing business is critically important to us and we spent a large part of 2013 working on new business throughput in this channel.
Our team thoughtfully reviewed agency back and implemented numerous workflow improvements resulting in a 7% increase in quotes and a 32% increase in issues over last year.
These improvements helped drive auto new business production in AARP Agency and other agency which grew 46% and 31% respectively.
Now let's shift to AARP direct top line where new business grew 10%.
This growth was largely enabled by a 29% increase in response as we continue to optimize our direct marketing by driving leads for more cost effective online sources.
During the quarter 78% of our responses came from online shoppers up 7 points from a year ago.
Our AARP direct marketing has improved significantly over the past couple of years while leveraging better analytics and quicker test and learn capabilities to more efficiently target shoppers who will respond to our Hartford AARP offerings.
Strong premium retention is also driving growth.
Targeted renewal pricing and increased policy retention contributed to a 1 point increase in auto premium retention including a 2 point improvement in agency auto.
Home premium retention is also up 1 point.
Overall we are very pleased with our growth and we we're mindful of balancing that growth with a strong underwriting focus managing both on a very dynamic basis from state to state to optimize our total return.
Focusing on Auto.
We're very happy with AARP growth in states like Florida Illinois and Arizona and agency growth in Texas Connecticut and Pennsylvania.
We also have some states who are actively managing like California where we're taking both rate and non-rate actions to combat loss cost pressure and to decelerate growth a bit.
In New York where the rate we've taken combined with non-rate actions for example restricting new business flow through filters and comparative raters our actions are working and new business growth has slowed.
Consistent with our results this quarter where the auto current accident year loss ratio was essentially flat with prior year we're confident the actions we've taken and will take during the remainder of 2014 will continue to keep earned pricing ahead of lost costs.
In closing we're proud of our first quarter results continuing the momentum from 2013 improving margins expanding top line growth and growing policies in-force.
As we look ahead to the remainder of 2014 we'll actively monitor growth we'll take rate to stay ahead of loss trends and implement other non-rate actions where appropriate.
We are confident in our ability to achieve our 2014 objectives and that our core strategy remains strong and on track.
I'll now turn the call over to Chris.
Thank you Andy.
This morning I'll cover several topics.
First I'll review first quarter 2014 results; second I will cover the HLIKK transaction and its financial impacts; third I'll provide updates on our legal entity realignment work; and finally I'll cover our second quarter 2014 outlook.
Let's begin on Slide 14.
Last evening we reported first quarter 2014 core earnings of $564 million or $1.18 per share up 23% from the first quarter of 2013.
First quarter results included about $58 million after-tax or $0.12 per diluted share of favorable items.
These items included $26 million in after-tax favorable prior year development mostly from prior year catastrophes and $32 million after-tax for a reduction in assessments for the New York State Worker's Compensation Board.
Current year catastrophes were in line with our outlook of $57 million after-tax.
The addition to these items limited partnerships returns were 13% annualized or about $0.07 per diluted share higher than our 6% yield we are using for outlooking purposes.
Turning to Slide 15.
Consolidated net income for the quarter was $495 million or $1.03 per diluted share compared with a net loss of $241 million or $0.58 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2013.
Hedging losses and credit impairments were modest reflecting relatively stable capital markets and a favorable credit environment this quarter.
Combined our P&amp;C group Benefits and Mutual Funds businesses generated core earnings of $452 million up 23% from the first quarter of 2013.
Doug and Andy covered their businesses so I'll cover the rest.
Mutual Funds core earnings rose 5% over prior year due to higher fees resulting from increased assets under management.
Fund performance remains solid and we were ranked as a Top 10 Mutual Fund Family in the Barron’s/Lipper survey for the second year in a row.
With strong sales and improving redemptions net flows were positive for the first time since 2011.
Looking ahead to the second quarter we anticipate a slight increase in redemptions due to the liquidation of our series of target date funds.
These funds have approximately $700 million in assets under management which reflects our decision to focus resources in areas where we can grow market share.
Talcott's core earnings were $175 million basically in line with our outlook after adjusting for limited partnership returns.
U.S.
VA surrender activity remained relatively consistent with policy accounts declining 3% sequentially and an annualized surrender rate of 12.3% in the first quarter.
This is slightly lower than the last few quarters primarily because of the ESV program.
We continue to explore policyholder initiatives for our annuity blocks.
In mid-March we launched a program that will ultimately be offered to about 84 000 contract holders with $5.5 billion of U.S.
fixed annuity account values.
The corporate segment had core losses of $63 million compared with core losses of $73 million in the first quarter of 2013.
The difference was principally due to a reduction in interest expense of about $12 million before tax due to debt repayments in 2013.
During the quarter we repaid $200 million in maturing debt consistent with the capital management plan we announced in February of this year.
Turning to Slide 16.
At March 31 2014 The Hartford's book value per diluted share excluding AOCI was $40.17 up 2% from year end 2013 and up 3% from March 31 2013.
The growth in book value per share reflects first quarter net income and the accretive impact of share repurchase during the quarter which was modestly offset by dividends paid to shareholders.
During the quarter we repurchased $8.8 million common shares for $300 million at an average price of $34.03 per share or about 85% of book value excluding AOCI.
Our core earnings ROE for the 12 months ended March 31 2014 was 9.6% which is above our expected run rate for full year 2014 of 8.7% to 9.2%.
This increase was due to favorable limited partnership income and catastrophe losses over the past year.
Yesterday we announced the agreement to sell HLIKK our Japanese annuity subsidiary for $895 million or $860 million net of expenses and taxes.
This is a good transaction at a good price that will eliminate our exposure to the Japan VA business.
The transaction which is subject to regulatory approvals is expected to close in July and has a pro forma estimated capital benefit of $1.4 billion.
The benefit is comprised of net proceeds from the sale of HLIKK and an estimated net statutory capital benefit of $540 million in the U.S.
resulting from the recapture of the Japan annuity risk to HLIKK.
On a March 31 2014 pro forma basis the transaction would result in an after-tax GAAP net loss of approximately $675 million and a U.S.
Life Insurance company net statutory surplus loss of approximately $275 million.
The deal is subject to a purchase price adjustment.
The company's hedging program is designed to largely offset the effect of the purchase price adjustment and the expected capital benefit and we intend to continue the hedging program until closing.
As a result of this transaction effective in the second quarter the Japan business will be classified as discontinued operations and will not be included in core earnings.
Core earnings for Japan were $64 million this quarter and were outlooked at $215 million for the full year.
Going forward Japan results will also include the results of hedging and changes in the purchase price adjustment and will be included in net income through discontinued operations until closing which is expected in July of 2014.
The estimated GAAP loss on the sale will be booked in the second quarter.
After closing The Hartford will have greater financial flexibility and a significantly reduced risk profile.
We are evaluating how we will deploy the capital benefit from this transaction including incremental capital management opportunities and will update you on our plans after the transaction closes.
Consistent with prior programs we will evaluate both equity and debt options under any program.
As Liam discussed this sale is a major milestone for The Hartford accelerating our transformation to a more focused insurance underwriting company and significantly reducing the company's risk profile.
In addition it will reduce future net income volatility as GAAP accounting did not fair value most of the Japan liabilities.
Turning in to Slide 18.
We have also made progress on our corporate structure realignment.
During the quarter we completed the Group Benefits legal entity separation project.
Today Hartford Life and Accident or HLA largely represents just the Group Benefits business.
As part of this separation this quarter HLA subsidiaries upstreamed an $800 million dividend to HLA in March.
This capitalized the Group Benefits company in an RBC [ph] of approximately 400% as of March 31 2014.
After the realignment HLA's former subsidiaries Hartford Life Insurance Company and Hartford Life and Annuity became subsidiaries of the Life Holding company.
As Doug mentioned after we completed the realignment 3 rating agencies upgraded HLA our market-facing Group Benefits company.
Our second project involves White River Re.
In the second quarter of 2014 we plan to dissolve White River our Vermont annuity captive and Hartford Life and Annuity recaptured the risk previously ceded to White River.
This transaction has no impact on net holding company resources or consolidated U.S.
life statutory surplus.
In addition this transaction simplifies our regulatory and reporting structure and improved our ability to manage Talcott's resources.
Including the impact of HLA and White River realignments pro forma March 31 2014 RBC for Hartford Life Insurance Company and subsidiaries would be approximately 430%.
Before turning to your questions let me provide a brief summary of our second quarter outlook which is on Slide 19.
Bottom line adjusting for certain items we forecast the core earnings increase of 8% in the second quarter of 2014 as compared to the second quarter of 2013.
In total our core earnings outlook for the second quarter of 2014 is $295 million to $320 million or $0.63 to $0.68 per diluted share assuming 469 million shares outstanding.
This outlook does not include Japan annuity core earnings of approximately $55 million dollars or $0.12 per diluted share which will be reported in discontinued operations.
Talcott's earnings excluding Japan are outlooked at $80 million to $85 million for the quarter and include about $15 million after-tax for expenses associated with policyholder initiatives on the U.S.
annuity book.
This outlook assumes catastrophe losses of $120 million after-tax which is about equal to our actual experience in the second quarter of 2013.
The second quarter is generally our highest CAT quarter and May and June are 2 of our most active CAT months particularly for tornadoes and thunderstorms that are still to come.
We extend our sympathies to all those affected by Sunday's tornadoes and yesterday's storms in the Midwest and Midsouth.
As usual the outlook does not include any estimates for prior year development except for the accretion of discount on workers comp.
We complete our annual ground-up asbestos environmental reserve studies in the second quarter.
To wrap up let me just reiterate that we are off to an outstanding start in 2014 with strong financial results from our P&amp;C Group Benefits and Mutual Fund businesses and a transaction milestone with the Japan announcement.
Our capital position is very strong with a $600 million improvement in statutory surplus this quarter reflecting positive statutory earnings in both Life and P&amp;C.
I'll now turn the call over to Sabra to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Chris.
We have about 30 minutes for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Lisa could you please give the instructions for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from Mark Finkelstein from Evercore.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question is on the transaction and kind of the earnings outlook that you talked about.
I guess how much in stranded costs get -- or shared services cost get reallocated? And is it too early to start talking about an expense plan in terms of kind of dealing with those? I'll let Chris and/or Beth take the details of that question.
But Mark I think as we demonstrated with our sales of the Life and Retirement Plans businesses as well as our broker-dealer we are always determined to eliminate costs that are associated with businesses we sold.
And I think our success to date in those businesses are supportive of that concept.
With that I'll have Chris and Beth give you the details that you asked for.
Thank you Liam.
I think your point is right on.
I think Mark if you put into context that HLIKK was really a standalone business unit in Japan reallocated a small amount of holding company expenses to Japan.
When I mean small you think in terms of $20 million $25 million after-tax -- or excuse me pretax.
And we'll put that part of our efficiency objectives and we'll get out as quickly as we can but it's relatively small.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Chris just what happens to the hedging cost? I mean I know that 70 basis points likely goes away but is there an opportunity to take down the macro hedge as well? And if so how much of that save the strain in the -- below the line? Mark from the hedging side I will just reiterate we are going to continue to hedge from now until closing.
That's important as we try to lock in our capital benefit.
I think as you forward in U.S.
block we still spend at 30 to 40 basis points of hedging cost.
The macro program cost is approximately $75 million.
So I do think we'll have the opportunity with Bob Rupp's leadership to recalibrate our U.S.
hedging programs.
And that's on the list and we'll update you as we modify it going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally Andy is the expense ratio improvement in Consumer sustainable? Mark this is Andy.
Yes we believe that we should sustain 1.4 point improvement throughout the year.
And our next question comes from John Nadel from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I have a question.
I know you don't want to address sort of the deployment of the capital until the deal actually closes.
But I guess my question is this should we think -- how should we think about those proceeds in the capital freed up from the sale? And by that I mean is it fair for us to look upon those proceeds as completely unencumbered and available to the holding company either directly as it relates to the sale price or over time as it relates to getting the dividends out of the life co? John it's Chris.
How about if I frame it that the $1.4 billion capital benefit is obviously the gross impact of that combination.
I think when you think about it what we announced our capital management plan for 2014 and '15 you would say as our thinking this transaction overlaid with that plan.
We would say that there's an incremental $1 billion of capital that will be available to supplement that plan.
And as you know we're going to work on it with -- we're going to work on closing the transaction first and then simultaneously that will work on our plans.
And again consistent with our past actions I think we demonstrated the ability to be balanced to achieve our deleveraging goals while returning excess capital to shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's fair.
I just wanted sort of an affirmation if you will that the net proceeds here over what you had already assumed in your $2 billion outlook was indeed unencumbered.
And I guess it's fair for us to assume that right given the 400% RBC at the group company and the 430% at Talcott on a pro forma basis.
Correct? Yes.
I mean the way we think about it is the capital that's in the U.S.
entity we'll work with our regulators to do an extraordinary dividend to get it out.
The cash that's going to come from the sale of the legal entity in Japan will go directly to the holding company.
But all that totals in incremental billion dollars compared to our announced plan.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I can just sneak one more in.
I kind of hate asking about the Corporate segment on the conference call but as you look at that $63 million operating and core operating loss in Corporate this quarter can you give us some help on where we should expect that to trend given the debt reductions as well as your expectation for incremental expenses from here? Yes.
John I'm looking at the supplements.
So I always think in terms of -- at the Corporate segment there's about $60 million to $70 million of pretax operating expenses up there in addition to the interest expense -- yes for the year -- I'm sorry that's for the year.
So that will continue to be there with the -- just the catchfall from some unallocated expenses to the line.
So think about it as $50 million to $60 million for an annualized basis pretax within there going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So most of the expenses that we should see from here then are truly in the operating units? Clearly.
I mean that's where all the action is.
And our next question comes from Vincent DeAugustino from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'll just start off with Doug real quick.
I'm just curious if you're seeing any shifts in quote submissions that might indicate that your clients and agents are becoming more complacent with call it mid-single-digit rate increases since we're also seeing a concurrent modest rise in retentions as well? Vince I would describe the operating environment the last 60 days as relatively consistent.
So I don't see any major changes out there.
Excited about the progress we made in the quarter sales achieved across our businesses as I noted really positive signs for the franchise.
But I still see a very rational environment that is allowing us to compete effectively.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Good.
And Andy you've already provided some information on the non-CAT non-weather.
But I guess the question would go to both Doug and you.
But clearly the winter weather was a drag on the CAT line and I'm just curious of any thoughts on weather outside of the catastrophe line.
There might be some benefit across the writing [ph] lines like auto and workers comp or some of these frigid temperatures may have weighted on whether it be discretionary driving or construction activity.
I'm just looking at some other things in the economy and we see it in retail sales home starts tons of things that are impacted here.
And I'm just wondering if there's some also non-CAT non-weather accident frequency benefits here in the quarter that's benefiting the quarter [ph] line loss ratio that we should maybe thinking about normalizing out or just breaking that down would be helpful.
Okay.
Vince this is Andy.
I'll address for Consumer and then hand it off to Doug.
So let me talk about homeowners first.
So we did see an abnormally large increase or spike in freezing pipe claims so we got to deal with that.
And so when will that repeat itself towards the end of this next year into next year.
The long-term 3- or 4-year trend for non-CAT weather has been slightly negative.
And so I view that as the year plays out that that trend should continue despite what happened in the quarter with the frozen pipe claims.
What's more interesting at least to me is what's happening in auto.
So we observed a sharp increase in collision frequency that we attribute largely to ice and snow throughout the Northeast and Midwest.
And what's interesting about it is we did not see a corresponding increase in auto liability frequency.
But that said that's something that we're paying really close attention to as we come out of the cold weather period to see if the collision frequency drops off and auto liability frequency remains modest.
That help? Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> It does.
Vince let me add a few points to that.
One is we had some pressure on our non-CAT weather inside Commercial Markets in the first quarter.
Not big big numbers but clearly states that we're borderline ISO-defined CAT-ers et cetera so a couple of points of pressure there inside our property lines.
Secondly we feel we also had some frequency in the auto line just because of weather.
So we had commercial drivers out on the roads for extra hours et cetera.
And we know as we look at geographies it had some pressure in the quarter.
And the last piece I'd throw to you maybe a contrarian thought to you.
In comp we think we saw a little bit in the frequency area just based on weather.
So whether it be employees on the job sites with more challenging temperatures ice et cetera.
So we actually looked at our first quarter frequency numbers and comp and think we saw a little bit of lift in areas that had those adverse temperatures.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So to your point on being contrarian we should maybe actually think about this at least being sustainable if not potentially getting some improvement throughout the rest of the year based on all the rate and non-rate actions as well.
That's fair.
And our next question comes from Jay Cohen from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
You had mentioned in the U.S.
VA book an offer that you're putting out to contract holders of -- if you can give more detail on that.
And then on the Property &amp; Casualty side I guess really on the Commercial side this was the first quarter that I can recall where there was no adverse reserve development in any major line of business.
And I'm wondering if you're seeing in some of these liability lines better claims trend or is it simply that "Hey we've gotten the reserves where they need to be " at this point? Okay Jay.
We'll have Beth take your first question on U.S.
annuity offers -- customer offers.
Great thank you.
Yes so in markets as Chris outlined in his remarks we did start an offer related to our fixed annuity block.
This offer is going to cover about $5.5 billion of account value.
These fixed annuities think of them as offering minimum interest rate guarantees of around 3%.
And so with this offer we're offering policyholders an enhancement and increase to their surrender value as they would surrender their contract.
Research Division</strong> And Beth what's the expectation as far as what that should produce as far as surrender value -- surrender rate? Yes.
It's early to tell right now.
As I said we just started the first launch in March.
And for the first wave currently we're experiencing about an 8% take rate.
So we modeled that we thought in total we'd get somewhere in the 10% to 15% surrender rate.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And the development? Jay it's Chris.
Yes on the adverse development I'll add my comments and Doug might have a view.
I think you're kind to notice that we've worked hard to getting the balance sheet right and we believe it is right.
I would also tell you that I think we have better collaboration amongst the financial reserving actuaries and the business actuaries Doug and myself so that our current year picks at least over the last 2 years I think we are more confident about those picks.
There's more real time data that goes into our planning process and quarterly process.
So Doug I think we feel that the process that we go through is just tighter more realtime and better data and to give comfort out on those picks.
Jay I would totally agree with Chris' comments.
We just feel very good about the process and we jumped on issues early.
Just we're solid about where we are.
And our next question comes from Erik Bass from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I guess now that the legal entity restructuring is complete can you just provide an update on the statutory capital levels for the different blocks remaining within Talcott? Erik what I would say if you look at our printed results in the supplement for U.S.
Life statutory surplus of $7 billion $1.4 billion of that is HLA.
So the remainder $5 billion $6 billion then would be the 2 Life legal entities that support Talcott.
That $5 billion $6 billion then is before the approximate $275 million loss.
So you could think of it on a pro forma basis for that loss we have $5.3 billion of surplus supporting Talcott runoff and that we have approximately $600 million of that -- on that surplus that capital is allocated to VA Japan risk that over time will -- again an extraordinary dividend and extract and return to the holding company.
So I think in total we ought to think about what we have for Talcott runoff is about $4.7 billion of surplus on a pro forma basis and our Group Benefits company has $1.4 billion of surplus.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And can you talk a little bit about the different options you have for additional deleveraging going forward? I believe you've already committed to retiring the maturities in 2014 and 2015 so would you be looking to potentially tender for additional debt or do you have any securities that become callable? Yes.
I would say Erik that our thinking is very early and preliminary so I wouldn't want to comment beyond that that we do need to continue to delever.
Our goals are geared towards the go-forward businesses and sort of where we need to be to support those businesses going forward and that will continue to require some deleveraging.
How we do that just give us a little bit more time and we'll come back to you.
And our next question comes from Brian Meredith from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones here.
The first one could I get in the P&amp;C insurance business what the new money yield is versus the current book yield in the investment portfolio? Do you have that? For the P&amp;C business I don't have it.
I think in total that most of the cash flows relate to the new P&amp;C business Brian because we put new money to work at about 3.9% and what was rolling off was about 4%.
Research Division</strong> Okay so not much deterioration in that here going forward.
Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then Andy just quickly you gave us what the non-CAT weather was for the home owners.
Do you have that number just for the whole consumer unit? And how does that compare to last year's first quarter? Yes.
So all-in personal line 2.7 points of non-CAT weather all auto and home combined relative to last year.
Research Division</strong> Relative to last year.
That's the increased relative to last year.
That's the increased relative to last year yes.
Research Division</strong> Perfect that's helpful.
And then last one Doug.
I'm just curious Doug could you talk about progress being made in the Group Benefits business with respect to voluntary products for the public exchanges that you guys have been working on or just exchanges? Absolutely.
Good progress to report.
We now are out in the market with our critical illness product feel good about that and working on that product with several customers as we speak.
And I expect as we move toward the latter half of 2014 we'll be also in the market with accident for a 1/1/15 launch as well.
So excited that revamped our FLEX disability out with critical illness and accident to come shortly.
And our next question comes from Jimmy Bhullar from JPMorgan.
Operator? If you can go to the next question and then Jimmy can re-queue if he needs to.
Our next question comes from Christopher Giovanni from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess one of the big surprises is also just kind of the pace of buybacks particularly so far in April.
So I wanted to see if you could talk some about how tactical and aggressive you look to be with the current authorization recognizing you're almost 1/3 of the way through this $2 billion program that doesn't expire until the end of 2015.
I'll let Chris give some perspective and then I may answer as well.
So Chris go ahead.
Yes.
Chris yes we're pleased that we're able to do 2 tranches.
I think we've said before that we've been operating under a 10b5-1 plan that we put in place for the first and second quarter of late 2013.
So we were very opportunistic our agent was very opportunistic.
But our current philosophy really hasn't changed as it relates to the program over the next 6 quarters.
We want to be stable consistent generally ratable.
But we do have opportunities to be opportunistic here in the second quarter remaining in the next 2 months.
So generally we're pleased with what we've done to date and we're going to continue and execute ratably over the next 6 quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for Doug just a question kind of on the broader markets.
So you continue to show significant improvement across really all your commercial businesses as you stayed disciplined on the underwriting.
The rate of price change seems to be pretty consistent with what we've seen from your peers but I wanted to see if you could comment on any maybe incremental changes in terms of carriers looking to get either more aggressive around pricing or terms and conditions? Chris I'm not sure I would add any to what I shared to my opening comments.
Again recently balanced marketplace from own perspective very much improved profile of our businesses small and middle and we talked about Group Benefits as well.
Like the product balance in the marketplace we'd still be driven by our product analytics.
And '15 is a long way out but feel very good about the start of '14 and we'll jump into the second quarter as we ended the first.
And our next question comes from Tom Gallagher from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just had a more of an overall company enterprise risk management question first and then a specific question on the statutory.
But the -- so Chris I know you mentioned $1 billion of capital as what's been earmarked from this transaction to be freed up.
But also just listening to Liam's comments to open the call about the significant risk reduction I have to imagine that from an enterprise risk management standpoint capital buffers would be significantly reduced as a result of this transaction or the need for capital buffers.
So is there any contemplation in terms of how we should consider that and ultimately how those capital buffers that exist today may come back to the shareholders? Yes.
Tom it's Chris.
I think one point of clarification what we're saying about the $1 billion that's the incremental to the capital management plan we announced for '14 and '15.
So that is the incremental amount of capital that we will put to work.
I think as far as your question regarding capital buffers capital levels going forward is valid.
And we are thinking really second half of '14 into '15.
Now that the legal entity separation work is done and then I think you know why that was so important to put that out it put us in a position to run Talcott's 2 remaining legal entities off over a longer period of time with the right targeted runoff capital levels.
And we do have the ability to recalibrate that with Bob Rupp's help from the risk side.
but our guiding principles will always be for Talcott to be self-sufficient in a stress scenario.
So with that backdrop yes I do think there is some tolerances that we'll look at more closely and change going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just a specific question on how we should think about not necessarily dividendable earnings generated from Talcott U.S.
going forward but I'm more interested in capital generation.
And I realized there are restrictions to getting money out today because of negative earned surplus.
But I assume the outlook on statutory earnings all things equal now that you've folded in White River or that you're in the process of folding it in probably looks a little more clean and clear.
Can you update on what kind of earnings stream on a stat basis you think that entity can produce over the next couple of years? Yes.
I think about it just sort of total capital generation no matter if it goes through the P&amp;L or directly to equity.
So we still think in terms of -- Talcott has about $300 million to $400 million of annual capital generation.
I think we got off to a good start particularly in '14.
So a lot of that was front-ended.
But even beyond that I think it's reasonable to project a steady dividend return from Talcott that will be our philosophy.
And it will be tied to excess capital and generating statutory surplus as these blocks run off.
And our next question comes from Jay Gelb from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> As we work through all the shifts in the balance sheet and earnings from the Japan VA sale I just want to get a sense of whether you feel the 10% corroborating ROE by 2016 would still be reasonable? Jay it's Chris.
How to frame that I think the way we think about it is that the dilutive impact on core earnings of Japan we think the go-forward business is their growth with our incremental accretive capital management plans can offset that dilution and gives us a good shot at achieving a 10% ROE in '16.
Research Division</strong> That's what I thought.
And then for Andy the personal lines growth is the fastest in many quarters and you are now generating attractive margins from a combined ratio standpoint.
I just want to see if there's anything else going on there sort of underneath the surface that you feel is driving those better results.
Jay it's Andy.
Thanks for the question.
Yes we feel great about our growth and it's absolutely a reflection of the momentum we created in 2013 across all the channels.
So I talked about agency channel ease of doing business so I won't spend any time on that.
But don't underestimate the power that that can have in that channel for agents and CSRs to place more and more business with us.
We've grown our AARP Agency appointments almost 12%.
We now have 7 200 agent locations out there that are taking advantage of that terrific program.
We've also begun rolling out a new class plan for auto that has the effect of expanding our underwriting sweet spot if so to speak.
We traditionally had a strong focus on more mature older AARP members and that very methodical and disciplined expansion of that sweet spot is starting to hit the market.
So we've got a lot of things sort of hitting at the same time in the agent channel that are contributing to the growth and then just better execution and marketing in our AARP direct channel and class plan implementation there that also serves to open up our underwriting aperture.
Lisa we have time for one more question please.
Our final question comes from Randy Binner from FBR.
Research Division</strong> So kind of like an older -- more of a forest rather than all the trees kind of question and it goes back to the Japan VA divestiture here.
And so if I kind of put together the expense saves and the looser capital buffers and the potential for debt paydown and buyback is that going to -- just from an EPS perspective not necessarily from an ROE perspective are all of those initiatives -- can we expect all of those initiatives going forward in our model to kind of make up most of that lost EPS that's $0.40 or so a year that we lose from the VA earnings in Japan? Should we think about those initiatives as being able to kind of backfill that in our models going forward or do we kind of lose those EPS the way we seem to be for second quarter here? Randy 2 points.
One I think implicit in that question the way we think about it is that net income is going to become more and more important to us as we focus in growing book value per share and ROE.
So net income as you know over the last couple of years has been the de minimis or negative sometimes just given the amount of hedging so I would also have that as a first thought.
The second derivative is your core earnings comment then is -- what I was trying to say before is that yes I believe that the growth in our go-forward businesses our efficiency saves expense saves the incremental accretive capital management actions I think we can offset Talcott's Japan's core earnings decline starting in '16.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just -- that's very helpful.
But when you say starting in '16 I'm sorry wouldn't it start kicking in before that? Yes.
But sort of the crossover point.
What I'm saying is that the dilution the $0.40 that you're talking about the dilution in earnings again I think we could make that up over the next couple of years.
Research Division</strong> Okay as we work it through over like the next 18 months is kind of...
Yes.
Thank you.
And thank you everyone for joining us today.
We certainly appreciate your interest in The Hartford.
And Shannon and I are available after the call for any follow-up questions you might have.
Thanks and goodbye.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Laurel and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Hartford Second Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I'll now turn the call over to Sabra Purtill head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to The Hartford Second Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
We released these results and also filed the investor financial supplement 10-Q and financial results presentation which includes our third quarter 2014 outlook yesterday afternoon.
All of these documents are available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Our speakers for today's call include Liam McGee Chairman of The Hartford; Chris Swift CFO; Doug Elliott President; and Beth Bombara CFO.
Following their prepared remarks we will have about 30 minutes for Q&amp;A.
I would note that other members of our executive leadership team are also available for questions during that section of the call.
As described on Page 2 of the financial results presentation today's call includes forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results could be materially different.
We do not assume any obligation to update forward-looking statements and investors should consider the risks and uncertainties that cause actual results to differ from these statements.
A detailed description of those risks and uncertainties can be found in our SEC filings which are also available on our website.
Our presentation today includes several non-GAAP financial measures.
Explanations and reconciliations of these measures to the comparable GAAP measure are included in our SEC filings as well as in the earnings release and financial supplement.
I'll now turn the call over to Liam.
Thank you Sabra.
Good morning everyone.
It's really good to be with you.
You know in my life I don't have much experience working less than full time.
So the last few weeks have been welcome as I've been able to focus on my health.
And I do appreciate the many expressions that I received from so many of you.
And I'm very pleased to report that I'm feeling much better and stronger.
I have also had time to reflect on The Hartford's remarkable turnaround and transformation.
The Hartford faced severe challenges when I arrived in 2009 and its future was unclear.
Today with a focus on growing profitable businesses the company's prospects are bright.
Now as you know while we made many changes over the last 5 years I believe 3 were critical to our success.
And we'll continue to deliver shareholder value.
We brought clarity to the company's strategic direction focusing on businesses where we could compete and win.
We have invested and we'll continue to invest in new capabilities for those businesses.
The result has been sustained margin expansion with more expected.
We significantly lowered the risk profile of the company to a more reasonable level most importantly recently with the sale of Japan.
This will reduce the volatility of The Hartford's results and will lower our cost of capital going forward.
Finally we focused on generating and freeing up capital.
We retained businesses that could create capital and sold other businesses that were capital-consumptive.
We also reduced the size and risk of the Talcott Resolution liability freeing more capital in the process.
As a result The Hartford now has a very strong balance sheet with the capital flexibility to take accretive actions to create shareholder value.
These 3 steps: reducing risk narrowing the strategic focus and generating capital were key to the transformation and position us well for the future.
The CEO transition from me to Chris has gone smoothly.
Over the last few years I spent a great deal of time on talent development and succession planning with the Board of Directors and this thoughtful preparation enabled the board to act quickly and decisively when I decided to step aside as CEO.
And I must emphasize that I couldn't be more confident in The Hartford's future with Chris Swift as CEO Doug Elliot as President and Beth Bombara as Chief Financial Officer as well as the entire executive leadership team.
Personally I have fully transitioned to my new role as Executive Chairman and I look forward to supporting this team.
Finally I want to thank you our investors and analysts.
I have valued your support and insight but if I could be candid some days more than others and in the early days of my tenure your patience with this banker who as I was reminded was relatively new in the industry.
I appreciate your support.
I particularly want to thank The Hartford's employees of whom this management team has asked a lot and they have consistently delivered with great pride and integrity.
Without a doubt the nearly 18 000 teammates are The Hartford's greatest strength.
With that I'm proud to turn the call over to the Chief Executive Officer of The Hartford Chris Swift.
Chris? Thank you Liam for your comments.
On behalf of the board the management team and 18 000 Hartford teammates I want to thank you for all that you've done for our company.
Your willingness to make tough decisions along with your guidance leadership and passion drove the successful transformation of The Hartford.
You have positioned the company for great success and the leadership team and I are committed to achieving our vision of an exceptional Hartford.
Personally I am deeply appreciative of our partnership over the last 5 years.
Thank you Liam.
I'm honored to serve as CEO of this great company and I am excited about the path we are on.
We continue to execute the company strategy profitably growing the P&amp;C Group Benefits the Mutual Fund businesses reducing the size and risk of the legacy annuity blocks and transforming The Hartford into a more effective and efficient organization.
We have made tremendous progress.
Profit margins are expanding in P&amp;C Group Benefits and Mutual Funds.
All the businesses are growing the top line with the exception of Group Benefits where margins have recovered strongly and the top line has stabilized.
Although prior year A&amp;E development and elevated storm activity impacted The Hartford's second quarter results the underlying trends in this quarter reflect a positive momentum in the businesses.
In the P&amp;C lines written premiums grew 3% and the ex-CAT ex-prior year combined ratio improved 0.9 points from the second quarter of 2013.
Written premiums in Small Commercial were up 6% and the underlying combined ratio was 85.4% an improvement of 2.2 points compared to the second quarter of 2013.
Core earnings in Group Benefits and Mutual Funds increased over the prior year quarters.
I am confident we will continue to expand margins.
Our pricing levels are higher than our loss cost trends in the P&amp;C and benefits businesses.
In Middle Market new property and general liability capabilities are driving profitable growth in selected markets a dramatic improvement over the past 2 years.
In Group Benefits earnings have sharply rebounded and we expect the business to produce a sustainable after-tax core margin of around 5.5%.
We are rolling out new voluntary offerings and I expect to see top line growth beginning next year.
The Talcott Resolution team has meaningfully reduced the size and risk of the annuity liabilities in the U.S.
and of course in Japan.
For the U.S.
blocks we will continue to use targeted initiatives to accelerate the annuity runoff.
As we said before we will consider transactions as a potential tool but I expect that we will create the most value for shareholders if we manage the runoff of the U.S.
block ourselves.
With a more focused company we must operate more effectively and efficiently while investing in new capabilities.
We have done well in our cost neutrality efforts having eliminated the stranded cost from the Life and Retirement Plans businesses and we will continue to manage expenses as Talcott shrinks.
We also will continue to invest to increase our competitiveness in key markets and improve the quality of our customer experiences.
I am confident in The Hartford strategy.
I'm also very confident in this management team.
With the changes announced Tuesday the team possesses an outstanding mix of experience and skills perfectly suited to The Hartford.
Doug Elliot has demonstrated he is one of the best P&amp;C operators in the business.
As president his new responsibilities now include all of P&amp;C and Group Benefits including claims providing greater accountability and alignment across these businesses.
Beth Bombara has been an outstanding leader in both finance and operating roles at The Hartford most recently in Talcott Resolution.
Beth's financial skills and business expertise will be critical factors in this team's success.
Bill Bloom is a great addition for The Hartford.
He has deep technology and customer service operations experience but equally important he knows the insurance business.
I'm also excited to have Ray Sprague join my leadership team as leader of Strategy and Business Development.
Ray is a seasoned P&amp;C industry veteran who has done a terrific job in building our industry-leading Small Commercial business.
Ray will work closely with me and other senior leaders to accelerate the pace of growth across the enterprise.
In addition Ray will serve as acting head of Consumer Markets to replace Andy Napoli.
We appreciate Andy's contributions to the company over the past few years and we wish him great success in his next opportunity.
Finally I'm pleased that Brion Johnson will lead Talcott Resolution in addition to continuing as the Chief Investment Officer.
Brion has annuity experience in his background and he's the ideal leader for Talcott as it continues to reduce the size and risk of the U.S.
annuity liabilities.
Every member of the team understands the insurance business model a trust-based business where confidence is earned one day at a time with customers and partners.
When that confidence and trust accumulates over time it develops into a powerful brand and a market leader.
This team is determined to win and build an exceptional company.
On July 1 we announced the closing of the sale of the Japan annuity business.
We went from signing to closing in 60 days an outstanding accomplishment.
Both parties worked diligently to get this done and I appreciate everyone's effort.
The Japan sale is an important milestone.
It accelerates the strategic transformation of The Hartford and significantly improves the company's risk profile.
The sale also enables us to increase the company's capital management plan for 2014 and 2015 by $1.275 billion.
Consistent with our prior programs the expansion will be balanced between equity and debt repurchase in this case about 60% equity and 40% debt.
We plan to put most of that additional capital to work by the end of this year.
In addition we have increased the common stock dividend by 20% to $0.18 per quarter based on the improving earnings power of the P&amp;C Group Benefits and Mutual Fund businesses.
With the expansion of the capital plan the total share repurchase and debt repayment for 2014 and 2015 is nearly $4 billion.
Over time the generation of excess capital from profitable growth in the businesses and the runoff of U.S.
annuity block and the use of that capital in accretive ways will be critical to driving ROE improvement and increasing book value per share.
In closing I am thrilled to take on this new role.
I am very confident in the future of this company.
The ingredients for success are here.
And I am proud of all that this team has accomplished and we are relentlessly executing on The Hartford's strategic plan with a focus on creating shareholder value.
Now I will turn the call over to The Hartford's President Doug Elliot.
Doug? Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
Before I review the financial results for Commercial and Consumer markets a few comments on our new team.
I'm excited about working more closely with our Consumer Markets group.
We have an excellent team and a terrific brand in the consumer space and I'm looking forward to being their partner.
I'm also excited about Bill Bloom joining our team.
Bill and I have worked together in the past.
The leadership and expertise he brings to our organization will be invaluable for our journey ahead and an excellent fit with the strong technology and operations team that we already have in place.
Likewise I'm very pleased about Ray Sprague's broadened responsibilities across the enterprise.
He's a proven leader with deep insurance experience that we will leverage to further expand our franchise.
And lastly we are very fortunate to have Stephanie Bush ready to step into the role as head of Small Commercial.
Stephanie has a long and successful track record in P&amp;C Commercial here at The Hartford and has ideally prepared to take this business to new levels of growth and performance.
Now let me get into our results.
I'll cover P&amp;C Commercial first move on to consumer and conclude with Group Benefit.
We had a very solid second quarter in P&amp;C Commercial.
Across our business units we posted quality earnings and delivered strong top line results even as the market shows signs of growing competitive pressure.
Overall I remained pleased with our execution and confident in our ability to navigate changing market conditions.
For the quarter we delivered core earnings of $213 million on an all-in combined ratio of 94.2.
Compared to the second quarter of 2013 this is an increase of $15 million in core earnings and an improvement of 4.2 points on the combined ratio.
Underwriting gains were up $66 million in the quarter versus last year offset by a decrease in net investment income.
Current accident year CATs were relatively modest for the second quarter of 2014 and $9 million less than the quarter 1 year ago.
The underlying combined ratio excluding catastrophes and prior development was 91.1 for the second quarter of 2014 an improvement of 2 points versus prior year reflecting our strong execution across all business units.
Turning to the top line our total written premium was up 2%.
Excluding the decline in our programs business of $28 million which is a result of our re-underwriting actions P&amp;C Commercial grew 5% for the second quarter.
We also continued to drive written pricing gains achieving a 6% increase for Standard Commercial.
We are watching our pricing trends very closely given growing competitive pressure and diligently executing our pricing segmentation methodologies.
Importantly pricing continued to outpace loss cost trends.
Let me now drill down in each of our P&amp;C Commercial businesses.
We had another excellent quarter in Small Commercial with an all-in combined ratio of 89.3.
Last quarter I noted that our top line momentum was building.
Those trends continued this quarter with policy retention improving to 84% and new business of $140 million for the quarter up 12% over prior year.
Equally impressive our underlying combined ratio of 85.4 improved 2.2 points versus second quarter 2013.
Our Small Commercial team is driving top line written pricing gains and superior underwriting results.
We could not be more pleased with our path forward.
Moving to Middle Market.
I continue to be encouraged by our steady progress here posting an underlying combined ratio of 95.1.
Although this is essentially flat versus prior year we are executing well in critical priorities.
Renewal written pricing at 6% remained ahead of loss cost trends and our underlying combined ratio in Middle Market worker's compensation is down nearly 5 points for the quarter versus last year.
Offsetting these results was an increase in our property losses.
We see nothing specific beyond these losses other than the normal volatility associated with the property line.
Over the last several years our team has done a great job of balancing our worker's compensation book with more writings in property and general liability.
In fact we're very excited to have just locked in a new property per risk reinsurance treaty that provides CAT capacity up to $500 million.
This is a very important line of business in our strategy and we expect to thoughtfully continue our property expansion.
Commercial auto has been a more challenging line across the industry including us as well.
Our Middle Market written pricing in this line is in the high single-digits as we continue to address loss cost trends.
Our retentions have remained quite strong despite the rate increases indicating to us that the overall market is also raising rates.
Middle Market premium was up 3% in the quarter primarily driven by improved retention.
New business of $112 million was down slightly from last year with a well-balanced product mix.
Pricing and underwriting actions remained disciplined and the rate adequacy of our Middle Market book is significantly improved from prior years.
Turning to Specialty Commercial.
National accounts delivered another strong quarter of written premium growth up 7% versus last year.
We continue to believe that available new business in the market is down slightly from 2013 but we're still seeing opportunities to write new accounts.
Our retention rates continue to exceed 90%.
The repositioning of our programs business remains on track as is progress in our Financial Products business as well.
Shifting over to consumer.
We experienced elevated property losses in the second quarter posting an all-in combined ratio of 106.3.
Excluding CATs in prior year development the underlying combined ratio was 89.6 up 0.7 points from a year ago.
Like others in the industry weather adversely affected both auto and homeowners results on a CAT and ex-CAT basis.
The largest CAT event in the quarter was a string of May hailstorms that crossed 11 states from Montana to South Carolina accounting for nearly 1/3 of our CAT losses.
Outside of CATs and weather we experienced higher fire losses in the quarter versus last year contributing 4 points to the underlying homeowners combined ratio.
At this point we don't see an unusual pattern developing with respect to fire losses other than the usual volatility associated with this peril.
Top line momentum continued with 4% written premium growth driven in part by auto new business production particularly strong in both agency channels.
Premium retention was flat for auto and homeowners and a solid result given continued written pricing gains of 5 and 8 points respectively.
Perhaps most noteworthy was our auto PIF growth of 1% in the quarter a direct result of more precise pricing segmentation and service delivery improvements.
Our expense ratio decreased this quarter to 23.2.
This is due to the timing of technology and marketing spend which is weighted more to the back half of the year.
We expect our full year expense ratio to be comparable to the 23.8 we reported in the first quarter.
Now let's move to Group Benefits.
This was another strong quarter for Group Benefits with core earnings of $52 million up 41% from last year.
Profit improvement this quarter is driven largely by the life and AD&amp;D lines where we benefited from favorable life mortality.
Disability trends were slightly elevated in the quarter yet remain favorable year-to-date through June.
For the quarter long-term disability incident trends continue to be favorable offset by lower recoveries versus a year ago resulting in a slightly higher disability loss ratio.
We continue to see favorable effects of our underwriting pricing and claims management initiatives reflected in the achieved margin improvement across our employer group life and disability block.
The rate of improvement has been significant in recent years and we will remain disciplined with these operating leverage.
Looking at the top line.
Fully insured ongoing premium declined 7% compared to prior year.
As we've noted previously the decrease is primarily attributed to our exit of an agreement with a third-party targeting sales through financial institutions.
Excluding the premium from this arrangement our top line is down about 1% to prior year.
Overall book persistency on our group life and disability business exceeded 90% through June which is up over 10 points from 2013.
We are very pleased with our renewal block and the overall persistency rebound versus 2012 and 2013.
Industry data indicates that new sales are trending down slightly.
Our sense is that in early 2014 large case customers have taken a tempered approach to moving their business particularly as they sort through the dynamics of the Affordable Care Act and the trend to our more employee-direct benefit options.
We believe this may have been a factor in our own strong book persistency and contributed to our lower quarter-over-quarter fully insured ongoing sales of $45 million.
We continue to actively quote business and we believe that we're competing effectively for new accounts leveraging our expanding service and claim capabilities.
In closing this is a solid quarter for us across P&amp;C and Group Benefits.
While P&amp;C Commercial competition continues to grow I would still characterize the environment as rational.
Our aggressive and disciplined actions in Standard Commercial over the last 3 years have us in strong position to compete moving forward.
And we continue to make the people and technology investments that will be necessary to succeed in the years ahead.
Now let me turn the call over to Beth Bombara.
Thank you Doug.
Last evening we reported second quarter core earnings of $144 million or $0.31 per diluted share.
Second quarter results included $178 million after tax or $0.38 per diluted share of unfavorable items.
The largest item was $164 million after tax of A&amp;E unfavorable prior year development consisting of $146 million for the annual asbestos reserve study and $18 million for environmental.
Aside from these 2 annual studies unfavorable prior year development was not material totaling $10 million before tax of which $7 million was for accretion of discount on worker's compensation reserves.
During the quarter current year catastrophes totaled $127 million after tax slightly above our outlook.
There were 13 named catastrophes with winds and hail being the highest cost perils this quarter.
The net loss for the quarter was $467 million or $1 per diluted share compared with the net loss of $190 million or $0.39 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2013.
The largest contributor to the net loss for the quarter was the loss in discontinued operations due to the Japan annuity sale which totaled $617 million after tax.
P&amp;C Group Benefits and Mutual Funds generated core earnings of $113 million down from $197 million in second quarter 2013 primarily due to the A&amp;E prior year development.
As you know we complete the annual asbestos and environmental studies in the second quarter.
Environmental reserve development totaled $27 million before tax in part due to increased cleanup cost on a few water waste sites.
The $212 million before tax increase in the asbestos reserve primarily arises from a small number of insured.
For those insured a higher-than-expected frequency and severity of mesothelioma claims drove the reserve increase.
We continue to proactively pursue legislative and legal remedies to manage these claim cost including transparency around the various asbestos bankruptcy trusts.
Mutual Funds core earnings rose 5% over the prior year due to higher fees resulting from increased assets under management.
Performance remains solid with 76% of funds outperforming their peers over the last 5 years.
We continued to see sales momentum up 5% in total and up 38% of our equity funds while redemptions also declined.
However net flows were slightly negative due to our previously announced decision to liquidate target date funds which had $709 million in assets under management.
Excluding that liquidation net flows were positive by about $300 million.
Talcott's core earnings for the quarter were $101 million which was above our outlook principally due to higher investment income including limited partnerships.
The risk of our U.S.
VA book continued to decline.
With U.S.
equity markets up 5% in the quarter 95% of the GMWB contracts are out of the money.
We continue to pursue various policyholder programs to reduce the size and risk of the Talcott books of business.
In addition to the ISV program for U.S.
retail fixed annuities that was launched in the first quarter during the second quarter we rolled out a second Enhanced Surrender Value program for certain of our lifetime benefit contracts.
With the impact of these programs and surrender activity fixed annuity accounts decreased by 7% and variable annuity contracts decreased by 3% during the quarter.
Turning to investment income.
The general account is producing solid investment returns with modest impairment.
We have a highly diversified portfolio with investments in a broad array of asset classes.
Our overall credit risk profile is not materially different from a year ago.
Yields have held up relatively well despite the low interest rate environment without increasing credit risk or portfolio duration.
The decline in total investment income from the prior year quarter was principally due to lower assets as a result of the runoff of Talcott and lower limited partnership income.
Excluding limited partnership return the annualized portfolio yield in the quarter was 4.1% down approximately 10 basis points from a year ago.
Low interest rates and tight credit spreads remain a challenge.
We will continue to evaluate opportunities to enhance returns by leveraging our investment capabilities without compromising portfolio quality.
For instance in the second quarter we achieved a reinvestment rate of 3.8% aided by attractive opportunities in private placement securities and commercial mortgage loans where we could maintain credit quality in yield by capturing liquidity premium.
The Hartford's book value per diluted share excluding AOCI at June 30 2014 was $39.21 down slightly from year end but up 2% from June 30 2013.
The growth in book value per share over the last year was due to the positive impact of net income and share repurchases over the last 12 months which were partially offset by shareholder dividends.
During the second quarter we repurchased 10.2 million common shares for $351 million at an average price of $34.53 per share.
For the 12 months ended June 30 2014 our core earnings ROE was 7.8% compared with 6.1% at June 30 2013.
I would like to point out that core earnings ROEs for all periods presented have been recast to reflect Japan earnings as a discontinued operation which has the effect of reducing our core earnings ROEs.
Looking forward we would expect our full year 2015 core ROE to improve to the low 9% level after giving effect to the full execution of our capital management plans as well as continued profitable growth in P&amp;C Group Benefits and Mutual Funds.
On July 1 we announced the closing of the sale of the Japan annuity business for cash proceeds of $963 million.
As a result of the additional financial flexibility and risk reduction provided by this sale our capital management plan for 2014 and 2015 has been increased by $1.275 billion to a total of almost $4 billion.
And in addition we increased our common dividend by 20%.
The combination of the capital benefit from the sale improved cash flow generation from Talcott and strong earnings power from P&amp;C Group Benefits and Mutual Funds enables us to execute this plan and will contribute to future ROE improvement.
The $1.275 billion increase is comprised of 2 pieces.
First a $775 million increase in equity repurchases including a $525 million accelerated share repurchase plan or ASR that was executed yesterday and will be completed by year end.
Second we allocated $500 million for additional debt reduction including associated premiums and transaction expenses which also will be completed this year.
With the expansion of the share repurchase plan beyond the portion being used for the ASR we expect that equity repurchases will be about $300 million a quarter.
Actual repurchases will of course depend on market conditions and other factors that may impact market access and timing.
In the third quarter through July 29 we have purchased approximately 3.9 million shares for $140 million.
Yesterday we also declared a quarterly dividend of $0.18 per common share up 20% from the $0.15 that we began paying in mid-2013 and the third increase in 3 years.
Before turning to your questions let me provide a brief summary of our third quarter outlook.
Our core earnings outlook for the third quarter of 2014 is $335 million to $355 million or $0.74 to $0.79 per diluted share assuming $452 million shares outstanding.
Talcott earnings are projected at $75 million to $85 million.
This outlook assumes catastrophe losses of $87 million after tax which is equivalent to about 5.2 points on a combined ratio.
This outlook is about a 15% increase in core earnings per share after adjusting third quarter 2013 for items that included a favorable $55 million corporate settlement cash below budget and prior year development.
To wrap up the second quarter was another quarter of significant progress.
Despite challenging catastrophe and non-CAT weather conditions underlying performance in P&amp;C Group Benefits and Mutual Funds continued to improve and Talcott made a significant leap forward in reducing the size and risk of its portfolio with the sale of Japan.
We remain focused on achieving greater operating efficiency and effectiveness.
And the combination with these accomplishments and our expanded capital management plans we are on the right path to achieving book value growth and higher core earnings ROEs which will continue to create shareholder value.
And we'll now turn the call over to Sabra to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Beth.
Laurel could you please repeat the Q&amp;A instructions? [Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jay Cohen with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions maybe first a big picture question for Chris.
As you look out a couple of years Chris is there some ROE range that you think the company can achieve if you're looking out to '16 or '17? Jay I think Beth tried to describe what we see in the near term through '15 with our announced capital management plans and where we see the momentum of the go-forward business is.
When you get in the '16 '17 we previously -- continue to believe we can expand ROE in those years as we continue to grow and manage capital accretively but probably not at the rate of pace that we see through -- now through the end of '15.
So we still believe we're in that 30 to 40 50-basis-point continual improvement through those years at this point in time.
But as you know when you get further out Jay a lot of dynamics in the economics of the P&amp;C cycle and the businesses but we're still confident that we're going to be able to expand beyond where we see 2015 currently.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful Chris.
And second question maybe for Doug.
In the Consumer Markets business you highlight a certain elevated level of non-CAT weather and fire losses.
I'm wondering if you can discuss those losses relative to a normal quarter? How much above typical were those losses? Jay it's Doug.
Couple of thoughts you have our detail inside the supplementals.
You know that our core accident year essentially quarter-over-quarter was up 2 points.
And that was due to non-CAT both weather and fire.
I would also describe that 2-point change as roughly above normal as well.
So I think I would use a couple of points as the answer on both accounts.
Research Division</strong> I guess I was talking just about the Consumer business.
Did I say Commercial? I meant Consumer if I...
Did I say Commercial? I was talking Consumer.
Your next question comes from the line of Vincent DeAugustino with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> To start asbestos is something that we generally can sometimes look through and so I don't want to get too hung up on it.
But we've seen a number of asbestos retro deals particularly with births [ph] around industry.
And I'm just curious if this is something that you'd consider doing and then along with that how dilutive something like that might actually be relative to the downside on policy limits sort of as a worst case scenario? Vincent I think we're very aware of the third-party solutions that are out there and available in the marketplace.
And with that said where we are today is we haven't found anything that we think is economical for us at this point and believe really managing these liabilities off ourselves is the optimum strategy.
I think also you need to consider that these are really complex claim matters and again we feel best suited with the expertise that we've built longer -- in a long period of time with John Kinney and his outstanding claims team.
And it's really in our best interest to manage our own claims also during this period of time.
So you put the economics you put our claim handling and expertise available and that's where our current thinking is.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then just for a quick follow-up.
On the product development side and with a lot of the defensive work here being a complete to many of Liam's earlier points.
I get the sense that there's been an incremental step-up sort of if we can call it your offense strategy here in 2014.
I was hoping to maybe get a preview of any of the new products or distribution opportunities that you might have here on the radar with the new leadership structure.
Vincent I'll just give you a perspective and I know Doug will want to share his view.
So I think you're specifically referring to Ray Sprague joining my leadership team as the head of Strategy and Business Development.
And he's got a broad mandate and the broad mandate is obviously to accelerate our growth and our capabilities and Doug and I when we talk and we talk in terms of product we talk in terms of distribution we talk in terms of geographic presence.
So Ray's got a great track record in being very innovative creative in the Small Commercial area.
So Doug and I want to leverage that capabilities across a broader platform.
Doug what color would you...
Maybe a few more ideas Vincent on top of Chris that I will share with you.
In the second quarter we did announce a new partnership with AARP in the Small Commercial space so that will be a growing opportunity we look after and work at.
Secondly as we've commented previously we have a number of initiatives in our Group Benefits space.
We rolled out a critical illness product in the second quarter and still working on other products as we move through '14 and to '15.
And lastly and I know we've shared quite a bit of this with you our journey to round out our Middle Market workers comp book continues.
We feel very good about progress in the property and general liability area.
But as noted now new upside structure relative to reinsurance capacity and property I think allows us to continue to expand.
So a lot of work in the product development area across all these businesses.
Your next question comes from the line of Erik Bass with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> It's a question for Doug.
In commercial lines as you highlighted you continue to get rate above your loss cost trends.
Just based on what you're seeing in both the industry pricing trend as well as Hartford's specific dynamics how much longer do you think that this can continue? Maybe what are you doing that's enabling you to outperform the industry? Erik maybe few thoughts for you.
First thing I would say is as we look out 90-plus days.
We don't see something dramatic occurring that will have a dramatic shift or impact on the trend line.
So I could be wrong but as I think out and I look at what we're trying to accomplish third quarter beyond our behavior's going to be very consistent.
That's our attempt.
Secondly I'll remind you and others that as we think about margin improvement and we're constantly thinking about that there are other levers that we're constantly working.
So we're working underwriting nonrenewal renewal strategies we have a number of initiatives in our claims area.
And so we're working on a number of areas not just pricing against loss trend and we feel good about what we've accomplished to date.
I know that I've referenced our work in the auto area it's not a line where we're pleased with the overall performance today.
It is getting additional attention.
I talked to you about our rate gains in the second quarter.
Those gains will continue.
That's our intent into quarters 3 and 4 and beyond.
So a lot of work going on and I'm bullish that what we've accomplished so far will be the beginning of a really good path forward.
Research Division</strong> If I can ask quickly on Group Benefits where do you think the margins can get to over time? And is it achievable to get back to kind of the 7% range where you were in 2007 2008? Erik it's Chris.
In my prepared remarks we talked in terms of 5.5 on a sustainable basis.
So I would temper your expectations a little bit on 7%.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And what does that translate into an ROE? I would say again with the statutory capital and the GAAP capital that we hold against that businesses we think we could operate in the low double-digits and try to grow it from there.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Chris with regard to the -- or Beth with regard to the ROE outlook I'm thinking that since the life business has the greater portion of the common equity of The Hartford ex AOCI than P&amp;C but P&amp;C delivers the lion's share of the earnings that it might make sense to explore every avenue to continue to shrink that the runoff life business including the U.S.
variable annuity.
I know you mentioned you prefer to keep that in-house but perhaps you could expand your thoughts on that.
Jay it's Chris.
Let me just take the strategy point and then Beth will talk about the ROE implications and the allocation of capital.
I think if you think about it where we're at right now now that we've sold Japan we're really left just with a U.S.
platform.
You've always heard us talk about that we think that risk is -- we understand it very well.
It's been managed historically very well.
We know how to hedge it.
We make about $300 million a year on that VA line of business.
Our hedge costs are low obviously at these new market levels including our macro program.
So that we really are positioning Talcott as a steady capital provider to the holding company in years to come.
And then we'd like to use that capital again to redeploy into higher accretive purposes.
So that's sort of a simple model.
But I always did say we're always aware of I'll call it options out there as a potential tool.
But what we see right now for the next -- a couple of years at least is what we'd like.
So Beth would you share your comment? Thank you Chris.
And I'll echo a lot of Chris's comments on that as we sit here day and look at not only just the GAAP earnings generation that comes from the Talcott businesses but with the elimination of Japan and the reduced volatility from our statutory results we really do see ourselves on a path of being able to rely more consistently on taking dividends out of the life entities.
And all of that obviously over time will play into the ROE equation.
And it is a balancing act between increasing that ROE maybe initially and long term what we think the economics are of this business and provides us with greater I think capital flexibility for the long term.
But at Chris said we're always mindful that there are other opportunities to accelerate that but that's kind of the equation that we go back and forth in our minds with.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then for the low-9% return equity outlook for 2015 does that assume continued underlying margin expansion in the Property &amp; Casualty business? Yes that includes our thoughts going into '15 of the margin expansion that we see in our businesses as well as the full execution of the current capital management plan that we have.
Your next question comes from the line of Randy Binner with FBR.
Research Division</strong> I want to go back to asbestos I'm afraid.
I know that there's been issues across the industry but it's still -- it's a lot of money to lose there opposed to -- for what's supposed to be a decaying liability.
And I guess I want to get a better sense you can provide us with what's going on? I get that it's peripheral defendants by mostly mesothelioma claims but are you losing at trial? Are you settling more? Are you just spending more on claims and defense costs? I'd like to kind of understand better what's going on.
And with a hope to kind of get a sense objectively at least of when we think this might trail off.
Randy it's Chris.
Beth's prepared to give you more insights.
But just from my chair and observing this over a little bit of time you're not going to like this but there's really nothing new here.
I mean this is still a handful of our accounts.
There's nothing new that's sort of bubbling up.
When you have I'll call it sort of elevated frequency in our accounts and you extend that out over a longer period of time when our model predicts you can have a relatively large movement in our loss reserves.
But Beth will give you a little bit more of the details on what's going on.
But the key point here is there's nothing new that we're managing or that we're getting exposed to.
It's more of the same.
Yes Chris I would agree with that.
And again as we said if you think about the charge that we took the $212 million pretax think about roughly 2/3 of that coming from the experience that we're seeing with a small number and you said all the right words peripheral insureds where we're seeing an increase in meso claims.
And we would have expected to see a decrease.
And given the severity that comes with meso claims and we extrapolate that out through our models we get the increase that you saw -- that we recorded this quarter.
The medical science continues to point to the fact that we should start to see a decrease in these claims.
And depending on what activity affects our insureds and the type of coverage that we provided to those specific insureds that see these increases this is the result that we see.
But as Chris said it's not really anything new.
It's just how that activity is affecting our insureds and how it runs through our models where we extrapolate over many many years.
Research Division</strong> No that's helpful.
So I mean these are legitimate meso claims.
These is not the -- the expansion of liability is more to the peripheral of the defendants but the actual claim is legit and so you're just having to post more to settle more basically.
Yes exactly.
This is not like what we saw years and years ago whereas people who were claiming that they were affected but they had no manifestation of an actual disease.
Your next question comes from the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions on the quarter.
Doug you mentioned I believe in your prepared remarks an expectation for the Consumer Markets expense ratio for the remainder of this year.
I was wondering if you could give us any help on your expectations on the Commercial side for the expense ratio as well.
John let me frame that.
There aren't any variations that I think affect your model.
And Chris I can't think of anything relative to run rate that are either front loaded back loaded or has some seasonality to it.
So John I think what you've seen is a good indication of where we are and I think you can move forward from there.
Research Division</strong> Okay very helpful.
Then on the new Enhanced Surrender program can you just give us a little bit of color on what you're expecting there? How much account value or number of contracts you're targeting? Should we think about the cost benefit analysis there as being pretty similar to the most recent surrender program on the VA side? Yes sure this is Beth I'll take that.
So again there's 2 programs.
There is we refer to as the ISV which is focused on a fixed annuity block and it's about 4 billion to 5 billion of account value that we are making this offer to.
And our expectations on that is that we would see about a 15% take rate.
On the ESV program it's similar to the program that we did last year with some modifications.
And again it is targeted at our variable annuity book and a specific tranche of about $6 billion of account value.
And we're assuming there that we'll probably see about a 15% take rate as well.
That's down from what we saw with our first program.
But we think given the fact that this program -- the offers are a little bit less than before and we've also been out to this group of policyholders with our first offer so we expect the rate to be a little bit less.
And when we put the combination of both programs together and at those take rates we'd expect to see about $150 million-ish of capital benefit when we look at sort of our stress scenario capital.
Research Division</strong> And that $150 million is both of them put together? Both of them put together yes.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then just one final quick question.
So I think you ended the quarter with about $1.3 billion of cash and short-term securities at the parent.
Can you just sort of roll us forward because here in a few days or maybe in the month of July a lot of things happened right? You brought in the cash proceeds from the Japan annuity sale you've done a decent amount of buybacks including the ASR.
So on a pro forma basis at the end of July would it be correct to just sort of take those couple of things into account and roll it forward or is there anything else more significant? That would be the most significant item.
The only other item that we did and it's really a timing item more than anything else is we did accelerate some of the dividends that we'd normally take out of the P&amp;C legal entities.
So if you read our Q you'll see that in there.
And that was about $500 million or so.
And that really was just an acceleration of what we normally would have done over the third fourth and first quarter on the remaining of this year and into next year.
It's not an indication that overall we plan to be taking more of the P&amp;C company going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Gallagher with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to focus on what you've announced for the capital planned the update in the capital plan.
Now that Japan is behind you should we expect that there's going to be another phase of capital return for 2015 related to risk buffer and U.S.
Talcott? And if so when do you think we'd get an update on that? Or finally is that more -- it's something that we should be thinking about more for 2016 and not 2015? It's Chris.
Beth will provide some commentary too.
So I think you might know this right? We just announced what we want to do for the rest of '15.
So we're going to start getting after that.
I think the accelerated plan demonstrates our commitment to really deploy our excess capital in what we think is the most accretive ways.
And we'll look -- we're always going to continue to look at the balance sheet all the combinations of factors in our operating companies our holding companies and always challenge ourselves to being as efficient as possible with our capital.
So Beth would you provide any additional color? Yes and I think Chris that summarizes it very well.
Again when you look at the plan that we have announced a significant amount of both equity repurchases and debt repayments that we'll be dealing for the remainder of '14 and going into '15.
And I think we've demonstrated that as we look at our overall capital position and look to manage our Talcott entities at appropriate levels that to the extent that we were to make any changes of that in the future we obviously would share that with you.
But I would not be expecting some sort of big change coming in the short term as it relates to our capital management plan.
But I think more importantly if I just could add what we really are focused on is looking at what the statutory capital generation is in the Talcott entities and getting ourselves in a place where we can rely on a predictable stream of cash flows coming out of those entities over time.
Research Division</strong> And just -- Beth just a follow-up on that.
Does the plan that you just announced contemplate utilizing U.S.
Talcott dividends? So our current plan does anticipate kind of consistent with where we've talked about before $250 million $300 million of dividend so that is contemplated in the current plan and to some extent a portion of that was contemplated in the previous plans.
Research Division</strong> You said $250 million to $300 million? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just the last question.
The $500 million additional debt reduction can you just bring us up to speed in terms of how far out does that get you? And how should we be thinking about what maturities that takes care of? I believe that actually gets you through more than 2016 maturities if I'm doing the math correctly and it would get you out until 2017.
Or am I not thinking about that correctly? Is there -- are you more thinking about doing early retirement of some of these maturities? Yes so a couple of things.
So first of all with the plan that we had announced earlier this year as you may recall we had indicated that we were targeting 2 of the maturities that we have in 2015 which is about $456 million.
And so those will come to the normal course.
The $500 million that we've allocated for debt repayment for the remainder of this year we don't have another maturity that would happen in the third or fourth quarter of '14.
So we will be looking at either calling a tranche of debt or a tender.
But that would be an acceleration.
We don't have a maturity that lines up with that.
Laurel we have time for one more question please? Your next question comes from the line of Brian Meredith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions here.
First one Doug you mentioned elevated property losses in the Middle Market commercial lines space.
What would that add to the underlying combined ratio in the quarter kind of relative with what's normalized? So we share the underlying and the Middle Market overall combined ratio side.
I'd point you there in our supplement.
I would characterize the losses as primarily fire a couple of larger losses in our property book and we also have one in our inland marine book.
So somewhat outsized but not -- we don't take enormous retentions.
Our retentions are normally under $10 million and so they did cause a little bit of blip in our Middle category.
Research Division</strong> Can you quantify what the kind of -- was it 1 point 2 points in the underlying? There's so much seasonality.
I will give you a sense.
Our core as I think about second quarter non-weather losses over the last 3 or 4 years were higher than the norm by a couple of points overall.
So it's not -- certainly not 10 points in the book right? It's 2 to 3 points.
They're having quarters that have had that kind of activity.
But relative to 2013 we're a little outsized.
Research Division</strong> Next question for you Doug.
Just curious now that you're going be running the Consumer business any changes that you anticipate making and specifically focused on your other agency business that continues to kind of contract here? So this is 2 days in.
No changes planned.
We have a terrific franchise with AARP and obviously you know that I've been deep in the agency space on the Commercial side for the last 25 years.
So excited about what we will be doing there what we're doing there currently today.
Just a lot of work in front of me and looking forward with Ray to working with his team.
So more to come as we talk forward.
Thank you Brian.
We'd like to thank all of you for joining us today and for your interest in The Hartford.
If anyone has any follow-up questions please feel free to contact either Sean or myself by phone or e-mail.
Thank you and have a good afternoon.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Tiffany and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Hartford’s Third Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
And after the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Sabra Purtill Head of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you Tiffany.
Good morning and welcome to the Hartford’s third quarter financial results webcast.
Our result the Investor Financial Supplement 10-Q and financial results presentation which includes our fourth quarter 2014 outlook were all filed yesterday afternoon and are available on our website.
Our speakers today include Chris Swift CEO of the Hartford; Doug Elliot President; and Beth Bombara CFO.
Following our prepared remarks we will have about 30 minutes for Q&amp;A.
As described on Page 2 of the financial results presentation today’s call includes forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results could be materially different.
We do not assume any obligation to update forward-looking statements and investors should consider the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from these statements.
A detailed description of those risks and uncertainties can be found in our SEC filings which are also available on our website.
Our presentation today also includes several non-GAAP financial measures.
Explanations and reconciliations of these measures to the comparable GAAP measure are included in our SEC filings as well as in the earnings release.
I’ll now turn the call over to Chris.
Thank you Sabra.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today.
Yesterday afternoon The Hartford reported outstanding third quarter results.
Core earnings were $477 million or $1.06 per diluted share up 25% year-over-year on a per share basis.
We delivered earnings growth in every business and saw the benefits of the capital management program.
Catastrophe losses and limited partnership returns were both favorable in the quarter.
The third quarter results reflect the progress we are making across the company.
Profit margins expanded in every business.
In total P&amp;C the combined ratio excluding cats and prior-year development improved 2.6 points to 90.2 reflecting our sustained focus on pricing improvements.
We are also growing the top line in P&amp;C.
In small commercial written premiums were up 7% fueled by positive pricing and new business premium growth.
In both consumer markets and middle market the top line was up 3% reflecting pricing and disciplined underwriting.
Doug and Beth will provide additional detail in insights about the quarter.
When I reflect on the numbers the most important takeaway for me is that the results demonstrate that the Hartford is on the right track.
Investments we have made to drive profitable growth have taken hold and we are starting to see the positive results.
Looking ahead our primary objectives are improving return on equity and growing book value per share to drive top-quartile shareholder returns.
To do this you can expect to see continued progress in four major areas.
First expanding product in underwriting capabilities; second increasing distribution effectiveness; third improving the customer experience in operating efficiency; and fourth effective capital management including the ongoing runoff of Talcott.
Let me address each of these briefly.
Since 2011 we have been expanding the P&amp;C product suite and underwriting tools to diversify our business mix and meet changing customer needs.
As you know the initial focus in P&amp;C Commercial was expanding our property and liability expertise to complement the existing workers compensation capabilities and we are pleased with the progress in these areas.
We continue to add new capabilities to allow us to meet more of the insurance needs for broader range of customers.
Over the last year we have updated our commercial auto underwriting tools addressing changing trends in that market.
We also recently signed a new property reinsurance program that enables us to underwrite accounts with up to $500 million of covered property per location.
Finally we remain focused on expanding the voluntary product suite and group benefits preparing for a more employee centric model as the market adjusted to the new healthcare environment.
Employee choice benefits is an expanded group benefits of voluntary offering which is being rolled out with customized educational materials to help employees to make informed decisions about their benefits.
On the distribution side with the ongoing consolidation of the brokers and agent channel it is more important than ever that we offer intermediaries products and services that position us as a go-to provider for their customer needs.
More than 11 000 agents and brokers are licensed to do business with The Hartford.
Our objective is to continue to effectively serve larger brokers and agents by anticipating and meeting the needs of their evolving business models while also continuing to serve and support the thousands of agents who are the lifeboat of small commercial and consumer markets businesses.
For example the market leading ICON platform in small commercial helps agents of all sizes to get customer quotes in a timely and efficient manner.
In addition our award winning operation centers effectively handle customer service for many distribution partners bringing them to spend more of their time on business generation.
Our third area of focus is improving the customer experience and increasing operating efficiency.
Well The Hartford has strong capabilities in claims and policyholder servicing.
We have the opportunity to significantly improve the back office’s efficiency and the customer experience with the previously announced investment commitment to improve our technology infrastructure.
The objective is to increase The Hartford’s ease of doing business and put the ultimate customer at the center of our activities.
One example is the ongoing rollout of a new P&amp;C claim system which will improve claims efficiency enhanced by new data and predictive analytic capabilities.
We are also working to upgrade digital and customer self service functionality across the P&amp;C operations.
These enhanced capabilities will help continue to differentiate The Hartford.
Finally capital management will be a critical element as we redeploy excess capital from two sources the go forward businesses and Talcott Resolution.
With improving fundamentals the P&amp;C companies are positioned to continue to generate significant amounts of excess capital.
In addition with the recent corporate reorganization both the group benefits and the mutual fund companies now represent independent sources of dividends to the holding company.
As we have discussed previously we also intend to return capital to the holding company from Talcott over time both through the generation of statutory earnings and the runoff of the legacy annuity liabilities.
In combination capital generation from the businesses and from Talcott will continue to provide The Hartford’s flexibility to pursue a broad range of capital management actions while we invest in new capabilities to drive future profitable growth.
In closing I’m confident that The Hartford is on the right track to achieve our goals of the higher ROE and growing book value per share.
During the third quarter we made progress in each of the four areas that I discussed today and we are committed to continue their progress in the quarters and years ahead.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Doug.
Thank you Chris and good morning.
We posted an outstanding quarter across our property casualty and group benefit businesses.
We’re very focused on execution in our frontline teams where we worked closely with our distribution partners and make critical risk selection decisions.
We believe that our energy here is paying off as we optimize pricing and retention to drive franchise value over the long-term.
Let me share some highlights by business beginning with P&amp;C commercial consumer and then group benefits.
Our results in P&amp;C Commercial remain very consistent with recent quarters.
Strong underlying margins were driven by written pricing gains sound underwriting management and growth in our target business lines.
We feel very good about our performance as the market shows signs of increased price competition.
For the quarter we delivered core earnings of $268 million up $92 million versus prior year on an all in combined ratio of 90.4.
Very low current accident year catastrophe losses in the quarter contributed $26 million to the improvement.
The balance of core earnings increased is largely due to improved margins and slightly favorable prior year development.
The underlying combined ratio excluding CATs and prior year development was 90.2% an improvement of 3.1 points versus prior year.
These financial results reflect our operating focus and discipline and give us confidence that we’re making sound strategic and tactical decisions.
On the top line total written premium was up 1% excluding our programs business P&amp;C Commercial grew 4% for the third quarter.
We also achieved written pricing gains of 5% for standard commercial outpacing current loss cost trends.
While the measurement of writing pricing and loss cost is essential to our business.
Our management of profitability is far more sophisticated than these two overall metrics convey.
Detailed insights drive our risk decisions especially as written pricing and loss cost trends are converging.
In every book of business there are cohorts that are performing below targets.
These might be defined by geography industry class or underwriting profile just to name a few.
Calling this business and taking corrective action is central to achieving and maintaining target margins.
That’s why I always say there is more work to be done whether it is in certain lines of business or specific risk classes we need to remain keenly focused on our operating risk discussions on an account-by-account basis.
Let’s now take a more in-depth look at the results of our P&amp;C Commercial businesses.
Our performance in small commercial demonstrates the ongoing strength and momentum we’ve developed in this business.
The third quarter underlying combined ratio was 85.6 1.5 points better than 2013.
The all-in combine ratio was 86.4.
Written premium grew 7% driven by new business premium growth of 11% and policy retention at 84.
Both the new business growth rate and the policy retention rate were consistent with trends in the second quarter of this year reinforcing our strong momentum as we had for year-end.
As Chris noted we’re very excited to see our investments in this business coming together to deliver exceptional financial performance.
In addition to our excellent technology and customer service platforms we have robust analytics running behind the scenes on every facet of this business.
We are successfully balancing growth and profit because we know where the business opportunities exists we understand loss trends at the most granular levels and we’re partnering with our agents to manage pricing appetite and growth.
Moving to Middle Market we continue to make steady progress with an underlying combine ratio of 92 down 3.9 points versus prior year.
Renewal written pricing remained ahead of loss cost trends building on our margin improvement from recent years.
I’m especially pleased to note that our underlying combined ratio in Middle Market workers compensation is down over 8 points for the quarter versus last year.
After several years of disciplined pricing and underwriting actions on this book of business it’s gratifying to see the combined ratio within our target range.
Written premium growth in Middle Market was 3% driven in part by solid results in property and general liability as we continue to have success in building our new business mix.
Over the last 12 months we’ve made several important changes to strengthen leadership in a number of geographies and to better align our field organization with key distribution partners.
These actions help to deliver new business of $112 million up $5 million from a year ago and consistent with second quarter 2014.
We view our Middle Market written pricing trends averaging in the mid single-digit range this quarter as being quite strong given our improved overall profitably since 2012.
Commercial auto continues to lead the way for written pricing increases.
I expect just to continue as we suspect many others are not at our target combined ratios for this line.
Increased bodily injury severity is the primary driver which we will continue to address through rate increases and underwriting actions.
In National Accounts written premium was down 9% for the quarter a sizable strength in the growth we posted in recent quarters.
The decline is largely attributable to uneven timing of premium flows.
When we peel back our operating metrics we continue to see positive performance indicators within our core earnings.
our retention rates remain above 90%.
We’re writing two new accounts for everyone lost slightly behind our 2013 page but still very solid.
We’ve been successful in growing this book of business over the last several years.
We like our competitive niche and we’re confident in our plan for growth and profitability.
In Financial Products we had a solid quarter with written premium up 7%.
This growth is coming in our E&amp;O business where we’ve developed some very strong industry-based solutions.
In the E&amp;O we’re seeing greater competition in the largest segment and we’re tightly managing to our pricing standards.
Shifting over to consumer we posted an all-in combined ratio of 91.2.
excluding capacities and prior year development the underlying combined ratio was 89.4 improving 1.7 points from a year ago largely driven by lower expenses.
Cat loss is well below our expectations.
We’re above our experience in 2013.
Last quarter we shared that weather and fire losses adversely affected both auto and homeowner’s results.
We have not seen any unusual patterns emerge and the third quarter was back in line with our expectations.
On the top line written premium was up 3% driven by continued success with our AARP through agents offering where new business was up 11%.
Auto and home renewal written pricing increases were 5% and 7% respectively and we remain focused on improving rate adequacy particularly in the homeowners’ line.
Our expense ratio decreased this quarter to 23.1 which is essentially flat with the second quarter.
We are ramping up spending in the fourth quarter on several technology projects and new business marketing efforts and we anticipate our full-year expense ratio will be approximately 23.7.
And finally let me shift the group benefits we have core earnings of $38 million were up 6% from last year.
Recall that the third party marketing relationship in our association financial institutions block will be terminated as of year-end but will still be included in our year-over-year comparisons are based my comments now on results excluding this business.
We continue to see profit improvements driven by favorable life and disability results.
The life loss ratio was down 2.9 points due to continued pricing discipline and favorable mortality.
Disability trends also remained favorable for prior year with the loss ratio improving 2.2 points that we’re beginning to see the rate of that improvement decelerate.
Long-term disability incident trends continue to be favorable while claim recoveries were lower than prior year although still in line with historical norms.
Looking at the top line fully insured ongoing premium declined 2% compared to prior year.
Overall book persistency on our employer group block of business exceeded 90% year-to-date through September and we’re very pleased with our renewal pricing adequacy.
Fully insured ongoing sales of $57 million for the quarter was essentially flat with last year.
Given the lead times on large account business we can see that 2015 is shaping up positively.
Sales activity has increased and we’re encouraged that our recent investments particularly those to enhance our product service and claim capabilities are resonating with customers.
In fact we will welcome back several large case customers in the first quarter.
As Chris noted in his opening our overall suite of capabilities is allowing us to compete more effectively to win cases and then achieve greater employee participation through effective marketing and enrollment tools.
These are positive signs for us.
We like everyone else are adapting to the changing benefit landscape and we’re very pleased with our progress.
Let me now wrap up by noting again this is a very strong quarter for us across P&amp;C and Group Benefits.
We remain disciplined thoughtfully managing our renewals and finding spots to compete aggressively for new business.
We have a franchise that is getting stronger every quarter and we’re focused on bringing shareholder value over the long-term.
Now let me turn the call over to Beth.
Thank you Doug.
Last evening we reported third quarter core earnings of $477 million or $1.06 per diluted share.
The results reflect improved profitability in our P&amp;C group benefits and mutual funds businesses as well as favorable catastrophes and prior-year development.
The impact of better than budgeted catastrophe losses and favorable prior-year development totaled $68 million after tax or $0.15 per diluted share.
In addition to these items we also benefited from strong limited partnership returns of $100 million before tax for an annualized yield of 14%.
Net income for the quarter was $388 million or $0.86 per diluted share compared with the net income of $293 million or $0.60 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2013.
The largest non-core earnings items this quarter was DAC unlock charge of $102 million after tax about equal to last year.
This year’s DAC unlock included a charge of $84 million after tax for annual policy holder assumptions review reflecting modest changes in last benefit utilization expense and rate assumptions.
This quarter do not have any impact from discontinued operations given the sale of our Japan business in the second quarter.
However third quarter 2013 included a loss and discontinued operations of $72 million from the Japan business.
P&amp;C Group Benefits and mutual funds generated core earnings of $413 million up 30% compared with $317 million in the third quarter of 2013 due to improved underwriting margins and P&amp;C including lower catastrophe losses improved results from group benefits and mutual funds and higher limited partnership income.
That covers the results from P&amp;C and Group Benefits so I will briefly cover the other segments.
Mutual funds core earnings rose 22% over the prior year primarily due to an increase in average retail and return in mutual fund assets under management compared with the third quarter of 2013.
Performance remains solid with 76% of funds outperforming their peers over the last five years.
Mutual funds sales remain strong at $3.8 billion and equity fund sales rose 11%.
Redemptions continue to decline resulting in positive net close for the third quarter in a row after adjusting for the liquidation of our target date funds at the second quarter.
Excluding that liquidation year-to-date net close were positive by nearly $400 million.
Note that in October we moved the management of some VA in retirement funds from the mutual fund segment to our investment operations.
For reporting purposes this internal move will result in an outflow of approximately $2 billion from annuity mutual funds and about $700 million from retirement mutual funds in the fourth quarter.
There will be no significant impact on mutual funds earnings as a result of this move.
Talcott’s core earnings for the quarter were $122 million which was above our outlook for several reasons including lower than expected ESV and ISV program cost and higher investment income including limited partnership income.
We continue to see a steady run-off of our U.S.
VA business where contracts have declined more than 13% since September 30 2013.
Fixed annuity contracts decreased by 5% during the quarter and are down 19% since a year ago.
Although expenses for the ISV and ESV annuity programs were lower than expected this quarter the surrender activity for both of these programs was in line with our overall expectations.
In the Corporate segment core losses totaled $58 million up from $16 million in the third quarter of 2013.
Both quarters had favorable items.
The third quarter of 2013 include a total of $55 million of benefits related to recoveries for past legal expenses on closed litigation and a favorable settlement on liabilities at the company’s former parent.
The third quarter of this year included $7 million of legal expense recoveries.
Keep in mind that the principal driver of the losses in the corporate segment is interest expense which we expect to decline in the future because of our debt capital management plan.
We intend to repay two 2015 maturities that totaled $456 million and also to spend up to $500 million to call or tender for debt under the current capital management plan.
However with the recent change in market conditions we expect to execute the $500 million call or tender in 2015 rather than by year-end 2014.
Our investment portfolio continues to generate solid investment returns with modest impairments.
Portfolio yields have held up well despite the low interest rate environment without any material change in our credit risk or portfolio duration.
Excluding limited partnerships the average pre-tax portfolio yield was 4.1% consistent with the second quarter and down slightly from 4.2% in third quarter 2013.
Total investment income increased 3% from the prior year quarter which is principally due to higher limited partnership income partially offset by the effect of lower asset.
The Hartford’s book value per diluted share excluding AOCI at September 30 2014 was $39.82 up 1% from year-end and 2% from September 30 2013.
The growth in book value per share over the last year was due to the positive impact of net income and share repurchases partially offset by shareholder dividends.
During the third quarter we used $845 million to repurchase common shares.
We repurchased $320 million or 8.9 million shares through open market purchases at an average price of $35.78 per share.
Under the accelerated share repurchase program we began in July we paid $525 million and took delivery of 11.2 million shares during the quarter.
This program has not yet been completed.
Based on the volume weighted average stock price through September 30 2014 there were approximately 3.5 million shares yet to be delivered under the ASR.
In total through September 30 we have used about $1.5 million to repurchase common shares under our 2014 2015 program which will be little less than $1.3 billion to be repurchased through 2015.
As you know one of our key goal is to drive our core ROE to a level that exceeds our cost of equity capital.
For the 12 months ended September 30 2014 our core earnings ROE rose 8.2% compared to the 6.4% of September 30 2013 reflecting the growth in core earnings as well as the impact of our capital management program.
Our cost of equity capital has come down reflecting our restructuring action.
We expected to continue to decline as Talcott runs off and the Company’s earnings volatility and risk profile become more in line with our P&amp;C peers.
Finally before turning to your questions let me provide a brief summary of our fourth quarter outlook.
Our core earnings outlook for the fourth quarter is in a range of $375 million to $400 million or $0.85 to $0.91 per diluted share assuming about 440 million shares outstanding.
This outlook assumes catastrophe losses of about 2.5 points on the combined ratio or $42 million after tax and about $5 million after tax of prior year development for worker’s compensation accretion.
Talcott core earnings are projected at $90 million to $95 million and Group benefits is expected to be in the low to mid 40s down from $55 million last year which had included some favorable items.
In addition keep in mind that limited partnership returns were strong in last year averaging 11% annualized while our outlook for the fourth quarter assumes 6% annualized yield from limited partnership.
To wrap up the third quarter was another quarter of significant progress.
P&amp;C and Group Benefits and Mutual Funds results were outstanding and we repurchased a substantial amount of equity under our capital management plan.
We are pleased with our progress this year and remain optimistic about the future.
We look forward to sharing our 2015 outlook with you in February when we report fourth quarter financial results.
I will now turn the call over to Sabra to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Beth.
Before opening up the call for the Q&amp;A period I wanted to note upcoming dates for The Hartford.
First please note that Chris Doug and Beth will be at the Goldman Sachs Insurance Conference in New York City on December 9th and we hope to see many of you there.
In addition as Beth mentioned we expect to announce our fourth quarter results and our 2015 outlook on February 2nd with a call on the morning of February 3rd.
Please note that consistent with the prior years on call on the morning of February 3rd will be a little bit longer than our normal quarterly call and we will note that and hopefully you can plan accordingly.
Tiffany could you please repeat the Q&amp;A instructions at this time? (Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</strong> Two things first the small commercial property and casualty insurance earned premium growth of 7%.
It looks like that’s the fastest versus second quarter of 2012.
Policy-in-force growth was modestly positive.
So I’m just trying to get a sense of what contributions were delivering that strong growth is it more new business or pricing? Jay good morning this is Doug.
I think it’s a combination of all right.
So we had steady progress across the pricing front.
Our new business numbers that we layout in the sub but were also very strong in the quarter.
And the combination that now we have in the entire platform are our ICON platform with all the products in it is being very well received by the marketplace.
So we’re hitting nicely across the board and I expect that moment to continue.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then on a separate issue I believe for Beth.
For the Talcott earnings we understand the guidance for 4Q I believe previously it might have been either you or Chris did give the expectation for Talcott earnings growth for 2015 in terms of how – what order of magnitude that would decline? And if you could update us there that would be helpful just so we can square our models.
So we I don’t believe have given an outlook for 2015 as it relates to GAAP earnings for Talcott.
I believe we’ve talked about in the past is cash free earnings generation in and around that $250 million to $300 million range.
As far as the runoff of the block for your models it suggest that as you look at our surrender rate and you can view that as a proxy as you think about the earnings in that book declining offset by the fact that we have seen market improvement for that has the counter effect of improving the fees that we get on the accepting block.
Inc.</strong>  Okay.
Any other insight you can provide there or it’s a bit of a moving target?  Then I think we’ll provide more insight when we get – in February when we talk about our outlook for 2015.
Inc.</strong>  Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Vincent DeAugustino with KBW.
Your line is open.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Hi good morning everyone.
Just to start with two comp questions.
So one of the things that we’ve I guess heard more often in the industry is some of your peers trying to put on as much profitable business right now particularly in small commercial workers comp.
And so the thought process here that we’re hearing is that your peers want to put on as much profitable business on the small commercial side since it’s sticky and then from that essentially have a profitable base to work through the next cycle.
And so as we kind of look at your results and see the strong and consistent small commercial underwriting result and profitability and then also seeing your retention coming up I’m curious if you guys are taking a similar approach? And then secondly we’re hearing a lot of chatter around the strategy.
Does that imply that we really are within workers comp starting to see that markets often? Vince good morning this is Doug.
A few thoughts for you.
One is that we’re very bullish about what we’re doing in the marketplace in small commercial in both platforms.
And more importantly results-wise and we share those results with you.
So as we think about areas we want to grow this franchise clearly small commercial is right in the top row of that discussion.
Secondly workers comp is a big product relative to our small commercial offering.
It’s been a profitable product work for us.
It continues to be profitable and I expect that history to move forward in a very good trajectory.
So we’ve got aggressive plan moving forward.
I’m pleased with the progress in the third quarter expect that to continue and I think we’re seen as a market leader in this space.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay.
Good call there and just a little bit more granular.
So we’ve also heard that New York and California from the comp side has been particularly challenging.
I just wanted to see how the states are performing for you guys since I think they are two of your largest and then more broadly how loss trends maybe playing out between mid-market and small commercial within workers comp? Good.
So few questions inside your second piece.
First there are some headwinds in a few of the states relative to filings.
I would say that those headwinds really are correlated to loss experience that has been improving across the books of business.
So not total surprised.
As we look at the performance and the adequacy of our book still feel very very good about that and we’ll continue and monitor closely and obviously with the workers compensation line as you suggest it is a state-by-state march very geographic centric.
Second part of your question middle versus small.
As I commented in my earlier remarks we are very pleased of our progress on our workers’ compensation book in the middle slightly different tenancies in our small book we tend to be on the micro end of small but again we see good signs on the frequency end; very-very low to minus frequency across both our books of business and the severity dynamics both wage and other have been very moderate over these past couple of years so to us the all-in loss trends are very much in check.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> All right.
Good deal.
Nice quarter.
Thanks.
Take care.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Meredith with UBS.
Your line is open.
Yes thanks.
Good morning couple of questions here.
First just on the reinsurance program you talked about the new property reinsurance which related to $500 million per risk.
Number one was that alternative capacity traditional capacity and then on the top of the reinsurance any other initiatives that you are looking at right now i.e.
internal reinsurance type programs to take advantage of the more competitive reinsurance market? And I have a follow-up.
Brian it’s Chris.
Thank you for your question and joining us today.
The $500 million per location policy was traditional.
Reinsurance they are working with our long time partners.
So we feel good about it gives us the opportunity to expand our property appetite in an appropriate fashion.
I think as it relates to – across the alternative capital in general I know there has been a lot of discussions in – I think fundamental review is that – the market in general is just re-thinking how to support risk taking in general and – but as it relates specifically to our books of business I think we’ve talked about it in the past.
I mean we feel good about our reinsurance programs the cost of it and I will call it the more permanent nature of it over longer period over different cycles.
So we are aware and participate in a lot of discussions and explorations of what’s feasible from an alternative capital.
But we are not heavy users of reinsurance right now.
But we will continue to push ourselves to see if there is something creative – that can help benefit our shareholders.
Great and then second question Doug.
Curious we’ve seen a drop in gasoline prices obviously with the big drop in oil prices.
Have you guys seen any increase in frequency in the auto line or should we expect maybe that will start to pick-up here as we head into the holiday seasons? Our trends really have not changed much in the last quarter or so.
We will certainly watch carefully and that may indeed happen with the holidays upon us but at the moment I would say pretty much as they’ve been.
Great thank you.
Thank you Your next question comes from the line of Randy Binner with FBR Capital Market your line is open.
Yes great.
Good morning.
Thank you.
I’d like to follow-up on what Jay Gelb was asking a little bit on Talcott.
And so I think what we’re hearing is that when we think about capital that can come out or they’re going forward as kind of the corollary to estimating earnings.
Is it true that we can take contract count decline and thus AUM decline as a good proxy for the decline in required capital at Talcott? Is that going to be a pretty linear read for us going forward? Randy it’s Beth.
So no I was talking about earnings.
When it relates to required capital as we talked about in the past a reduction is required.
So that capital is not going to be on linear path on as the book runs off.
It obviously will decline over time and obviously impacts our views as to excess capital within Talcott but it’s not a linear calculation.
Okay.
Well if it’s not that what would be our best kind of tool for estimating the draft and required capital? And while I’m calling with this the follow-up would be I think the RBC last was 500% there.
So if required capital declines it seems like RBC can be allowed to decline as well.
So just trying to get a feel for how you can think about how capital could be freed up there as a result of these good surrender activities you’re getting in Talcott? Okay so a couple of things.
First as it relates to our views around required capital in the Talcott entities and what their needs are as you know that’s something that we continue to evaluate.
RBC is one thing that we do look at as it relates to that.
I’ll remind you that we focus on RBC requirements in a stress scenario not just the printed RBC in this environment.
But as we talked in the past we have been working to evaluate what should be their appropriate target going forward taking into consideration RBC target as well as other things like absolute levels of surplus and liquidity.
And our expectation is that we will be sharing with you in February our views around the excess capital that we see in Talcott as well as what we could see as a reasonable expectation and timetable for extracting that capital over time as the book continues to runoff.
So I’d ask you to wait until February because I think we’ll be able to provide you better information then that will help you see how we’re thinking about the capital generation coming from the Talcott entities.
Okay.
Then just one more if I could.
I mean what is the printed RBC? If we’re not going to change the stress case conversation right now what is the printed RBCs as off right now in Talcott as of the third quarter? So as of the third quarter we’re at about 500%.
Okay so 500%.
Okay.
Thank you  Your next question comes from the line of Erik Bass with Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Hi thank you.
If Doug can you talk a little bit more about the growth outlook for group benefits which it sounds like you’re pretty positive in your prepared remarks but how much activity are you seeing in the market and how our pricing trends and then maybe also are you starting to see any benefit to premiums from employment growth or higher wages? Good morning Erik.
Maybe just a few comments and we’ll be back in 90 days to give you the full 2015 layout.
We are encouraged by the early look at some of our January 1 activity which is why I shared the comments that I did.
January just the beginning of the first quarter but we’ve had some nice success on both the new business front and feel good about our retention of key existing accounts.
So let’s leave it at that and we’ll be back with a broader look in 2015 in a few months.
Got it.
I guess are you seeing any benefit though from just on existing business from either higher enrollments or employment growth? We are working hard on our penetration inside existing accounts for sure.
I would say that that work is ongoing.
As you know we’re really right in the throes of enrollment season so I would had a better sense probably out 45 days and we can share maybe some of that at Goldman Sachs.
We are seeing relatively small growth in the employment area so don’t think the numbers of workers in our major cases it is driving significantly upwards in general small positive growth.
Got it.
Thank you and just one more follow-up on Talcott.
I guess your fourth quarter guidance is higher than what you had been guiding for the third quarter initially.
Is that’s just because of lower expenses related to the ESV program or is there anything else driving that? Yes so it’s lower expenses for both ESV and ISV.
There were two programs and then also as we’ve seen markets improved a little bit of an uptake because of that as well.
Got it.
Thank you.
Erik it’s Chris.
In addition to what Doug said I guess what I’m particularly pleased with the teams performance there is – I’ll share with you more in early 2015 but a number of clients I would say large ones that we lost maybe three years ago between our replacing and some of our activities.
I’m going to come back to the form.
And I think that’s just speaks to one of our reputation our claim handling capabilities and just the power of the group benefits franchise so more to come as Doug said but I’m particularly pleased with our new sales activities and old clients returning back to us.
Great thank you for the additional color.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Your line is open.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> Hi good morning everybody and congrats on a very solid quarter.
A question for Doug on the P&amp;C commercial side so we’re seeing pricing begin to decline a bit but it’s still above your estimated loss cost trends.
I’m just wondering if there is any change in your outlook.
Yes I know it’s maybe a little bit premature you want to talk about 2015 in a few months but are you still expecting that you can generate improvement in the accident your combined ratio moving forward maybe recognizing that some of the non-cat impacts have been probably a little bit below what you have been pricing for.
Yes good question tough question and a critical one.
We have seen the market become increasingly competitive over the last several months and I comment on that in my script.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> Yes.
On one front it’s not surprising given the overall improvement and accident year results crossed both our book and also in the industry.
However I suggest still more work to be done in pockets returns in the aggregate or not I mean it’s generally been acquired couple of quarters on the cat side.
So putting all this in one basket I continue to describe the overall market place is generally rational.
Especially in the sectors we compete in which largely or small commercial and middle.
And that’s important to us in our franchise and I share those results in terms of stability.
It’s hard for us to predict these competitive dynamics going out what I can’t tell you is that in the fourth quarter we intent to execute much in the way we had these last several quarters which is we’re working hard to renew our best performing accounts and driving pricing in terms of those accounts that need improvement.
And I think you know our history we’re not afraid to walk away from accounts that we believe we can’t get to price adequacy.
So our price is going to be very consistent going to watch the market place we’re still on top of last trend and I expect that to continue in the fourth quarter and then we’ll talk more as we get out to January about 2015.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> Okay really helpful.
And then maybe a question for you to Chris or Beth.
Just coming back to Talcott in sort of the historical look at a stress scenario in maintaining that 325% risk-based capital ratio I know that’s not the only metric but it’s one that we’ve talked about pretty consistently now for a couple of years.
Given so much change and so much reduction in risk in that segment and I noticed you also mentioned a very high proportion of the remaining variable annuity reserve outside of surrender charge at this point.
So potentially we could see that surrender rate continue to stay very elevated here.
I’m just wondering whether you have actually finalized yet of you on whether the $325 million stress target income down and if so by how much? Hey John it’s Chris.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> Hi Chris.
Let me just – I’ll remind the units – let me just philosophically rate remind you.
I know you know this and others but we really want to run Talcott to be capital self-sufficient particularly in a stress scenario so that philosophy is unchanged.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> Yep.
You’re referencing the $325 million and all I would tell you is again it’s best that – we’ll cover more in early 2015 but we know that could come down.
So it is going to be different going forward we’re working our process with our various constituencies but particularly our regulators.
So I believe we’ll have an acceptable outcome that will talk through in early 2015.
Beth I don’t if you would add anything more?  No I think you said it very well.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> Yes that’s very helpful thanks.
Look forward to February.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Yes thank you.
I’ve got two questions the first is you admission that the underlying portfolio yield in your investment portfolio held up pretty well without taking much more risk and seems to defy gravity given we know about the interest rate environment.
Can you just talk about how that occurred and why that occurred? Jay it’s Chris.
I think – if you really look at the numbers this quarter that I think Beth talked to is our reinvestment rate was about 3.6% the maturity I’ll call it securities rolling off this quarter were 3.7%.
So I think again our HIMCO professionals continue to look for the right opportunities I don’t think we are stretchy from a risk side.
But we do have also had some core capabilities and real estate mortgage loans I’ll call it private placement that offers the opportunity to be very selective and try to get the best yield for the risk of return trade off.
Got it thank you.
Second question on the commercial business the expense ratio is kind of last couple of quarters has really been at the higher end and where it has been for the past three years.
I think you’re making investments in that business.
Do you think this is sort of a peak-ish number or could we see that never rise a bit further as you continue to invest in the business? Jay good morning this is Doug.
When we think about the expense these were really are balancing two parts of equation one part is that we’re investing back inside these business particularly on the technology side so obviously that’s working against this relative to absolutes here but we have a number of initiatives inside our businesses where we’re looking at expense opportunities in general we’re harvesting ideas that are going to make us some more efficient productive place over time where that is particularly relevant is clearly in the middle market as you know in the last couple of years our middle market top line has come down a little bit between 2011 and 2013.
And so we’ve got some experienced pressures there that we are coming aggressive with making adjustments forward.
But albeit looking out I’m pretty comfortable with where we are today and very pleased with the trade off we’re making between invest and overall outcome relative to combined ratio and margins.
So this is not – it is sort of a peak-ish number.
we wouldn’t expect that to rise further from here unless obviously the top line changes noticeably? Certainly true.
correct.
Great thanks.
Your next question comes from Thomas Gallagher with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Just a quick one for Doug and then one for Chris or Beth.
So Doug just I guess given what you mentioned on workers’ comp now hitting return hurdles I presume that’s an overall comment and I guess Commercial Auto is the other business where you had beginning rate any – fair to say the heavy lifting is behind you from a rate standpoint or any other businesses where you expect to get significant rate? Tom good morning.
I would say that our comp strategy now is fine tuning and working the edges both in middle market and also in small.
I did comment that we are still re-underwriting and working aggressively on the pricing front with auto and that’s a comment again both across middle and small commercial as well.
The property and liability and our specialty books all have different strategies and I would suggest to you that our pricing mean is probably not as aggressive there as we are approaching the marketplace in auto.
So somewhere in the mid single digits three to six range probably for the other lines.
Okay thanks.
And just shifting gears to Beth or Chris.
so if I look at the initial 2014 and 2015 capital plan was split 80% buybacks and 20% debt reduction.
and then if I look at the Japan sale got a bit more conservatives led 60% buybacks 40% debt reduction.
So my question is as we think about how would Hartford capital go down in the future how should we think about that split? So Tom it’s Beth.
I’ll take that.
So what we’ve said in the past is that any capital management actions that we would take in the future will continue to be balanced.
We’re very mindful looking at what our leverage and coverage ratios are and as we’ve said our goal is overtime to be in the low 20s and so any actions we take we’ll continue to the balance that.
So it’s not as I can say it’s an exact percentage.
It’ll really be based on the amount and looking at overall of those factors as we think about the balance sheet going forward.
So Beth as a follow-up then.
Since you’re still above low 20s right now it’s fair to say that if you had extraordinary capital return actions on Talcott you probably lean more towards the conservative end of it until you hit the low 20s threshold?  So the low 20s is a target we haven’t set necessary a time table for working to when we want to achieve that we’ll just continue to be balance.
So what I would say to you is I’d expect there to be a continuation of both but not necessarily that we’re trying to be overly conservative.
And then so just one last one if I could sneak it in from a tactical standpoint why bother with tendering for debt? Why not just sit on the cash earn some yield and pay it off as you go? I guess you have some fairly big maturities in 2017.
I don’t know if that’s too long to wait or what the view of tendering versus sitting on the cash and waiting to pay maturities.
So again our view has been that we do want to reduce the leverage on the balance sheet.
When we look at the cost of a tender or call we obviously take that into consideration to some extent what you pay in the PB calculation on that kind of takes into consideration about that you won’t be paying that interest in the future.
So for us it’s really a way to get us to our targets.
And we’ll continue to look for the best way to execute that at the best price.
Okay thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Glasspiegel with Janney Capital.
Your line is open.
Good morning Hartford.
A question on hedging costs which I don’t think you breakout anymore with Japan outage come down and clearly your assets are coming down against the dollar is up and interest rates are down.
Any guidance just sort of the rough run rate of hedging costs that are below the line?  So Bob this is Beth.
So as it relates to our U.S.
VA book in the way that we thought about the spend for both the WB program and the macro program we’ve really haven’t changed those targets.
I would say the macro program has probably cost us a little bit less.
We used to talk about it in $5 million range a couple – spending a little less than that now but we really haven’t changed our views on hedging.
But you can see in our results because we still do breakout the VA hedging results that they were very modest for the quarter which is what we’d expect going forward with Japan no longer in our result.
I’m sorry.
The $75 million refers to what?  What we refer to is the macro hedge program.
Okay.
That’s continuing or that’s not continuing? So we are continuing the macro hedge program.
It’s just that the cost of that program has come down a bit given market conditions.
And that’s below the line or is that in core earnings? All of the hedging costs are below the line.
Okay.
Thank you.
There are no further questions in queue at this time.
I’d turn the conference back over to our presenters.
Thank you Tiffany and thank you all for joining us today and your interest in The Hartford.
Certainly if you have any follow-up questions about the quarter or other items please contact either Sean or myself by phone or e-mail and we’ll get back to you as quickly as we can today.
Thank you and have a great day.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Tiffany and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Hartford’s Fourth Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Sabra Purtill Head of Investor Relations.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you Tiffany.
Good morning everyone.
And welcome to The Hartford’s full year 2014 financial results and 2015 outlook webcast and conference call.
Our news release the Investor Financial Supplement and the fourth quarter Financial Results Presentation which includes our 2015 outlook were all filed yesterday afternoon and are available on our website.
At about 8:30 this morning we posted the slides for today’s webcast which are also available on the Investor Relations section of the website and which will also accompany the webcast today.
Our speakers today include Chris Swift CEO of The Hartford; Doug Elliot President; and Beth Bombara CFO.
Following their prepared remarks we will have about 30 minutes for Q&amp;A.
As described on page two of the presentation today’s call includes forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results could be materially different.
We do not assume any obligation to update forward-looking statements and investors should consider the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from these statements.
A detailed description of those risks and uncertainties can be found in our SEC filings which are also available on our website.
Our presentation today also includes several non-GAAP financial measures.
Explanations and reconciliations of these measures to the comparable GAAP measure are included in our SEC filings as well as in the earnings release and financial supplement.
I’ll now turn the call over to Chris.
Thank you Sabra.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
2014 was an outstanding year for The Hartford.
We continued the execution of our strategy and created value for shareholders.
We accelerated the transformation of the company by expanding profit margins and increasing ROEs and P&amp;C and Group Benefits and Mutual Funds.
Our selling the Japan Annuity business and reducing risk in Talcott returning over $2 billion of capital to The Hartford shareholder and executing a seamless leadership transition.
I want to thank Liam the Board the management team and all our employees for contributing to a great year.
Last night we reported outstanding fourth quarter and full year 2014 results.
Full year core earnings increased 9% to $1.55 billion.
On a fully diluted per share basis core earnings grew 16% reflecting profitable growth and effective capital management.
The core ROE increased to 8.4% in 2014 a full 1 point increase over prior year.
Core earnings growth was driven by margin expansion in P&amp;C Group Benefits and Mutual Funds and solid topline growth in P&amp;C.
We achieved an almost 3-point year-over-year improvement in underlying combined ratio in P&amp;C.
The Hartford’s pricing discipline and investments in new products and capabilities are producing strong results.
Strong profitability recovery continued in Group Benefits with the core earnings margin rising almost a point in 2014 to 5.2%.
I'm very pleased with how our businesses are balancing margins and topline growth in this market environment.
The Japan sale was another critical accomplishment in 2014.
The transaction significantly improved the company's risk profile and enabled us to increase our capital management program.
During the year we return more than $2 billion of capital to shareholders in the form of equity repurchases and dividends.
We also reduce holding company debt by $200 million.
Before we move into 2015’s outlook I want to touch upon an important event that we originally expected in 2014 the Passage of TRIA.
The TRIA legislation has been and continues to be critically important to policyholders that rely on the availability of terrorism insurance.
We appreciate the efforts of Congress and the administration to enable its passage.
Now let’s turn to 2015.
We expect to generate core earnings between $1.55 billion and $1.65 billion.
As Beth will cover in more detail adjusting for 2014’s low catastrophe losses strong limited partnership returns and prior year development earnings growth from P&amp;C Group Benefits and Mutual Funds is expected to more than offset the anticipated decline in Talcott earnings.
As Doug will detail we are striving to expand our margins in 2015 recognizing the pricing and interest rate environment has become more challenging.
In P&amp;C we are optimistic that targeted pricing actions and enhanced capabilities will allow us to drive modest improvements in the underlying combined ratio.
In Group Benefits the core margin is expected to be relatively stable.
We foresee continued improvement in disability loss trends but expect that to be offset by a reversion to more typical life mortality.
We expect the key story in Group Benefits to be a topline growth recovery.
Recent sales activity suggest The Hartford strength in claim handling and service are making a difference with customers.
We are committed to improving The Hartford’s ROE and growing book value per share to drive top quartile shareholder returns.
As I discussed last quarter we will focus our activities in four major areas expanding product and underwriting capabilities increasing distribution effectiveness improving the customer experience and operating efficiency and effectively managing capital including the ongoing runoff of Talcott.
We continue to add new product and underwriting capabilities to meet the needs of a broader range of policyholders.
In 2015 we intend to introduce new industry verticals in middle market and to strengthen our underwriting presence in geographies where we have been underrepresented.
In Group Benefits we have expanded our voluntary product suite to include disability flex critical illness and accident coverages.
These products and underwriting initiatives strengthen our relationship with brokers and agents by helping them better serve their clients.
In addition we seek to extend our distribution in 2015.
The micro segment of small commercial is best served by a multi-channel distribution strategy.
We are aggressively moving in that direction with an AARP endorsed offering and other initiatives that will bring increased complicity and speed to small business owners and our distribution partners.
We are also investing in technologies that will improve the customer experience and create operating efficiencies.
The early feedback from the rollout of our new P&amp;C claim systems has been very positive.
The system promises to improve claims handling efficiency and consistency as well as the entire claims experience for the policyholder and the agent.
Finally effective capital management will continue to be -- will be continued to be critical in meeting the company’s strategic goals.
We plan to take $1.5 billion in dividends from the Talcott legal entities by early 2016 $500 million of which was completed in January as we begin to appropriately reduce the amount of excess capital in Talcott to reflect its runoff status.
This excess capital will provide the company with significant financial flexibility for future capital actions and investments in new capabilities.
As I reflect on the past 12 months it is clear that this has been a pivotal year for The Hartford with the sale of Japan and the significant improvements in P&amp;C and Group Benefits the company strategic transformation and restructuring is essentially complete.
The Hartford enters 2015 as a strong competitor in each of our markets.
We have supplemented existing strengths in underwriting and claims with enhanced capabilities and product distribution and service.
The company is positioned to create shareholder value going forward on a consistent and sustainable basis.
Now I'll turn the call over to Doug.
Thank you Chris and good morning.
Today I’ll cover the 2014 highlights for Commercial Lines Personal Lines and Group Benefits and then share some thoughts for 2015.
First let me quickly remind you that I'll be discussing our results under the new Commercial Lines business alignment we disclose several weeks ago.
2014 was another year of strong financial performance across the Board.
Our results were achieved through sound risk selection decisions outstanding execution across our product and field organizations and our relentless focus on getting right all the small things that go into a market-leading franchise.
Before I cover our results I want to touch on a few broad themes affecting our businesses both in 2014 and as we look forward to 2015.
First while 2014 accident year catastrophes and P&amp;C were slightly higher than 2013 losses were below our expectations for second year.
We will take the good news but we won't plan for it to continue.
We still follow our rigorous process to manager cat exposures over the long-term.
Second is net investment income which trended down for the year and recent movement in treasury yields suggest that we aren’t likely to see reversal anytime soon this demand that we stay vigilant on our pricing and actively monitor competitive forces in 2015.
Beth will have some additional perspective on our investment portfolio in her comments.
Turning to our financial results in Commercial Lines we delivered $996 million of core earnings for the full year on an all -- all in combined ratio of 93.4.
This was an earnings increase of $169 million from 2013 largely driven by 4.7 points of improvement in the combined ratio.
The underlying combined ratio excluding catastrophes and prior year development was 91.5 for the year representing 3.6 points of fundamental margin improvement.
On the topline our written premium of $6.4 billion was up 3% from 2013.
Excluding the written premium declines in our programs business due to non-renewal actions taken in 2013 growth was 5%.
New business momentum was building in the back half of 2013 particularly in small commercial and middle market and that momentum carried into our 2014 results.
On balance we are extremely pleased with our competitive positioning in the market and our prospects for profitable growth.
Let me offer some details on that by looking at each of our commercial business units starting with small commercial.
Our Small Commercial business continues to excel with its unique skills and product distribution and service.
Our focus on customers and distributors has propelled us for a very strong market position.
Written premium for the year grew 5% aided by strong retentions.
And the underlying combined ratio of 87% was 2.5 points better than 2013.
New business was up 7% for the full year.
We finished 2014 with three consecutive quarters of double-digit new business growth driven by the full implementation of our coding application icon and other agency engagement initiatives.
We continue to make investments in this business to drive competitive advantage.
We are adding new online features for services and we launched the partnership with AARP to extend our small business services to their members.
Moving to Middle-Market I’m pleased with our progress.
The underlying combined ratio of 94.5% for the full year improved 4.5 points much of this resulting from margin improvement and workers’ compensation the combination of years of underwriting and pricing actions.
Written premium growth was 1% but this now includes our programs business which was still shedding business in 2013 and 2014.
Excluding programs middle-market written premium growth was 4% largely driven by our strategy to expand non-workers’ compensation line and deliver a more balanced book of business.
Retentions were solid throughout the year and new business production of $458 million was up for the second year much of our success in middle-market links directly to improved performance in the field.
We have upped our game in underwriting process effectiveness and agency engagement with new tools better data and deeper analytics on the frontline.
We are strengthening our risk capabilities to be a top partner for our distributors and customers effectively underwriting and servicing an expanded array of new accounts.
Within Specialty Commercial results held steady with an underlying combined ratio of 100.2% for the full year up slightly from 99.6 in 2013.
National accounts posted another solid year with strong performance on both the top and bottom line.
New business tapered off from 2013 which was a particularly active year.
Nonetheless written premiums were up 11% and account retention was in the low 90s.
Our financial products business also had a strong year.
The team has successfully repositioned this business and I'm confident that by more closely aligning with our middle-market operation we can build a competitive advantage across Commercial Lines.
Shifting over to Personal Lines we delivered $210 million in core earnings up 2% from prior year.
Adjusting for Catalyst360 which we sold in 2013 core earnings actually grew 12%.
The all-in combined ratio was 95.5% for the full year improving 1.4 points versus 2013.
Excluding catastrophes and prior-year development the underlying combined ratio was 90.6 improving 1.7 points from last year.
The improvement was mainly driven by lower marketing and technology related expenses.
Written premium grew 4% for the year with continued strong performance from our AARP through agents offering.
AARP Direct also posted modest growth from favorable retention and written pricing actions.
During 2014 we rolled out our new auto product Open Road in 32 states increasing our pricing flexibility and improving our responsiveness to market trends.
We also achieved greater efficiency in our AARP Direct acquisition process improving our cost per conversion by 10%.
Now let me pivot to Group Benefits.
Core earnings for 2014 increased to $180 million up 14% from 2013.
That results in core earnings margin of 5.2%.
We continue to see profit improvement driven by favorable Group Life and disability results.
Excluding the effects from terminating and association financial institutions’ marketing arrangement the 2014 group life loss ratio improved 3.4 points due to continued pricing discipline and favorable mortality.
Disability trends also remained favorable compared to prior year with the loss ratio improving 0.5 point.
Long-term disability incident rates improved but at a slowing pace versus prior year.
And claim recovery rates continued to be strong.
Looking at the topline fully insured ongoing premium excluding association financial institutions declined 2% for the full year.
Overall book persistency on our employer group block of business came in at 89% for the year and we've been very pleased with our renewal pricing adequacy.
Fully insured ongoing sales excluding association financial institution was $326 million for the year down 12%.
However as we sit here today with considerable insight on the first quarter of 2015 activity we are seeing a strong rebound in new sales.
We are encouraged that our recent investments are enabling us to compete more effectively and close more cases.
So as we wrap up 2014 we are pleased with our continued financial progress by the growing market strength of each business.
Across our enterprise we are seeing strong and still improving levels of employee engagement and a deep commitment to achieving even greater levels of success as we look to the future.
This is what defines The Hartford and why our customers and distribution partners trust us with their most important insurance needs.
Before I turn things over to Beth let me offer a few comments on 2015.
We continue to invest heavily in our capabilities as an enterprise focused on areas of competitive advantage for each business.
We've been on this journey for several years making extensive progress in product development business metrics and easy-to-use technology applications for distributors customers and employees alike.
A great example is our new P&amp;C claims management platform that will be completely rolled out by end of this year.
It is already delivering value through improved claim rep performance better customer experience and process efficiency.
And the data analytics supported through the platform will be a source of innovation for years to come.
I'm also very encouraged by the initiatives for each of our business units.
We are having a strong run in small commercial and we have even greater aspirations.
Our formula based on customer value and innovation continue to separate us from the pack.
This year we will roll out enhancements to spectrum our business owner’s package policy introduce new online services and investing capabilities to better support distribution partners as they pursue new marketing strategies and greater efficiencies for these small accounts.
Our technology and service operations make us a go-to carrier and our investments will keep us on the leading edge of this market.
In Middle-Market we have a number of new initiatives in play to compete more broadly in the market.
First we are introducing a new underwriting cockpit that improves speed support and data-driven insights for our team of professionals.
Underwriters will be better equipped than ever to smartly compete for business.
Second we will begin deploying additional underwriting resources in targeted regions where we see new business upside.
Working closely with our agents and brokers is critical to success and this demands local presence.
And the third example of our focus is the build out of additional risk management professionals specifically in engineering and loss control.
We see this skill set is crucial for enabling our progress in new market sectors.
These types of investments give us the opportunity to grow our middle-market business not by competing solely on price but by bringing our strong value proposition to a larger share of the marketplace.
Within Specialty Commercial our major initiative will be leveraging the expertise of our financial products business.
We now have a line the strategy and management of financial products more closely with our Small Commercial and Middle-Market businesses.
In addition we continue to compete in the public D&amp;O market.
These teams will partner on product development and automation to create differentiated offering across commercial lines.
We expect our overall commercial lines margin to remain generally stable with an underlying combined ratio between $89.5 million and $91.5 million.
We will continue to seek improvement from a few pockets of lagging results such as commercial auto where we’ll be aggressive with price increases and underwriting actions.
In other well-performing lines we will manage our pricing strategy to address long-term loss cost trends in individual account performance.
We believe that our leadership and small commercial investments in Middle-Market provide the opportunity for profitable growth as we better deploy the capabilities we’ve developed.
In personal lines we will bring even greater focus to our AARP direct business with new product analytics and improved marketing test and learn capabilities we’re systematically improving response and conversion.
We’re also continuing to refine our AARP through agent’s offering resulting in somewhat slower topline growth.
We continue to be very excited about the quality of this business and believe that we can develop deeper partnerships with high-quality agents appointed for this program.
Excluding catastrophes and prior year development we expect the underlying combined ratio to be between 89% and 91% a modest improvement in margins as we continue to focus on rate adequacy.
In Group Benefits we are very pleased to be positioned for topline growth with our book of business performing well.
Renewal rates on business in the first quarter 2015 are very strong as is new sales activity.
New sales with 1/1/15 effective date are up over 60% versus the year ago.
And our win backs cases the last several years ago have now decided to come back to us continue to be impressive and especially gratifying.
Our service in claim capabilities are the reason.
We truly have a differentiated experience and we’re continuing to build on those capabilities.
First as we expand on the voluntary market we’re making additional investments in our products and capabilities to provide an even better experience in an increasingly consumer-driven market.
Second we’re investing in an enhanced producer analytics and increased fuel resources aligned with targeted growth markets.
We expect our Group Benefit’s core earnings margin to be relatively stable between 5 and 5.5 with underwriting performance helping to offset declines in investment income.
Overall across all of our businesses we’re focused on computing in an aggressive and disciplined manner.
We believe that we have an opportunity to grow our business through smart product expansion and deeper local partnerships with our distributors.
We have great scales in talents that can be deployed more widely without pushing beyond the boundaries of sound underwriting and risk selection.
In summary we’re very pleased with our progress in 2014 and excited to extend our reach in 2015.
Let me now turn the call over to Beth.
Thank you Doug.
I’m going to briefly cover the other businesses in key 2015 business metrics before turning to the capital outlook for Talcott and the holding company.
Mutual Funds core earnings rose 17% in 2014 primarily due to an increase in fees from higher average assets under management excluding Talcott related funds.
As noted on slide 19 long-term fund performance remains solid with 64% of Mutual Funds outperforming their peers over the last five years.
For the year Mutual Fund sales were stable at $15.2 billion as a growth in equity fund sales was offset by reduced fixed income sale.
During the year we exited certain types of funds and transferred some funds to our investment operations which resulted in negative Mutual Fund net flow of $1.4 billion.
Adjusted for these items net flows were about breakeven for the year.
In 2015 we expect modest growth in core earnings as growth in Mutual Funds AUM will be partially offset by the continued runoff of funds included in Talcott’s VA product.
Talcott’s core earnings summarized on slide 20 rose 5% for the year much better than originally expected due to higher limited partnership income and lower contract holder initiative cost.
Contract counts continue to decline down year-over-year by 13% for variable annuities and 18% for fixed annuities.
There has only been a modest decline in institutional covered life as the majority of the block consists of longer duration structured settlements and pension-related terminal funding liability.
In 2015 we expect Talcott’s core earnings to decline about 15% to 20% to a range of $340 million to $370 million.
Almost half of this decline is due to lower projected limited partnership returns which were 10% in 2014 versus 6% projected in 2015.
Excluding the excess 2014 return in limited partnership income core earnings are projected to be down around 10% in 2015 consistent with the runoff of the annuity blocks somewhat offset by lower expenses.
Turning to the corporate segment on slide 21 2014 core losses were about flat to the prior year.
The 2015 core loss outlook of $235 million to $245 million is slightly better than 2014 due to lower interest expense from plan debt repayments in 2015.
During 2015 we expect to spend up to $1 billion for debt management which will help us move towards our long-term target of debt-to-total cap in the low 20s.
Rating agency adjusted debt-to-total cap was 28.4% at December 31 2014 or 26% pro formas for the projected 2015 repayments.
Turning to investments on slide 22.
We remain pleased with the credit performance of our portfolio with only $59 million of impairments in 2014 compared with $73 million in 2013.
Investment yields however remained a challenge due to market conditions.
Our portfolio yields have held up reasonably well in the low-interest rate environment averaging 4.1% this year excluding limited partnership or down about 10 basis points.
Our 2015 outlook which is based on market yield curve projects a modest decline in the portfolio yield due to lower reinvestment rate.
Our outlook for annualized P&amp;C only pretax portfolio yield is 3.9% including limited partnership.
Turning to our capital management plan.
Through January 30 2015 we have repurchased approximately $1.9 billion totaling 52 million shares for an average purchase price of $36.46 under the $2.775 billion share repurchase program and we paid $200 million of debt maturities on the $1.2 billion debt management program.
Our core earnings outlook includes the impact of the completion of both programs in 2015 although the precise number of repurchased shares will depend on market prices.
To summarize as detailed on slide 24 core earnings in 2014 rose 9% to $1.5 billion which was the high end of the 2014 outlook.
Core earnings per diluted share rose 16% to $3.36 due to the increase in core earnings and the impact of the capital management program.
The core ROE rose to 8.4%.
Book value per diluted share excluding AOCI at December 31 2014 rose 4% to $40.71 from year end 2013 largely due to the capital management program.
Shareholders’ equity excluding AOCI declined 6% to $17.8 billion as the contribution of net income was more than offset by share repurchases and dividends.
Our consolidated 2015 outlook which you can see on slide 25 is for core earnings of $1.55 billion to $1.65 billion which at the midpoint is 7% above 2014 results once you exclude favorable items in 2014 such as CATs and limited partnership returns both better than outlook as well as unfavorable prior accident year development.
On a per share basis including an estimate of the impact of share repurchases during 2015 our earnings per diluted share would be approximately $3.65 to $3.85.
Slide 25 lists several of the key business metrics for 2015 most of which we have already covered.
Based on our 2015 outlook we estimate an increase in core ROE to about 8.7% to 9.2% compared with 8.4% in 2014.
As you know one of our principal financial goals is to increase our ROE.
We are frequently asked about our target ROE and how much we can improve ROE each year.
As you can see we have made a lot of progress over the last few years and we expect an additional 30 to 80 basis points of improvement in 2015.
Our goal is to generate an ROE above our cost of equity capital which based on the current data and market factors is about 10.6% today.
As you can see on slide 26 our P&amp;C Group Benefits and Mutual Funds ROEs have been improving nicely.
Note that the business ROEs on the slide are unlevered so we do not include any debt allocation or interest expense.
The unlevered P&amp;C Group Benefits and Mutual Funds ROE has risen from 10.6% in 2013 to 11.2% in 2014 and we project additional improvement in 2015.
These levels exceed our current cost of capital of 8.4% including debt indicating that we are creating shareholder value in those businesses.
The Talcott ROE however is much lower and reduces our consolidated ROE to below our cost of capital.
However as you can see on this slide our one-year data has declined from almost 2 at the beginning of 2013 to about 1.25 today.
The reduction in the size and risk of Talcott is the principal reason that the data has declined and is an important contributor to our progress in reducing our cost of capital.
Nevertheless our data remains higher than other P&amp;C companies which range from 0.6 to 1.15.
We have made a great deal of progress in driving ROE growth and reducing our cost of capital.
We're optimistic about continuing to make progress with the goal of generating ROEs above our cost of capital.
Now I would like to turn to our capital outlook and specifically our views of excess capital in Talcott.
As we have stated we have been evaluating the appropriate capitalization for Talcott taking into consideration its improved risk profile with the sale of Japan.
Our previous standard was to maintain a minimum of at least 325% RBC in a stress scenario.
We have now updated that to a 200% minimum RBC in a stress scenario.
Of course in more favorable markets the actual RBC levels will be much higher.
Slide 27 displays the allocation of Talcott’s $5.6 billion of statutory surplus at December 2014.
As you can see $1.2 billion is allocated to VA $2.2 billion is allocated to institutional and fixed annuities and $700 million to other which includes reinsurance credit exposure on divested businesses in our COLI/BOLI book.
That leaves $1.5 million of surplus that we consider today to be accessed in the stress scenario in which we intend to take out of Talcott in stages.
Last week the first dividend of $500 million was paid to the holding company.
We expect an additional $500 million in the second half of 2015 and the remaining $500 million in early 2016.
Slide 28 shows the capital margin in Talcott under base stress and favorable scenarios the detail of which are in the appendix.
All of these scenarios assume we take the $1.5 billion in dividend by early 2016.
Assuming the stress scenario occurred in 2015 we estimate remaining capital margin at the end of 2016 of about $400 million which roughly equates to 240% RBC comfortably above the 200% level.
Slide 29 provides a reconciliation of capital margins in the different scenarios.
The VA hedging program helps protect surplus in down markets.
In fact the significant portion of the approximately net $800 million negative impact from VA in the stress scenario results from the reduction of fee income that would result from lower asset levels.
Talcott’s major source of capital margin impact in the stress scenario comes from institutional and fixed annuities due to investment related impacts and the impact of interest rates.
Finally before turning to your questions I wanted to summarize our holding company cash flow for 2014 and our outlook for 2015.
During 2014 the holding company had about $2.9 billion in positive cash flow including the Japan sales proceeds.
During 2015 we expect dividends of about $1.9 billion.
I would note that our projection for P&amp;C dividend is lower in 2015.
Having accelerated dividends in 2014 we do not have ordinary P&amp;C dividend capacity until the third quarter of 2015.
During 2015 we expect to use approximately $2.6 billion for holding company obligations and the capital management plan resulting in net holding company cash and short-term investments of approximately $1.8 billion at year-end 2015.
This is a very strong base that positions us to deploy capital accretively for shareholders in 2016 and beyond.
2014 was an outstanding year for The Hartford with significant improvement in margins in P&amp;C and Group Benefits continued net flow improvement in Mutual Funds and a substantial reduction in risk at Talcott.
We are focused on growing core earnings in 2015 offsetting the decline in Talcott earnings with growth in the other businesses.
In addition Talcott is generating excess capital allowing us to deploy capital in more accretive ways to drive ROE improvement.
We look forward to updating you on our progress in 2015 to grow both ROE and book value per share to drive shareholder value creation.
I will now turn the call over to Sabra so we can begin the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Beth.
We have about 30 minutes for Q&amp;A.
And as usual we would appreciate it if people could limit themselves to one question and a follow-up and then requeue so that others have opportunity to ask the question in the time we have available.
Tiffany could you please give the Q&amp;A instructions [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brian Meredith with UBS.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
A couple questions here.
First for Doug just curious with the underlying combined ratio improvement both in personal and commercial how much of that is going to come from expense initiatives versus loss ratios still improving here given where rates are in line with loss trend? Let met tackle the Personal Lines first and then we will come back to Commercial.
We still have very consistent approach in Personal Lines and we will be addressing loss trends through pricing in a very similar manner as we are in 2014.
So I look at the strategy in 2015 with Personal Lines is very consistent with 2014.
On the Commercial Lines side obviously an evolving environment and as we talked to you on this call and shared our numbers last night you know that the fourth quarter was down a little bit on the pricing side versus third quarter.
So we’re being thoughtful about how 2015 will play out.
We’ve got a number of strategies in different places.
But much of our improvement is coming number one from the fact that our written prices in 2014 will earn their way into 2015.
And I would say that much of the expense work we’re doing is being invested back inside the platform.
So most of the work and most of what you see inside the combined ratio will be pricing and underwriting driven.
Okay.
And then the second question just curious on capital management guidance here and you make the comment the additional $500 million from Talcott you’re expecting to look to use that for debt paid.
I’m just curious why that decision particularly given that debt capital is incredibly inexpensive right now? Why would you kind of make the decision to kind of continue to pay down your debt? Hey Brian.
It’s Chris.
I’ll ask Beth comment too but I think what we said along is that this two-year plan is the balanced plan of equity and debt.
If you look closely at our language I mean we have allocated up to billion dollars of debt prepayment this year half of that is just maturing debt and the other half is what I’ll call optionality to really look at our debts that continue to drive down.
Basically our debt to cap ratio is as about described.
Beth would you add anything else? Yeah.
I just had a couple things.
First of all I think you referred to the $500 million dividend from Talcott being the same thing as the $500 million of debt reduction and they're not related so I would separate the two.
As Chris said we announced our debt management plan last year and you may recall that in the fourth quarter we had anticipated using up to the $500 million to reduce debt and we decided to take a pause because interest rates had decreased at that time and they’re still low.
And so we’ll continue over the course of '15 to look at opportunistically what makes sense for us to use that $500 million in a way that we think is in the most benefit to our shareholders.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Randy Binner with FBR.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning.
Thanks.
I wanted to touch on -- I’m trying to understand the pace of the runoff and particularly through the trend that we’re seeing in VA surrenders.
So that came in I think at 11% in the fourth quarter and trended down throughout the year but the contract count for VA was down about 13% for the year.
And so just trying to think about what’s the right way for us to think of how these liabilities runoff is it more that full year result? Or is it something that could trend down as a single-digit as we look to 2015? Thanks Randy.
It’s Beth.
So a couple things I would say on that.
As you know we did have some initiatives in 2014 which impacted that VA count coming down which is why you see the 13%.
And as you point out as we went into the fourth quarter we did see a reduction.
And our estimate for 10% for next year we feel very good about when we look at sort of historical trends and the fact that we don't have a plan in a significant initiative in '15 at this point.
So as the year progresses if we determine that there is something that we would do we’d obviously update you.
But we think right now from all that we can see in our analysis that a 10% is as a good place for us to plan for '15.
Okay.
And then this 10% I know initiatives and then on the fixed and institutional blocks is there any anything initiative-wise or transaction-wise that would make sense there? It seems like maybe the window for transferring those kinds of risks to some institutions is not as open as it was in last couple of years.
Any color you can provide on that side? Yeah.
So I think about it in two pieces that we have our fixed annuity block.
And again the surrender rate or contract decreases that we highlighted for the year were impacted by some of the initiatives that we had in that block and we’ll continue to look to see if that makes sense to do in the future.
As it relates to the institutional block as we discussed before given where rates are at this time we don't really see a transaction for that book to really be economical for us since we’d be basically locking into this very low level.
If the interest rate environment changes as we said in the past we’ll of course look to see if there's something more economical that we could do at that book.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Your line is open.
Good morning everybody.
A couple of quick questions for you.
So if I think about -- and Beth I’m glad that you sort of commented on the $500 million from Talcott being above what was already embedded in your two-year capital management plan.
So if I could get it the question maybe a little bit differently I think you're targeting in the holding company cash levels by the end of 2015 at around $1.8 billion.
I guess my question is what’s your target longer-term in terms of how much cash you want to keep at the parent on an ongoing basis? Sure.
Thanks.
So when we look at the cash at the holding company we typically start with looking at what our annual expenditure is for covering holding company obligations so interest in shareholder dividends which again you can see on our slide is about $600 million for '15.
So we typically talk about a target in sort of the 1.5 times range for that and then of course we always want to have I think a little bit of cushion but that’s kind of how we look at that.
Okay.
So it's fair to say you've got a pretty sizable cushion versus that level? Yeah.
As I said in my comment I think ending at $1.8 billion is a very strong position.
Again that doesn't include the $500 million that we anticipate to take out of Talcott in 2016.
Yeah.
That positions us very well as we head into '16.
Okay.
And then just a bigger picture question given where rates are and you guys I think are obviously taking that into account in some of your outlook here investment income related and other.
But with all the mix shift in the company particularly the reduction in the risk and size of Talcott? Can you give us an update on how we should think about the longer-term earnings pressure and maybe balance sheet risk from a sustain sort of 2% or sub 2% tenure environment? Yeah.
So if you think about the projections that we have for year and maybe what I’ll do is I’ll just talk more about our P&amp;C book.
If we look at our outlook right now for ’15 and if rates sort of remained at current levels and didn't follow the forward curve.
For ‘15 we probably see a very modest impact kind of in the $7 million to $10 million range.
Obviously if they stayed there longer and you go into ’16 you start to see a compounding effect of that.
Yeah.
I think the counterpoint to that though is what would happen on P&amp;C pricing.
So there is obviously the NII impact but then there is also just what does that mean for the broader environment if we were to remain in a low interest rate environment.
But that kind of gives you a sense for the P&amp;C portfolio.
And then related to Talcott or Group maybe if anything we should be thinking about I mean discount rate on the Group disability side or spread pressures within Talcott? Yeah.
So again if I look at that same measure sort of putting in all in HIG which would include the Group and Talcott piece.
And again if rates remain flat from kind of where they are now that $7 million to $10 million impact rises to $16 million-ish.
So again there is obviously some impact on that.
I don't have a breakout between Talcott and Group.
And obviously Group I would say there again -- there is a pricing dynamic that would also have to be taken into consideration.
Okay.
That’s really… John its Chris.
The only… Yeah.
Just to offer from a Group Benefits side I mean we’ve been discounting reserves for ’14 and we plan in ’15 in the 3.5% range.
Okay.
So I think our liability structures are already reflecting that lower interest rate environment.
Really helpful.
So we are looking at maybe 1% earnings pressure from sustained low rates at least for one year.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Thank you.
Just I guess more of a business question.
I was interested to hear that you are -- through the AARP relationship going to be selling small commercial business? I am wondering do you have any sense of what percentage of the Hart members own small businesses how bigger population are we talking about here? Jay good morning its Doug.
We are aware that there are more than a million members that have small businesses.
These -- I would characterize them largely as micro small businesses Jay employees less than five.
But there is a sizeable component.
I think it will take us time to work at that but we are excited about the opportunity and look forward to partnering with AARP and broader ways going forward.
That’s great.
My other questions are answered.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
First I just want to clarify on a previous statement from Beth that $500 million of flexibility to repurchase additional debt? Did you say that could also go into share buybacks? No.
I did not say that what I said was that we had year marked $500 million and that we would look at through the course of ’15 when the appropriate time is for us to use that for our debt management.
Okay.
The other point I wanted to come back to is I believe after second quarter there was some outlook with regard to ROE potentials and previously it was low 9% in 2015 and I believe 30 to 50 basis point expansion in both 2016 and ’17? So that prior guidance would have gotten you right around 10% in 2016 is that still a reasonable expectation? Jay it’s Chris I’ll ask Beth also to comment.
I think some of those comments you are attributing to me.
So I still see and buy them but I would say that I think the headwinds were just a little bit more than six seven months ago honestly low rates P&amp;C pricing cycles gotten a little more challenging as Doug and I’ve been saying.
So it's not beyond the realm of possibility but it is a higher degree of difficulty as we sit here today.
And if you really think about it I -- once we get beyond ’15 which again we -- I think given fairly tight guidance as far as ROE.
I think then we are in that 20 to 40 basis point annual improvement from there.
So Beth would you add any other color? No.
I think you said it very well.
As we talked about before we had -- we did -- we do expect to see in ‘15 a larger increase than that 20 to 40 that Chris just mentioned because of the capital management actions that are working in from the sale of Japan but I think that’s our reasonable expectation.
Beyond 2015 would you expect the capital management mix to be more weighted towards buybacks as opposed to evenly split in ‘15 between share repurchase and debt pay down? Jay if you give us a little time we’ll talk about that in due course.
But right now we are focused on obviously executing the plan here in ’15 and when we get to really developing the ‘16 plan we’ll give you views.
But we've always said balanced so balance could mean within a range.
But also keep in mind sort of debt-to-equity ratios that we want to keep them balanced too.
Makes sense.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Erik Bass with Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Excuse me.
And thank you for providing the updated Talcott stat capital breakdown I guess in addition to the stat capital do you believe there's a level of redundant reserves at Talcott that could be freed overtime? Yeah.
So obviously there are reserves that we hold on especially in our institutional and fixed book for things that impact interest rates.
And so when you look at our margins in favorable scenarios and baselines you could expect to see some decline there but nothing that we are expecting sort of in any significant manner in the near term.
Okay.
And could you provide an update on the present value of the expected earnings from Talcott which I’d think you’d given probably most recently at the end of last year? I think you are talking about our MCV analysis yes.
So again where we stand today with the VA book we would estimate that the MCV is still very positive and about 1.1 billion at the end of December.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Thomas Gallagher with Crédit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Just -- Beth just a few points of clarification.
So the new news we are getting here today on the whole capital management plan is the extra funds coming out of Talcott.
And just remind me though the ‘14 and ‘15 estimates for buybacks and dividend -- and debt repayment that hasn't changed at all right.
Like so the ‘14 ‘15 total capital return plan is it same as it was but you're taking more money out of Talcott.
And so my question really is if I'm right on that what are those funds being used for is it just more money sitting at the holding company? Tom it’s Chris let me start and then Beth could share.
I think you got the fact pattern right.
So the only new news here is the -- we’ve defined the amount of excess capital in Talcott at the end of 2014.
And we plan to take that out basically over the next 12 to 14 months.
As we really head into the second half of ‘15 we’ll work on call it what's next related to our capital management program.
But I think what we are trying to convey and hopefully you see it is we will have additional flexibility particularly as the cash comes out of Talcott to think about what is the most accretive use of that capital going forward.
But we’ve really haven't pinpoint it saying exactly what we are going to do.
But that's what we are going to work on and communicate it in the second half of ‘15.
Yeah.
And then the only thing I would just add just to be -- perfectly clear is you are correct we are not making any changes to the plan that we announced in July that we are currently executing on.
Okay that's… And just one last point Tom do you mind -- and just philosophically I just want to be crystal clear that there really hasn't been any change in our philosophy and how we think about excess capital.
You’ve heard us say it before and we reiterated here.
I mean we are going to continue to be balanced with that in equity paydowns and repurchases.
We still think it's a good use of our capital to buy in shares.
We’ll always have an appropriate dividend policy geared towards growing our operating earnings in P&amp;C and Group Benefits.
And then we’ve said repeatedly I mean we are investing in our capabilities and investing for growth and expansion as we go forward really with the eye of creating additional revenue streams that create recurring value for shareholders.
So that’s how philosophically we were approaching our excess capital.
That makes sense to me Christy.
I guess my follow-up is simply -- of the $1.5 billion plan dividends out of Talcott it sounds like you’re describing that as the excess capital that you believe exists in that block.
But then it also generates earnings of I guess roughly $300 million a year.
What about the extra $600 million or so of capital that you should get from retained earnings in that block? Should we also expect that so it would be $2.1 billion all in or is the $1.5 million also contemplate the money that's being earned their? Yeah Tom.
It’s Beth.
I would think about this way.
So again the $1.5 billion we defined by the valuating the actual tax rate surplus at 12/31/14.
And again and showing that we would have adequate resources in a stress.
So that $1.5 billion at Dec.
31 2014 would obviously have taken into consideration any previous earnings that we generated on the book.
But you are right as we think about it going forward to the extent a stress doesn’t happen and each year we generate statutory surplus as we evaluate our statutory position at the end of any given year we could anticipate that there could be upside to that if we generate the earnings.
I would say sitting here today and looking at just a lot of the pluses and the minuses that happen with statutory surplus I would guide you to think about a range of $200 million to $300 million because it does sometimes bounce around a little bit for variety of items.
But again that would be the something we’d evaluate at the end of ‘15 because obviously if a stress doesn’t happen you have one more year of earnings one more year of the book running off and then you’d kind of evaluate it from there.
Okay.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Glasspiegel with Janney Capital.
Your line is open.
Good morning Hartford.
Life analyst I shouldn’t be dominating.
Doug I got a PC question for you.
Commercial auto you said you are raising rates.
That's a source of sort of margin improvement in 2015.
Where is the sort of underwriting base that you’re operating from a net line and how much are your raising rates? Bob good morning.
We’ve been disappointed in our commercial auto performance primarily in the middle market but also in small commercial as well.
This year back half of the year our pricing has been in a mid-single to higher single-digit range and I expect that to continue maybe even strengthen a bit as we move into the early half of 2015 so disappointed.
Feel like we have some very strong initiatives both on the pricing side and also on the underwriting side to address it looking for progress in ’15 for sure.
Okay.
And Beth just a clarification on your answer to John on sensitivity of Talcott to interest rates here.
You’ve talked a little bit about earnings in general terms but how different of a presentation on capital which you’ve been given if the 10-year was 50 basis point higher where it was at the beginning of the year? Yes.
So we -- obviously in the scenarios that we show for a stress we are stressing interest rates in that scenario.
And you can see kind of the impact that we see from capital that comes from that.
So I think that as we evaluated the $1.5 billion of access today I think we appropriately took into consideration additional stress in interest rates.
So -- I’m sorry.
I didn’t quip all the stresses.
The current environment is stressing it or its 50 basis points from here which stress it? So the stress scenario as we outlined in the appendix would have the 10-year at the end of 2016 I believe and like the 1.6 range.
So again that would have been lower in ’15 as you go through ’16.
I don’t know if it was exactly the same sensitivity that you are highlighting but that’s how we look at the stress.
Got you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ian Gutterman with Balyasny.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thank you.
I guess I wanted to clarify a couple things.
First on the P&amp;C dividend if you are setting off ordinary capacity till Q3 what stops you in Q3 from taking a full year's worth of ordinary dividend why does it have to be much less in earnings? Yes.
So the way to think about it is if you look at the dividend over ’14 and ’15 we typically take out about $800 million a year.
And so what we did in ’14 is we just frontloaded on that dividend that we normally would've taken out in ’15.
So over the two years we kind of get back to our normal level.
Okay.
But P&amp;C start excess capital at the end of 2014 right.
So why couldn’t they take a full year of earnings in ’15? So typically the way we managed the P&amp;C balance sheet and making -- ensuring that we are providing enough capital for the P&amp;C business to continue to invest in its operation.
We target annual dividends of $800 million each year.
Right.
And so that’s again how we looked at it.
Okay.
And then just quickly on Talcott sort of the stress scenario.
Am I remembering correctly? In the past I think you’ve talked about the Holdco cushion being for the stress scenario.
Now that Talcott on its own can handle its own stress scenario do we need to think of any Holdco capital being held for a stress or is that really held for something other than a Talcott stress? Yes.
So as we have said going all the way back to April of 2013 we see that the capital within the Talcott entity is sufficient to handle a stress.
So we are not looking to fund any deficit with holding company cash.
And so when we think about the holding company requirements we tend to focus on the actual obligations for interest and dividend.
And then as I said to have some buffer but obviously much less than what would have been needed in the past.
Got it.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Frost with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Can you hear me okay? Yes we can.
Yeah.
We can Scott.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks for taking my call.
Just to talk about the -- thanks for clarification on the debt management program.
This is the same issue announced in mid last year.
So $0.5 billion is potentially available for tenders and over market repurchases that -- just to clarify that's correct right? Yes.
That is correct.
Okay.
Could you tell us how you think about junior sub also the Glen Meadows in terms of attractiveness to your capital structure? Does it factor into considerations in terms of ratings? Also agencies have talked about improvement I think in P&amp;C operations is one catalyst.
Is that all -- is it your sense that they also are -- have already taken into account this plan to capital management that you’ve talked about? Yes.
I will handle the second part first.
So obviously our plan that we have for capital management we share with rating agencies so they're very aware of what our intentions are and expectation for this plan.
As it relates to other resources that we have like Glen Meadows we obviously look at that as additional capital that we would have available to us.
And as we get -- go through ’15 and in ’16 we’ll take a look at what that means for us and how we might use that capital.
Okay.
So just to clarify I mean your capital management plan is it something the agencies would have to see you execute before they would act in your sense? And again with your capital position being the way it is do you need those capital securities really just attractive from a rate perspective and are you sensitive to serve loss on debt extinguishment or is it more of an interest coverage issue that you're working toward? It’s kind of probably a little bit of all of the above of what you’ve asked.
Okay.
First of all it relates to rating agencies.
We have had a record a track record now for a couple years of laying out a plan and executing on that.
We continue to share with them our expectation and all of that is considered as they look at evaluating the ratings of the various entities.
And as it relates to just overall debt management we’re very sensitive to balancing all of those needs.
So we are looking at reducing our debt-to-capital ratios as Chris and I have talked about.
But we’re also very sensitive to looking at interest coverage and want to make sure that we’re making the right trade-off there.
So part of the reason why we held off of a bit on using that $500 million that we've been talking about is we felt the charge that we’d have to take given the current interest rate environment wasn’t a good trade-off.
So we’ll continue to evaluate that as we move forward and as rate change.
Okay.
Thanks.
There are no further questions in queue at this time.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Sabra Purtill.
Thank you Tiffany and we’d like to thank you all for joining us today and your interest in The Hartford.
Please note that Chris and Beth will be at the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Insurance Conference in New York City on February 11th at 8 AM.
We look forward to seeing you there hopefully with no snow storm.
And in the meantime please feel free to contact either Sean or myself by phone or e-mail if you have any follow-up questions on our financial results and outlook.
Thank you and have a good day.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Sean.
I’ll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Hartford's First Quarter 2015 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Head of Investor Relations Sabra Purtill you may begin your conference.
Thank you Sean.
Good morning and welcome everyone to The Hartford's first-quarter 2015 financial results webcast.
Our news release investor financial supplement first-quarter financial results presentation and Form 10-Q were all filed yesterday afternoon and they are available on our website.
Our speakers today include Chris Swift Chairman and CEO of The Hartford; Doug Elliot President; and Beth Bombara CFO.
Following their prepared remarks we will have about 30 minutes for Q&amp;A.
Just a few notes before Chris begins.
Today's call includes forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results could be materially different.
We do not assume any obligation to update forward-looking statements and investors should consider the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from these statements.
A detailed description of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our SEC filings which are available on our website.
Our presentation today also includes several non-GAAP financial measures.
Explanations and reconciliations of these measures to the most comparable GAAP measure are included in our SEC filings as well as in the news release and the financial supplement.
I’ll now turn the call over to Chris.
Thank you Sabra.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining the call.
Last night we reported financial results for the first quarter.
Our results show that we’re off to a good start for the year and that we are managing the increasing challenges in the marketplace.
We continued to execute on our strategy and make progress across all of our businesses.
Compared to the same period last year core earnings per share for the first quarter 2015 rose 11% adjusted for net favorable items in both periods and book value per share excluding AOCI increased 3%.
In addition we delivered a 12 month core earnings ROE of 8.1%.
Our operating businesses performed well despite low interest rates in an increasingly competitive pricing environment.
Let me share a few highlights from the quarter.
In PMC our combined ratio of 91.7 is essentially flat compared to prior year when adjusted for CATs prior-year development and the New York assessments.
This is a good result given the weather conditions and Doug will discuss more about each line of business in a few moments.
In group benefits core earnings margin increased eight tenths of a point to 5.9% with outstanding first quarter sales that increased 67%.
These results reflect our focus on pricing and underwriting as well as superior service and claims handling.
Our mutual fund businesses generated 28% growth in sales and more than $500 million in positive net flows in the quarter.
In addition we continued to successfully manage the runoff of Talcott with a $500 million return of capital during the quarter and year-over-year declines in variable and fixed annuity contract counts.
In addition we are pleased with the upgrades to our ratings from S&amp;P and Moody's which we received last week.
These upgrades represent a notable milestone for us and earn an affirmation of our improved balance sheet operating performance and financial flexibility.
As we look ahead we are committed to expanding our capabilities to support our growth.
This includes making investments in our technology platform where we have a number of significant programs in flight.
Two of these programs are currently being deployed and are having a very positive impact on our distribution relationships and the customer experience.
First is our new P&amp;C claim system which continued its rollout across the country.
Our colleagues continue to comment on their vastly improved user experience and how that translates into improved customer experience.
With enhanced data collection we are improving our ability to assign the right expertise to resolve claimant needs in a timely and supportive manner.
Second is our new consolidated underwriting desktop for middle market.
We have modernized our underwriting process with this application delivering immediate benefits in quote turnaround time and communication with our agents.
Over time this platform is the vehicle by which we will deliver new tools and decision support to all our underwriters which is an exciting step forward.
I’m happy about the rollout of these important new technologies and look forward to updating you on our continued progress in the future.
One of our strengths at The Hartford is our deep pool of talent.
Since our last call we have made some leadership changes that I wanted to share with you.
David Robinson will assume the role of General Counsel when Allan Cresco steps down from the position at the end of May.
David has been with us since 2006 and has a broad range of legal and business experiences including playing a key role in our transformation and we welcome him to the executive leadership team.
I would like to acknowledge and thank Allan for his loyal service to our Company.
Few people have played such an influential role in our Company as Allan who served as General Counsel to three CEO’s.
And helped us to manage through difficult times and a successful transformation.
We thank him for his countless contributions and wish him all the best.
We also appointed Ray Sprague as permanent Head of Personal Lines.
Ray joined The Hartford in 1985 and has held leadership positions in both strategy and property and casualty including running our market-leading small commercial business.
Personal lines is an important part of our strategy and we remain committed to improving our performance as we go forward.
In closing I want to reiterate that the first quarter was a good start to 2015.
I am confident that we are well-positioned to navigate the more competitive market in a continued low interest rate environment.
We will maintain our underwriting and pricing discipline while also investing in our businesses with a goal of increasing ROE and book value per share to drive shareholder value creation.
Thank you.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Doug.
Doug? Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
Our property and casualty and group benefits businesses started 2015 with solid results for the first quarter.
Retentions continue to be strong helping to post modest top-line growth.
Loss trend in our major lines of business remain benign and within our pricing targets.
And in general our operating performance was very steady an outcome we are pleased with.
We are locked in our core metrics and performance indicators as we continue to balance margins and growth amid increasing competition.
We’re focused on new business risk selection retention of our best performing accounts and overall rate adequacy.
The marketplace has grown more competitive over the last quarter.
We’re beginning to find that there are fewer new business opportunities transacting at our target return levels.
We’re also seeing more pressure on our renewals as the rate adequacy of our book has clearly improved in recent years.
We are going to compete aggressively however we’re not going to chase business outside of our underwriting and profitability parameters.
Our intense operating focus over the last several years as well as the investments we’ve been making in product underwriting and technology position us on a solid foundation to compete effectively under various market dynamics.
I’ll share a bit more about this as I recap the first quarter performance for our business units.
In commercial lines we delivered core earnings of $234 million with a combined ratio of 95.9.
This was an earnings decrease of $30 million from first quarter 2014 largely driven by last year's one-time expense benefit from changes in New York Workers' Compensation Board assessments.
Adjusting for this item our combined ratio improved four tenths of a point.
Renewal written pricing in standard commercial lines was 3% for the quarter.
This is actually down about half a point from fourth quarter although both quarters rounded to 3%.
Overall pricing is being buoyed somewhat by increases in commercial auto.
In workers' compensation improved rate adequacy for the industry has resulted in greater competition especially in middle market where our renewal written pricing of 1% was down just over 2 points from fourth quarter.
In small commercial workers' compensation renewal written pricing was 2% declining by just half a point.
Our loss trends in worker’s compensation continued to be favorable and our returns are within our target range.
Catastrophe losses for the first quarter 2015 were very similar to what we experienced a year ago although storms this year were much heavily concentrated in the north-east than last year's widespread activity.
We again saw higher loss activity in commercial lines rather than personal lines largely attributable to the different geographic concentrations in these businesses.
In small commercial written premium for the quarter grew 5% with strong policy retention and a slight uptick in new business.
The underlying combined ratio excluding catastrophes and prior-year development was 89.6 up four tenths of a point versus last year after adjusting for the New York Assessment benefit.
The increase reflects higher expenses as we continue to make investments to improve the customer experience enhance our products deploy new technology features and add local sales representatives.
We also saw an increase in agency supplemental compensation costs driven by improvements in our loss ratio.
We remain very pleased with our overall margins in this business and the capabilities we’re bringing to market.
Catastrophes hit our small commercial business a bit harder in this quarter versus last year largely the result of winter storms here in the north-east where we have a higher concentration of business.
As always our claims response was outstanding and we will continue to evolve our catastrophe modeling and pricing to keep pace with emerging weather patterns.
In middle market we posted another solid quarter with an underlying combined ratio of 93.7 improving 1.1 points after adjusting for the New York Assessment benefit in 2014.
Much of this gain is coming from margin improvement in workers' compensation as our pricing and underwriting mix actions earn through the book of business.
Written premium growth was 3% as retentions remain steady and new business production benefited from a higher mix of larger accounts.
As I mentioned in my opening we’re seeing a slowdown in our new business pipeline for accounts that meet our underwriting profile.
Both the selection of new accounts and the renewal of existing accounts is driven by the talent portfolio management tools and data analytics we’ve enhanced in recent years.
We will continue to write business when it’s well priced and exercise the discipline to walk away when it’s not.
Middle market commercial auto has been an area that has not met our return targets.
In particular our corrective actions have taken longer to gain traction and show the improvements we expected.
Price increases in the quarter were in the high single digits and we’re continuing to push even harder to achieve a rate adequacy in this line.
Within specialty commercial the underlying combined ratio of 99.1 improved versus prior year after adjusting for the New York Assessment benefit in 2014.
At this combined ratio the overall business is operating within our target return range reflecting particularly strong performance in bond and financial products.
Favorable prior-year development in financial products contributed to specialty commercials' combined ratio of 94.5.
D&amp;O claim trends since the financial crisis have been more favorable than our initial estimates and we continue to see strong performance in the E&amp;O line.
These coverages are becoming an important part of our overall value proposition across all our commercial line business units and it’s great to have strong results coming from financial products.
National accounts continues to perform well and we’re pleased with the overall profile of this business.
We feel comfortable with our retentions and new business hit rates in a very competitive market.
In personal lines core earnings were $75 million for the quarter down from $101 million last year.
The underlying combined ratio of 89.9 deteriorated 1.2 points from last year largely driven by auto where we’ve seen a slight uptick in our physical damage severity trends.
Total written premium for the quarter grew slightly better than 1%.
That included 1% growth in AARP Direct and 23% growth in AARP through agents.
We’re pleased with the momentum of the AARP offering through independent agents and we continue to balance growth with overall rate adequacy to ensure that we’re building a strong book of business.
On the direct side we’re adjusting our advertising campaign and early test results have been positive.
Our focus on member value with the support and insight of the AARP organization continues to evolve this program and drive its success.
In the non-AARP agency channel written premium was down 7% versus the first quarter of 2014.
This is partly due to the highly competitive comparative rate of dynamics of the channel and partly due to our own underwriting actions.
We continue to see opportunity in this channel to grow our business through highly partnered agents.
These actions will better position us to align with our best distributor relationships and deliver competitive products to their customers.
Shifting over to group benefits core earnings for the first quarter were $52 million up 16% from 2014 delivering a core earnings margin of 5.9%.
We continue to see favorable trends in our group life and disability loss ratios versus prior year although the rate of improvement has slowed.
Looking at the top line fully insured ongoing premium excluding association-financial institutions was up 4% for the quarter.
Overall book persistency on our employer group block of business is in the low 90%s and we continue to achieve our renewal pricing targets.
Fully insured ongoing sales were $300 million for the quarter a strong start to ‘15 and as I have previously indicated.
Approximately 25% of the sales gains are win-backs customers that left us in recent years but have now come back.
We consistently hear that our service capabilities are a key differentiator and the primary reason clients come back.
We’re proud of our Hartford team mates who make that value proposition real every day.
And we’re continuing to invest in the tools and technology necessary to meet the needs of our customers.
Let me conclude with a few general themes.
Across our property and casualty and group benefits businesses we are well-positioned to compete.
We’ve made important investments to improve our capabilities and taken some hard actions to address shortcomings in our portfolio.
Notwithstanding this consistent progress in recent years there are always pockets where we can and will do better.
We will continue to dig deep into our business metrics to effectively manage our performance retain our best customers and build value.
2015 is showing signs of greater competition and this is the time for our skill and experience to guide our actions for long-term success.
We have a much stronger foundation for the journey ahead.
Let me now turn the call over to Beth.
Thank you Doug.
I am going to briefly cover first quarter results for the other businesses and then provide an update on the investment portfolio and our capital management activities.
Mutual funds core earnings rose 5% in the first quarter primarily due to an increase in fees from higher average assets under management excluding Talcott variable annuity funds.
As expected Talcott-related AUM continued to run off which reduced the segment's total AUM compared with a year ago.
Fund performance remained solid this quarter with 70% of funds outperforming their peers over the last 5 years.
Our strong performance track record has helped drive strong mutual fund sales resulting in net positive flows of $529 million.
Talcott posted good results this quarter with core earnings of $111 million about $20 million above our expectation because of higher investment returns including limited partnership returns.
We model limited partnership income at a 6% annualized return.
Assuming that return Talcott's quarterly core earnings for the balance of the year would be in the $85 million to $90 million range.
As Chris mentioned Talcott's annuity contract counts continue to decline.
Our ISV and ESV programs added slightly to the variable and fixed annuity runoff.
And we will continue to look at contract holder initiatives and other programs that can help accelerate the decline in these books of business.
Since we put Talcott into runoff variable and fixed annuity contract counts have dropped by almost one-third down 32% and 29% respectively since June 30 2012.
During the quarter Talcott paid a $500 million dividend to the holding company which contributed to the decline in statutory surplus to $5.1 billion from $5.6 billion.
We generated about $63 million of net statutory surplus this quarter in line with our prior outlook of $200 million to $300 million of surplus generation for the full year.
However low interest rates could provide downward pressure on that estimate as we approached year end.
We do not expect this to impact our current intention to take two dividends of $500 million each from Talcott.
One in the second half of 2015 and another one again in early 2016.
Corporate segment first quarter 2015 core losses were about flat to the prior year.
We expect some reduction in interest expense during 2015 as we repay $280 million of maturing debt during the quarter and also intend to repay another $167 million of scheduled debt maturities later this year.
In addition we will utilize up to $500 million for additional debt management including the call of our October 2017 debt maturity we recently announced.
Turning to investments the credit performance of our portfolio remains strong with a modest $15 million of impairments during the quarter.
Our portfolio yield also held up reasonably well this quarter despite the headwinds from low interest rates with an annualized yield of 4.1% excluding limited partnerships.
In addition we had more fixed income make-whole premiums this quarter than normal which added a few basis points to the all-in yield compared with fourth quarter.
New money yields remain low although within the range we expected for the year which will continue to put pressure on investment income levels.
Limited partnership returns on the other hand were well above our outlook with an annualized return of about 14% consistent with the prior year but more than double the 6% average we use for planning purposes.
This impacted Talcott's results in particular as I noted earlier.
Our private equity and real estate partnerships drove most of this upside while our hedge fund investments which are principally global macro funds had low single-digit annualized returns consistent with our outlook.
To wrap up on our results we had a good quarter with consolidated core earnings per diluted share up 11% excluding net favorable items in both periods such as catastrophes below budget prior-year development and the New York Assessments.
In addition book value per diluted share excluding AOCI rose 2% from year end 2014 reflecting net growth in shareholders' equity and the accretive impact of the share repurchase program.
Growing book value per share is a key financial goal for The Hartford and an important driver of shareholder value creation over time.
A second key financial goal is increasing our core ROE.
The 12 month core earnings ROE was 8.1% a good improvement over the prior year which included the benefit from several net favorable items.
While this remains below our cost of capital we intend to improve the ROE over time with continued core earnings growth and capital management.
The 12 month un-levered ROE for our P&amp;C group benefits and mutual funds businesses was 10.6%.
Before turning to Q&amp;A I’d like to provide a brief update on our capital management plan.
As a reminder the two-year plan initiated in 2014 was $2.775 billion for share repurchases and $1.2 billion for debt capital management.
That plan remains unchanged and through April 24 we have repurchased approximately $2.1 billion of common equity totaling 57 million shares for an average purchase price of $36.93.
We have $656 million remaining under the equity program which we will complete over the balance of the year including a total of approximately $250 million during the second quarter.
Under the debt management program we repaid maturing debt of $200 million in 2014 $289 million in 2015 and expect to repay $167 million in November which leaves approximately $500 million for other debt capital management.
On Friday we noted the custodian of our intention to call the 4% notes due in October 2017 which have PAR outstanding of $296 million.
Including accrued interest and the make-whole premium this bond call will use approximately $320 million of the remaining $500 million.
We expect to use the balance for other debt management actions.
As I previously mentioned during the second half of 2015 we expect Talcott to dividend $500 million to the holding company and P&amp;C group benefits and mutual funds to also generate about $700 million of dividends.
We have made significant strides in reducing debt and improving our balance sheet and risk profile over the past several years which contributed to the S&amp;P and Moody's upgrades.
We expect our capital management plans to include both equity and debt as we look for opportunities to redeploy excess capital accretively both as capital management and investment in our businesses.
We will continue to execute the current capital management plan and during the second half of this year we will update you on our capital management outlook for the remainder of the year and 2016.
To summarize first quarter results were a good start to the year.
Our strategy remains unchanged as we remain focused on growing core earnings in our P&amp;C group benefits and mutual fund businesses to offset the runoff of Talcott's core earnings.
While competitive conditions may be more challenging the underlying returns in our businesses have improved significantly compared to several years ago and we are well-positioned both financially and competitively to continue to create shareholder value.
I will now turn the call over to Sabra so we can begin the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Beth.
As I noted earlier we have about 30 minutes for Q&amp;A.
In order to get through the queue and allow everyone to have time to ask their question we would request that you limit yourself to one question and a follow-up and then re-queue if you have additional questions.
Sean could you please give the Q&amp;A instructions? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Michael Nannizzi from Goldman Sachs your line is open.
Couple questions.
Is there any way we could quantify Doug the technology investments and higher commissions based on business profitability on 1Q results? Mike we don't share the details to allow you to do that.
I would say this that Chris and I have shared that our technology invest plan over this three year period is a $1 billion-plus plan.
That’s putting a little bit more than half of the - about half of the expense pressure namely inside small commercial as I called out this morning? Right.
And as I mentioned we obviously are seeing a very solid profitable run through our loss ratio.
So we’re feeling a little expense pressure in our supplementals because we’ve got a three year trigger for loss ratios with many of our agents and brokers.
Okay.
Got it.
Okay.
So I mean as that continues then we could expect to see - I guess we’ll continue to see the expense pressure from supplementals.
And then as you work through your technology spend then we should probably see that normalize at some point? Yeah I would say that.
And clearly as we replace ‘12 with ‘15 - ‘15 starts out in a good spot from a loss ratio standpoint.
The three year run with ‘15 will be ‘13 ‘14 ‘15 which will be three good years.
‘15 clearly is in a better place than ‘12 would have been.
So I think now we get to a normalized level as we approach ‘15.
Mike I would just add on the expense side we are harvesting gains today.
So you should not think that we’re not trying to be efficient today and improve our existing processes particularly as we spend money on new technology which will continue.
We do capitalize some of those investments that will be amortized over a five to seven year period depending on the project.
But we ultimately expect the payback through increased - I'll call it productivity reduced unit cost and ultimately faster growth.
So that’s how Doug and I have been thinking about it.
On the upgrades this last week Beth thinking about those where do those fall in your expectation? I mean clearly you’re working towards this type of recognition.
Is this earlier than you expected? Earlier affirmation than you expected? And does this change in any way how you're thinking about your capital management plan as you start penciling the second half of the year? Thanks.
Thanks Mike.
So obviously we're very pleased with the actions that both S&amp;P and Moody's have taken.
Obviously over the last several years we’ve been working with them closely to share with them our plans and we plan to continue to work for continued improvement.
So I don't see it changing our views relative to our capital management plans.
Again it’s nice to get the recognition for the improvements that we have made.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Meredith from UBS your line is open.
Couple questions here for you.
Doug just curious on the increase that we saw and some of the severity on the personal auto would you attribute that to kind of industry what’s going on? Or is anything - any of that related to maybe some selection issues with the big rapid growth you're getting in the AARP agency business? We’re looking at every component of that.
And we do feel like there are some things happening here that we need to kind of lean into and we have some work programs around.
We’re clearly looking at vehicle year and making sure that our new open road product is appropriately pricing those.
In the quarter it looked like our subrogation was a little light.
So we’re leaning into subrogation.
And as you understand that that’s something we can catch back up with.
So we’ve got a number of things that we’re looking at internally but we understand there’s probably been a little bit of physical damage pressure across the industry as well.
Great.
And then staying on the P&amp;C topic I’ll let you keep going here Doug.
Commercial auto.
What exactly are the issues with your book that you’re dealing with right now? Seems like some other companies are actually saying they’re finally getting to the right profitability level on commercial auto? Yeah I would start by saying the pressure we’re feeling today in commercial auto is very different than some of the programs and captives we had several years back.
So those are in our history and I feel good about the way we’ve moved away from those programs.
This is more organic middle market and to a lesser extent small pressure just across severity.
We’re seeing severity trends in those books of business.
We’re pricing for them.
We’re looking at vehicle weights against our price per pound.
We're looking at driver experience.
I would say that we’re leaning probably a little bit more aggressively into driver experience this year than we had in the past.
So we’re working across that auto book.
We're going to get this book performing much better as soon as possible.
And I would say right now we’re leaving no stone unturned.
The next question comes from the line of Vincent DeAugustino from KBW your line is open.
Just a quick follow-up on a previous question on the auto loss cost side.
Just with this hitting the physical damage severity side.
I’m curious if this is the result of just greater actual damage to vehicles or if there's any inflation in the repair cost? And the reason I ask here is if it’s on the actual damage levels to the vehicles I’m wondering if there’s any type of correlation on the bodily injury side just maybe to a lesser magnitude? Vince this is Doug again.
We are looking at year of vehicle.
So obviously the newer vehicles will have more technology in the bumpers on both sides.
So that’s something that’s got our full attention.
We obviously feel great about our claim process but we’re going back.
As you know we have a new claim system that is rolling out as we speak.
So we’re looking at the work streams that now revolve around that new system and looking at similar type and year to make sure we’re on top of all those trends.
Okay.
So your driver base isn't as sensitive to gas prices but any notable shifts on the frequency side? A general up-shift but not dramatically we've watched this carefully over the last 10 months 12 months and so not that I think this is inside our patterns relative to loss at the moment.
Okay.
And if I can squeeze another one on just pricing on the workers' comp side.
Workers' comp is a generalization of a lot of smaller micro markets and geographies and injury class codes.
I'm curious based on your comment this morning within those aggregate numbers if there are any pockets of really favorable or destructive pricing that you’ve got to watch out for? I think you probably have a great sense of the marketplace.
In general there’s been a downward pressure across the filings in workers' comp.
So some of the major states are looking at moves in the pricing realm that now are flat to down.
I would say across the middle market I don't see major swings from the geographic standpoint.
I think we’re competing well I think the tools are in place; the books are very adequately priced.
So the improvements we’ve made over the last three years I think do position a bit more competition which is what we’re seeing.
But we’re going to keep our discipline and I’m very comfortable that we’re going to be thoughtful as we play this out.
The next question comes from the line of Jay Gelb from Barclays your line is open.
First on Talcott I just want to get a bit of a better understanding why you feel the quarterly run rate of earnings would be $85 million to $95 million given the strong - or much stronger performance was on the first quarter.
Was that just all simply due to excess limited partnership income? Yeah.
That’s exactly what drove the out performance for the quarter.
So when we look at just normalizing the run rate for investment income it gets back down within the range that we previously gave.
Okay.
And then on the capital structure Beth.
I'm looking at page 5 of the supplement.
I think this lays it out pretty clearly.
Could you remind us where you feel a target range should be for the dollar amount of debt and also debt to capital? My guess is you’re focused on rating agency adjusted debt to capital? If you could remind us your targets there that would be helpful for modeling purposes.
Yes absolutely.
So we do focus on the last line that you see on that schedule which is the rating agency adjusted debt to capitalization.
So ended the quarter at 27.3%.
When we look forward to the year and anticipate the debt reduction that I covered in my remarks all things else being equal we’d expect that 27.3% to be on a slightly under 25%.
And we stated all along our goal has been marching down to the low 20%s.
Okay.
So even after the Company finishes up its debt reduction for this year that seems to imply there could be more to come in the years ahead to get that ratio lower? Yes.
So as we look forward and we think about capital management actions in the future debt reduction was something we’ll always consider.
As we said in the past we don't need to get to that target immediately.
So we intend to continue to be balanced in how we approach that.
But obviously as you do equity repurchases that also puts pressure on the ratio.
So we’re really just looking to balance all of that.
And I would call it a steady march down to the low 20%s.
Your next question comes from the line of John Nadel from Piper Jaffray your line is open.
A question for Doug on the commercial lines side and maybe it’s sort of wrapping up a couple of the earlier questions maybe in one maybe easier fashion for us to understand.
I think for 2015 you had targeted a combined ratio ex-CATs in prior year between 89.5 and 91.5.
1Q was definitely a bit above that range but obviously tough weather.
But also on the expense side it sounds like things are going to be a little bit higher.
Can you give us a sense - do you still feel good about that range for 2015? Or could this expense component push you modestly above the upper end of that? John I would say that we still feel like that range is achievable.
A couple of thoughts.
One is I do think the first quarter on the expense side is a tough compare because of the one-timers that were achieved last year.
But we’re conscious of that and as Chris said before we’re driving efficiencies inside this operation.
So although we’re driving some of the dollars back inside the invest part of our business we are looking to become a more streamlined efficient company over time.
And I do think obviously we’ve got to wait and see how weather plays out second and third quarter.
But I look at this as a solid start to the year and those targets definitely achievable.
Okay.
Thank you.
Then separately maybe a question for Beth on the runoff annuity block.
The variable annuity surrender rate remains high although I guess it’s coming down modestly but can't stay in the 20%s forever I suppose.
But the fixed annuity surrender rate this quarter dropped pretty significantly.
Was there any specific thing that happened there? Yes.
So I will remind you John we had a program in place in 2014 that increased that surrender rate our ISV program.
So that obviously impacted those surrender rates that we saw in ‘14 and then going into ‘15.
And as I said in my remarks we will continue to look at ways that we can target specific portions of the book as we have in the past.
And obviously that can make the surrender rates sort of ebb and flow.
Okay.
So ex-some sort of modified program we should expect probably something more in the low to mid single digits on the fixed annuity block? Yes.
It does tend to bounce around a bit too.
But I think on average I would say that that would make sense.
But quarter-to-quarter depending on just where various contracts stand relative to choices that they have to make you can sometimes see the numbers bounce.
But on average I think that’s a good place to be.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then I'm going to sneak one last one in unless Sabra wants to beat me up.
But as we look forward to an updated capital management outlook in the back half of the year can you just remind us what the ongoing cash needs of the parent company? How much cash do you want to hold back relative to interest expense and dividend payments etcetera? Sure.
So as we’ve talked about in the past when we think about holding company cash and levels that we'd feel comfortable at we typically target around 1.5 times interest and dividend requirements.
And when you look at where we are with interest and dividends you can think about that as being in like the $650 million range.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay Cohen from Bank of America Merrill Lynch your line is open.
A couple of questions.
First is Doug I think you mentioned that you had planned to adjust your ad campaign for the AARP business.
What specifically will you be doing and how do you think that will affect the revenues? What we’ve done in the ad campaign is we’ve adjusted slightly to be a little bit more value-based tied in with the AARP membership.
So as we’ve made some tweaks over the past 90 days our response rate has risen positively.
And our close rate on those responses also has seen some favorable reactions.
So more to come as we work out the rest of 2015 but very encouraged by the early start.
Great.
And then sticking with personal lines the agency - non-AARP agency business you had said it’s getting pretty competitive with comparative raters.
Was there a change in the quarter or is this just a gradual continuation of what you’ve seen over the past several years? I would say from the industry side no change that we can tell.
We have made some adjustments in our own strategy really around classes in vehicles and geographies just normal tuning that goes on day-to-day.
And so the combined actions of competitive pressures on our own actions contributed to the quarter.
Got it.
Let me just add just a perspective too because I called it out particularly in my prepared remarks that we are - I mean personal lines is an important strategy for The Hartford and complementary obviously with our strong commercial capabilities.
So that’s why we appointed one of our seasoned leaders Ray Sprague to really lead this and help us continue to improve it because we have a wonderful 30-plus year relationship with AARP that we want to continue to leverage and serve their customers.
Specifically on your ad question if you haven't seen them I’ll get Sabra sent to send you a clip.
But they’re really powerful connections - emotional connections Doug I would say.
They’re strong testimonial-based hearing directly from AARP members themselves and explaining the value proposition that we offer.
As opposed to just competing on price and just a minimum I'll call it features and capabilities in the products.
So we offer a rich product that we’re proud of from a coverage side.
And I think we're going to try to do a better job in explaining why those coverages are needed to insure for the unforeseen.
So those are just a couple thoughts I just share with you.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Gallagher from Credit Suisse your line is open.
I’ll have a question and then I’ll turn it over to [Ryan Tunis] for a follow-up P&amp;C question.
Beth just coming back as a follow-up to what John Nadel asked about on the capital management front.
So if I understood your answer correctly that should leave the full we’ll call it $500 million dividend that you expect to get out of Talcott in the back half plus the $700 million of operating dividends or $1.2 billion.
It should leave all of that for incremental capital management or other over and above your existing capital plan.
Is that right or is it some fraction of the $1.2 billion that would not have been accounted for yet? Yes.
So the way I would have you think about that Tom if you recall back in February we provided you with an update on our projections of holding company cash and where we expected the holding company to end the year at.
And that was at about $1.8 billion and that remains unchanged.
That took into consideration all the dividends that we just talked about.
So when I was answering John's question on the holding company requirements and if you think about $650 millionish being the annual interest and dividends that the holding company pays and our target to hold 1.5 times that I think that gives you a little bit of map as how we think about yearend ‘15.
And then again as we said going into ‘16 we have the additional $500 million dividend that we anticipate taking out of Talcott as well as just our normal dividends that we would take out of the other businesses.
Got you.
So that would leave a little under $1 billion then if I’m solving - in response to that - with that response in mind it would leave a little under $1 billion in terms of incremental capital management? Is that the right number to think about? And then obviously it’s a determination of what do you use for buybacks versus debt management but is that the right figure? Yes.
So Tom I don't really want to get into a specific number.
As we said we are going to look to update our plans in the second half once we’re going to see how the first half of ‘15 goes and our views of the remainder of ‘15 going into ‘16.
There’s nothing hidden in the math that I’m giving you - so you can draw your own conclusion.
But again when we talk about updating our plans it would be ‘15 through ‘16.
Got you.
And I’ll turn it over to Ryan on P&amp;C.
So I guess my question is – Ryan let me just follow up on Tom and - I appreciate your reconciliation and trying to pinpoint it.
But I think Beth said it well is that we will get into the second half of ‘15 go through our regular forward-looking planning process and see the - and just make some final decisions.
I think from my perspective I take great comfort in the fact that the agencies have seen the improvements that we’re making.
We are sitting on excess capital that we intend to deploy in accretive ways.
You’ve heard our penchant to keeping things in balance between debt and equity so I don't think there is anything really changed.
And if you could just continue to be just a little patient with us in that we want to be a regular company and sort of look at these things in a normal cycle and rhythm and we’ll communicate our views to you at the appropriate time.
But thank you for your interest.
Thanks Chris.
So yeah I guess my question on the ongoing businesses a little bit higher level on personal lines it’s for either Ray or Doug.
But I guess just looking at auto 7% renewal rate increases this quarter.
Should we expect margin improvement in that business this year given the magnitude of those rate increases? Or would you say those rate increases are necessary just to keep up based on some of the elevated physical damage severity you mentioned? Thanks As we start the year loss trend is certainly eating into our pricing equation.
We hope that that will change.
We have got a number of work streams to try to bring incremental margin back inside that book.
I would remind you that overall our auto book is in actually pretty reasonable shape.
And clearly on the AARP side very solid shape.
We have some work to do in the agency channel and we’ve chatted about that in the past.
So I hope that we can turn that pricing into a benefit inside the ratio.
That’s the goal.
Your next question comes from the line of Erik Bas from Citigroup your line is open.
Just wanted to touch on the group benefits business.
Obviously it was a very strong quarter for sales and you cited the benefit from the win-backs.
Can you also talk about the contribution from new products? And maybe also just discuss the competitive trends that you’re seeing in the group benefits market? I’ll try to cover a few of those items in the question which was a good one.
Very pleased with the quarter obviously a strong sales quarter - our strongest sales quarter in several years.
Although I would remind you that we’ve had quarters like that in the past when this business was really running well for us back in the late 2000s and even into 2010 so pleased with our start to 2015.
You can also see that a bit more success has been on the life side.
So as we look at the long-term duration contracts in LTD strong start but not as strong probably as we had seen on the life contract side so just something in terms of marketplace.
Yes we’re excited about the new product development over the past several years and we’ve got two new voluntary products in market including a new disability flex product.
We have sold several of those deals.
I will also tell you that we‘re looking to populate them with employees of the contracts that we’ve written them on but I think off to a good start.
They're recognized by many of our policyholders and I think we’re going to begin to see that success play out in 2015.
So very pleased with our group benefit start.
Got it.
Thank you.
And just any comment on the overall competition? I guess when you’ve talked about - your comments around competition picking up generally it seems it was more related to P&amp;C.
But anything similar that you’re seeing on the group benefits side or is it still a relatively benign environment? I would say it’s a relatively consistent environment so we see competition there.
Maybe a bit more on the LTD side than what we had experienced in the past.
And again what’s so interesting about the group benefit world is that particularly in the national accounts we’re working six months nine months in advance.
So some of the successes we had in the first quarter were really the result of actions and proposals that went on last summer.
But we’re feeling good about our ability to be successful in the middle market.
That will be an increasingly important part of our group benefit strategy.
But I do think rational competition really across in a consistent manner.
I would just add a couple of themes that Doug explained.
One if you look at sales the life TI piece is interesting so shorter duration versus longer duration.
We’re having a little bit more success particularly in the lower stream environment.
Two it’s obviously a heavy national account season the 1-1.
But equally there’s a lot of good contribution that Doug and the team have been focused on in middle market in the small side.
So our balance of sales is spread amongst the different segments.
And then thirdly the channel I would say exchanges are beginning to contribute in a way that we anticipated but is a positive development too.
So we rely on our existing agents and brokers.
But there are a number of exchanges that we’re participating in that are contributing nicely to our increase in sales.
Your next question comes from the line of Randy Binner from FBR your line is open.
A lot of good stuff so mostly answered.
But I want to actually jump back to the commercial auto discussion and then some comments in the opening script that D&amp;O and E&amp;O claim activity has been favorable.
So it’s a reserve question in that the net reserve release in the quarter for commercial lines was relatively flat.
And it was relatively flat overall.
So the question is was there adverse POID in commercial auto that offset the more favorable D&amp;O and E&amp;O activity or was there not POID in those items this quarter? I think you can see in the sup that yes we had some adverse auto liability actions taken on our reserve position for sure.
Mostly middle market I might comment.
And then the financial product good news essentially did offset that.
Just a thought about the financial product D&amp;O E&amp;O book.
We were heavier in the financial institution block back during the recessionary period so we made appropriate reserve position judgments back in that period.
We've watched them play out as the last five or six years have played out.
This quarter we came to the decision that we had - it was time to make some of those adjustments.
So the netting of those two is what’s playing out in our reserve position on the prior and I think it is well laid out in the sup for you.
Thank you.
And then the follow-up is just on thinking of more recent accident years.
So if - especially with D&amp;O and E&amp;O with the economy continuing to be good and loss cost relatively benign especially in ‘12 and ‘13 there’s been a pricing.
Is there an early read you have on some of those - the casualty lines written in those more recent accident years and how they may develop? I think it’s too early for us to comment on that.
We have a well-balanced book of business across sector geography etcetera.
But I think it would be early for me to make a call on ‘14 or ‘13.
All right fair enough.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Jimmy Bhullar from JPMorgan your line is open.
Many of my questions were actually answered but on the personal lines side can you discuss just what’s going on in the non-AARP agency channel premiums? They have been down for a while.
Is it competition or are you being more selective in what you’re choosing to underwrite? And then Beth had mentioned in her remarks on Talcott surplus being sensitive to interest rates.
Maybe if you could quantify or give us some color on just how sensitive it would be to make 20 basis points 30 basis points 50 basis points of a change in rates? I’ll start and take the first half and then we’ll flip to Beth.
I would say that with Ray's leadership - and he and I now have been engaged heavily with the group over the past nine months - it’s a great chance for us to do a refresh.
We’ve mentioned that we are rolling out a new auto class plan that always encourages tuning as these things roll into market.
So I would consider what we’re doing in the marketplace kind of normal for a competitive product adjustment strategy that we will continue to evolve as we move forward.
Yes it’s a competitive channel but I think our returns are really in very solid shape.
We would like them to be a bit better but I’m satisfied with where we are and I think we will continue to do tuning as we move forward.
And Jimmy on the question on interest rates I don't have an exact sensitivity that I can give you - a basis point change and what that might mean.
What I would tell you is that when we look at the overall book in Talcott we feel very good about the cash flow generation that we see coming from the VA book.
And as we get closer to the end of the year low rates could just put pressure on that previous range that we gave.
But overall still feel very good about the balance sheet strength and feel very comfortable with the dividend plans that we've put out there.
And as we get to the end of ‘15 we will evaluate surplus levels to determine what if any additional dividends we would see in 2016 besides what we have already announced.
And just lastly is there a minimum level of surplus you would want to leave in Talcott assuming a normal decline in the size of the block? I don't have a specific target in mind.
Over time obviously we focus on RBC ratios.
We look at the overall surplus especially in stress situations and then also balancing liquidity.
So again the plan that we have announced and the dividends that we expect to take out put us well within all of those thresholds that we monitor.
And again as the book gets smaller we will evaluate absolute surplus levels.
And those amounts you are comfortable with even with rates where they are right? Yes.
The items that we have already disclosed we feel very comfortable with.
Your next question comes from the line of Ian Gutterman from Balyasny your line is open.
I wanted to follow up on Randy's question about the reserves in the recent accident years.
Doug I specifically focused on workers' comp.
Obviously that is your biggest area of reserves.
And when I look at the recent accident years they are reported to incur - the initial reported to incur is so much better than has been historically that I can't draw any other conclusion that you seem to be reserving a lot more conservatively.
The only possible exception to that is maybe there has been some meaningful shift in the book where reports would be coming in later than it used to because of mix or some other underwriting change.
Is there anything like that going on? Or should I be encouraged by seeing the early reported to incurred ratios looking so much better than historic? First I am pleased that you are encouraged.
We are encouraged by our book profile over the past few years.
Not only on the pricing side but really very pleased about the mix changes and how they've played out inside our earnings and reserve profile.
So I think 2013 and 2014 are still early to call but we are very pleased as to how they look and we hope they continue to look as solid as they are today.
But you know we call them as we see them.
We feel good about progress but these are long tail lines that take awhile to mature.
Of course I was thinking more how they play out over time than expecting it this year.
But that's okay and then just a follow-up on the agency auto business then for you and or Chris.
Just strategically and I - you obviously talked a lot about some of the changes you are making but as sort of Jimmy alluded to that book shrunk for a long time.
And again I am specifically talking about the non-AARP here.
Are the actions you are taking enough that you can compete where you need to at the scale you are at? Or are you going to have to face a decision eventually of either you need to get bigger in then non-AARP business or maybe get out of the non-AARP business? Ian I think you ask very solid questions.
As Chris had suggested we are totally committed to this space.
This is been a real solid complement to not only our personal lines agency franchise but also to the commercial as well.
But we have been challenged and we have got to get those hit challenges head on from a financial standpoint.
We are doing so as we speak today.
I am optimistic about what the next couple years will bring but I also know that challenge in the channel based on how competition competes and the comparative rates etcetera.
So I think we will be talking about this as time plays out.
And know it has our full attention.
And we are on it and we are pulling levers to drive a better financial outcome.
Ian I think Doug said it well.
But I think when you think about it also strategically we still believe in advice that the independent agents provide provided that we have a good competitive home and auto product.
So I think when you speak of auto don't forget about home in making sure that we have a total solution for our independent agents and our customers.
So as Doug said it and he said it well.
We are committed to figuring this out and how we can continue to add value in this segment.
Thank you.
Sean we are coming up the hour so we have time for one more question please.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Frost from Bank of America Merrill Lynch your line is open.
Without getting into any predictions of ratings - credit rating trajectory can you give us an idea of where you think your targeted metrics map in terms of NRSRO quantitative ratings? And I have a follow-up.
I'm sorry Scott.
The tail end of your question got a little garbled.
The metrics relative to -- Yes.
In terms of just the quantitative ratings that NRSROs have out there you have targeted metrics.
Where do you - what do you think they map? Right like the 22% to 23% for instance on the debt to total capital.
Yes.
I would say just slightly higher.
Okay.
And can you also remind us a couple things I want to ask about the Glen Meadows and the eight and eight junior subs.
What Moody's basket treatment do they get and are they within S&amp;P's equity bucket for you? And how would you characterize the attractiveness of those two instruments in your capital structure? For Moody's it is 25% and for S&amp;P 100%.
The way I think about it we looked at our debt stack in total in trying to manage to the targets that I said.
So those obviously weigh into that as we look at really focusing on the rating agency adjusted targets.
So right now they fit very nicely.
And as we continue to manage the debt stack we really are looking at it more from the perspective of managing to those targets.
So are you saying that both of those instruments are attractive to you now? Right now yes they are attractive.
They do help us achieve the targets that we have.
Over time that could change but for where we sit today we do see them as attractive.
There are no further questions.
Thank you Sean.
We would like to thank you all for joining us today and for your interest in The Hartford.
If anyone has any remaining questions please feel free to contact Sean or myself by phone or e-mail and we will be happy to help you.
Thank you and have a great day.
This concludes today's conference call.
Good morning.
My name is Chris and I’ll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Hartford second quarter 2015 financial results conference call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Sabra Purtill Head of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Good morning and welcome everyone to the Hartford second quarter webcast.
Our news release investor financial supplement second quarter financial results presentation and 10-Q were all released yesterday afternoon and are posted on our website.
Our speakers today include Christopher Swift Chairman and CEO of The Hartford Douglas Elliot President and Beth Bombara CFO.
Following their prepared remarks we will have about 30 minutes for Q&amp;A.
Just a few notes before Chris begins.
Today’s call includes forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results could be materially different.
We do not assume any obligation to update forward looking statements and investors should consider the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from these statements.
A detailed description of those risks and uncertainties can be found in our SEC filings which are available on our website.
Our presentation today also includes several non-GAAP financial measures.
Explanations and reconciliations of these measures to the comparable GAAP measure are included in our SEC filings as well as in the news release and financial supplement.
I’ll now turn the call over to Chris.
Thank you Sabra and good morning everyone.
Welcome to the call.
Last night we reported strong financial and operational performance for the second quarter of 2015 completing a successful first half of the year.
We continue to navigate in a dynamic market environment and reported improved results across all of our businesses.
Core earnings per diluted share for the second quarter was $0.91 a significant increase compared with the prior year.
P&amp;C Group Benefits and Mutual Funds each delivered better operating margins in top line growth this quarter.
This quarter’s strong performance contributed to a 12-month core earnings ROE of 9.6%.
The quarter also included net favorable items compared with last year including higher limited partnership income lower CATs a federal tax benefit lower A&amp;E reserved strengthening and a favorable litigation outcome.
Even when adjusting for these items underlying results were strong.
Doug will provide more details on P&amp;C and Group Benefits in a few minutes but I’d like to share with you a few highlights from the quarter.
In P&amp;C our combined ratio when adjusted for CATs in prior year development was 88.9 a 3.8 improvement over the second quarter of 2014.
We are especially pleased to see improved underwriting results in both commercial and personal lines.
In group benefits the results reflect our focus on new business generation in disciplined underwriting.
Sales increased 29% and after-tax core earnings margin increased to 6.3%.
We continue to successfully manage the runoff of Talcott with year-over-year declines in variable and fixed annuity contract accounts of 12% and 11% respectively since June 2014.
In addition to strong earnings we are also pleased to announce that our Board of Directors approved an increase in the company’s capital management plan and extended it through December 2016.
Beth will review the details in a few moments.
The plan reflects the successful strategic and financial transformation of the company including a sharpened focus on P&amp;C Group Benefits and Mutual Funds businesses.
Since the beginning of 2014 we have returned to shareholders more than $2.8 billion of capital.
With the increase in this plan we intend to return nearly 5.3 billion in share repurchases income and dividends over the three-year period ending 2016.
Our primary focus going forward continues to be on the profitable expansion of P&amp;C Group Benefits and Mutual Funds business where is we hold competitive market positions.
As you know we have been investing aggressively in these businesses with the goal of improving operating capabilities.
This effort includes a significant upgrade in technology such as our market leading small commercial icon system and the recent introduction of a new claims platform.
And we have additional upgrades planned.
As we consider management of excess capital in the future we will prioritize opportunities that accelerate our premium growth and operating capabilities.
In the event that we do not find opportunities that meet our strategic and financial objectives we will continue to return excess capital to shareholders.
Looking forward I am confident that we have the right strategy capabilities and people required to successfully compete in a dynamic market environment.
The Hartford strategy is focused on four areas.
First is product expansion.
We continue to expand our products to meet a broader range of policyholder risk needs.
We are also participating more deeply in targeted industries and extending our risk selection capabilities.
The second is distribution effectiveness.
We are actively expanding The Hartford’s commercial line sales and underwriting presence in key geographies particularly in the west and Midwest.
This expansion supported by enhanced marketing efforts and rigorous sales execution is driving better outcomes.
Third we continue to improve the customer experience and the operating capabilities of our company through things like process efficiency improvements technology upgrades and digital access.
And fourth we continue to invest in talent.
We are proud of our employees and we are working diligently to attract retain and develop the best talent in the industry.
For example we recently hired Mo Tooker as our Chief Underwriting Officer for the P&amp;C businesses and added two new executives to compliment the Personal Lines team Mary Boyd and Casey Campbell.
Like the rest of you we are closely watching developments across the industry including recent M&amp;A activities.
These activities certainly have repercussions on our markets.
While change brings risk it also brings opportunity.
We are prepared to address and benefit from opportunities that arise particularly those that fit our primary focus of expanding products increasing distribution effectiveness improving the customer experience in our operating capabilities and becoming a destination for great talent.
As I reflect on my first full-year as CEO I am appreciative of the many contributions that our Hartford’s employees make every day.
What makes The Hartford special is our strong character.
Throughout the past year we have received numerous accolades for ethical conduct risk management governance and diversity in inclusion practices and those attributes are incredibly important us to.
In conclusion we are well positioned to achieve continued success and we remain focused and our goal of increasing ROE and book value per share to drive shareholder value creation.
Thank you.
And now I’ll turn the call over to Doug.
Thanks Chris and good morning everyone.
Our Property and Casualty and Group Benefits businesses posted strong bottom line results for the second quarter.
Favorable property experience for both catastrophe and non-catastrophe losses was a significant contributor to earnings.
In other lines our businesses produced solid margins consistent with recent quarters as loss trends remain benign.
With the benefit of strong retention we also delivered solid top line growth.
Favorable weather patterns were clearly the primary force behind our outstanding property results.
While we have been increasing our property capabilities in recent years and I am confident that our improved acumen and risk selection and analytics is an important driver for our long-term success we know that quarter to quarter results will be subject to the presence or absence of severe weather.
A well-balanced product mix that includes property is a competitive advantage with customers and agents and we remain steady on our long-term strategic goals in this line of business.
Competitive dynamics across all our businesses are largely unchanged from last quarter.
As I commented then adequately priced new business opportunities are more limited and we remain disciplined in our risk selection approach.
We continue to find success in our local relationships with agents and brokers and we have been investing in sales and underwriting professionals along with our product and technology capabilities to improve our market position.
I’ll provide some additional insights on this as I share the second quarter performance of our individual business units.
In Commercial Lines core earnings was $264 million with a combined ratio of 92.2%.
This was an earnings increase of $51 million from second quarter 2014 largely driven by favorable property experience margin improvement in workers’ compensation and higher net investment income.
Renewal written pricing and standard commercial lines was 3% for the quarter essentially flat with the first quarter of 2015 and down two points from second quarter last year.
Pricing continues to be strongest in commercial auto where our profit improvement remains a focus.
Trends in workers’ compensation pricing are generally in line with first quarter as we execute a very disciplined strategy to retain our best performing business at margins that meet or exceed our return targets.
Catastrophe losses for second quarter 2015 were slightly higher than a year ago but below our expectations.
In small Commercial written premium grew 4% in the quarter driven mainly by strong policy retention as the new business growth rate has slowed somewhat in recent quarters due to competitive forces.
The underlying combined ratio excluding catastrophes and prior year development was an outstanding 85.1%.
The decrease of 2 1/2 points versus a year ago is the result of lower non-cap property losses and improved workers’ compensation margins.
We’re very pleased with our sustained performance in this business.
Our strong written premium growth rate and profit margins have been very resilient as our underwriting and pricing analytics have helped to guide our book up business management actions.
In mail market we posted a strong quarter with an underlying combined ratio of 89.3% improving 8.3 points versus second quarter 2014.
Much like in small Commercial the improvement is coming primarily from excellent non-cap property experience with contribution from margin improvement and workers’ compensation.
A large portion of the favorable property result came from our marine business where we had an excellent second quarter.
Written premium growth was 8% driven by strong retention in workers’ compensation and increased new business in both construction and marine.
We’re pleased with recent success in these industry targeted businesses as they are a strategic focus for us.
This is a positive indication of the traction we’re gaining in the market as a result of talent and product investments made over the last several years.
Since earlier this year we have been adding underwriters in regions where we believe we can cultivate agency partnerships and compete effectively for new business.
This is a longer term strategy for growth and it will take time to build momentum in these local markets.
However we believe it is the right time to be investing in talent to put our improved product and technology platform to even greater use in the market and develop new books of profitable business.
In specialty Commercial the underlying combined ratio was 98.8% versus 101.5% in the prior year.
The three main businesses comprising specialty commercial are all operating within our target return range.
We posted solid top line growth of 4% while margin improvement was driven by improved loss experience in financial products and a mixed shift in our results toward bond with a smaller capped business.
In personal lines core earnings was $42 million for the quarter versus last year’s $27 million loss.
Much of this improvement is due to favorable catastrophes which are down this year by $64 million pre-tax.
In addition we had significant improvement in our non-catastrophe homeowner losses versus last year when we experienced elevated homeowner fire losses.
Comparatively fire loss this is year were at their lowest level in the last five years and $11 million of the improvement in core earnings was due to a favorable resolution of outstanding litigation.
The underlying combined ratio of 89.1% improved two points from last year largely driven by the homeowner results I just described partially offset by a slight uptick in auto liability severity.
In addition we’ve been closely monitoring increased auto physical damage severity having begun to see adverse trends several quarters ago.
Industry trends in early 2015 also appeared to be somewhat elevated.
We have identified several opportunities for improvement to our physical damage claim practices and have taken action.
Our early observations from these initiatives indicate that we’re driving improved outcomes particularly in areas such as subrogation and total loss management.
Total written premium for the quarter grew 1% including 1% growth in ARP direct and 14% growth in ARP agency.
We continue to be encouraged by the growth and solid margins of our AARP business.
On the direct side new business increased by 4%.
In other agency written premium was down 9% versus second quarter 2014.
We’re aligning ourselves with highly partnered agents who seek to deliver competitive yet value-based products and services to their customers.
As we move in this direction there’ll be some agents and customers that do not match our profile and may seek other options.
Shifting over to Group Benefits core earnings in the second quarter was 56 million up 8% over prior year achieving a core earnings margin of 6.3%.
The increase is primarily attributable to top line growth and a lower expense ratio compared to prior year.
Earn premiums excluding association financial institutions was up 5% in the quarter driven by growth in our employer group life and disability lines.
For the quarter fully insured ongoing sales of 58 million up 13 million from prior year as we continue to have success marketing our differentiated service offering.
In addition our employer group business continues to maintain strong book persistency around 90% on an annualized basis.
The overall loss ratio was essentially flat to prior year.
Improvement in the Group disability loss ratio was largely offset by less favorable mortality in group life which looks to be a function of normal volatility in the line.
This is another excellent quarter for Group Benefits.
Markets remain competitive and we’re performing well in all assets of our business.
We are well positioned with strong book persistency and improved capabilities allowing us to compete for new accounts.
And we’re executing on plan initiatives for our voluntary platform further enhancing our value proposition.
With that let me conclude my comments by reiterating that we had a strong second quarter.
We enjoy favorable results from catastrophe and non-catastrophe property losses and the performance of other lines of business remain strong.
Across our Property and Casualty and Group Benefit businesses we have strengthened our products technology and talent.
Over the last six months we have attracted a number of experienced industry leaders to our team who will help drive our near-term execution and our long-term strategic objectives.
We are confident that the business platform we’ve been building in recent years will serve us well as we balance growth and profitability for the long term.
Let me now turn the call over to Beth.
Thank you Doug.
I’m going to briefly cover results for the other segments and investments and will then review our updated capital management plan.
In addition to Commercial and personal lines P&amp;C includes the P&amp;C other operation segment which has a block of runoff liabilities including asbestos and environmental.
Core losses in this segment were 113 million in the quarter down from losses of 146 million in the second quarter of 2014 due to lower reserve strengthening on our A&amp;E reserves.
As many of you know we complete the annual ground-up A&amp;E reserve study in the second quarter.
As a result of this year’s study on a pre-tax basis we strengthened our net reserves by 146 million for asbestos and by 52 million for environmental or a total of 198 million.
This is down from 2014 when we had net reserve strengthening of 239 million comprised of 212 million for asbestos and 27 million for environmental.
The asbestos reserve strengthening reflects lower than projected improvement in new mesothelioma claims for a handful of our peripheral accounts less than 20 out of more than 1 100.
The remainder of the accounts are trending in line with the assumptions used to set our reserves.
The environmental reserve strengthening was driven by higher new claim severity including at a handful of super-fund sites but frequency has declined.
We are often asked why we haven’t done an A&amp;E reinsurance deal.
We evaluate options for A&amp;E periodically but to date these deals have not been cost effective taking into account many factors including the value we add by continuing to manage these claims ourselves the price charged by potential reinsurers the lack of a full assumption reinsurance or sale option and the potential loss of investment income.
Last year investment income in the P&amp;C other segment totaled 129 million before tax.
Notwithstanding another year of adverse development on the A&amp;E book we believe that we can create a better outcome for shareholders if we continue to manage this book ourselves.
We will of course continue to consider alternatives for these exposures as options and costs could change.
Turning to the financial results of our other segments Mutual Funds core earnings rose 5% in the second quarter primarily due to higher fee income on increased average assets under management excluding Talcott variable annuity funds.
As expected Talcott-related AUM continue to run off which reduced the segment’s total AUM over the past year.
Fund performance remains solid this quarter with 69% of funds outperforming peers over the last five years helping to improve net flows to a positive 250 million in the quarter.
For the first half of 2015 net positive flows totaled 779 million the strongest net flow performance since 2010.
Talcott posted very strong core earnings of 171 million this quarter well above our expectations because of a 48 million federal tax benefit and higher investment income largely from very good returns on limited partnerships.
Driven by private equity and real estate funds limited partnership returns have been very strong this year running at more than double the rate we used in our February outlook.
Talcott’s annuity contract counts continue to decline.
Our ISB program added slightly to the fixed annuity runoff while variable annuity runoff was a more normal level since we did not have a surrender focused contract holder initiative this quarter.
We continue to evaluate contract holder initiatives and other programs that can help decelerate the decline in these books of business.
In July Talcott paid the second 500 million dividend of the year bringing the total to 1 billion.
We expect another 500 million in early 2016.
Corporate segment second quarter 2015 core losses declined compared with the prior year and with the first quarter largely due to lower interest expense as a result of debt repayments.
We expect interest expense to decrease in the second half due to the second quarter bond call and the fourth quarter 167 million debt maturity.
For the full-year interest expense excluding the impact of any debt tenders or repurchases is expected to be about 357 million down 5% from 2014.
Turning to investments the credit performance of our portfolio remains strong with a modest 11 million of impairments during the quarter.
Our annualized portfolio yield excluding limited partnerships was 4.1% and continues to hold up reasonably well despite the headwinds from low interest rates.
New money yields remain low although within the range we expected for the year which will continue to put downward pressure on investment income and yields as higher yielding investments mature and are reinvested at lower returns.
Helping offset this somewhat similar to the first quarter we had higher levels of income from fixed income make whole premiums and other non-routine items and also from limited partnerships whose annualized yield was about 13% in the quarter.
To wrap up on our results we had a strong quarter with consolidated core earnings per diluted share up significantly and a 12-month roll-in core earnings ROE of 9.6% both reflecting lower caps strong limited partnership income a few favorable tax and other items partially offset by unfavorable prior year development.
Excluding net unfavorable items from both periods core earnings per diluted share was up 66% over second quarter 2014.
In addition book value per diluted share excluding AOCI also rose up 4% from year end 2014 and 8% from June 30th 2014.
Reflecting net growth in shareholders equity excluding AOCI and the accretive impact of the equity repurchase program.
Outstanding and diluted shares have decreased by 9% since June 30 2014 as a result of the equity repurchase program.
Before turning to Q&amp;A I’d like to wrap up by reviewing our capital management plan.
As announced last night the equity repurchase authorization was increased by 1.6 billion and extended through year end 2016.
This provides us a slightly more than 2 billion of equity repurchase authorization for the balance of 2015 and 2016.
We currently expect to use this amount ratably over the period subject to market conditions and other factors.
Yesterday’s increase brings the total equity repurchase authorization to nearly 4.4 billion for 2014 through 2016.
Debt reduction remains part of our capital management plan as we strive to reduce our rating agency adjusted debt to total capital ratio to the low 20’s over time.
Yesterday we announced that we intend to repay the 2016 debt maturity of 275 million.
As previously stated we intend to repay the 167 million issue that matures in November of this year.
In addition we have 180 million remaining under the current debt management plan which was extended through December 31 2016.
When and how we will utilize that portion will depend on various factors including market conditions.
The increase in the capital management plan will be funded by current holding company funds as well as future dividends from the operating subsidiaries and other sources.
During July we have received about 900 million in dividends for the holding company including 500 million funded by Talcott.
For the remainder of the year we expect approximately 300 million in dividends from subsidiaries for a total of about 1.9 billion for the year unchanged from our February projections.
In 2016 our current outlook is for about 1.9 billion of subsidiary dividends and other cash flows to the holding company including 800 million in dividends from the P&amp;C companies.
Finally recognizing the strong improvement in our P&amp;C group benefits and Mutual Funds earnings the board authorized a 17% increase in the quarterly common dividend to $0.21 a share effective with the October dividend payment.
Including the impact of share repurchases we expect to pay dividends of about 330 million over the next 12 months or about 30% of trailing 12-months consolidated net income excluding Talcott.
Combined with our equity repurchase plan we are clearly delivering a substantial amount of excess capital back to shareholders.
As Chris discussed with our strategic and financial transformation largely complete our priority for excess capital utilization going forward is to find opportunities to invest in our businesses helping to drive premium and earnings growth and expand our capabilities.
We will continue to evaluate capital management options as it remains a good tool that we can use to return excess capital to shareholders in the event that we do not find opportunities that meet our overall objectives.
I will call over to Sabra so we can begin the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Beth.
Before beginning the Q&amp;A session I would like to remind you all that consistent with past practice and company policy we do not comment on market rumors or speculation.
We appreciate your keeping that in mind so the Q&amp;A session can be productive for everyone on the call.
Chris could you please repeat the Q&amp;A instructions? I certainly can.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Beth just wanted to sort of go back just a comment that you made there.
So for 2016 you said the current outlook is 1.9 billion in dividends including 800 million from the sub.
So am I missing something? Where is the other 1.8 billion coming from? Sure Mike.
So as you recall I mentioned that we do anticipate getting $500 million of dividends from Talcott in early 2016.
Yup.
So that would be included.
And we also expect dividends from Group Benefits and Mutual Funds.
And similar to this past year we would expect to have favorable tax receipts at the holding company as well.
And all of that comprises the 1.9 billion that I mentioned.
Got it.
That’s great.
Thanks for that.
And then maybe for Doug can you break out-- is it possible to break out the margin improvement that we saw in both small commercial and Middle Markets.
It can from either the favorable [indiscernible] weather or underlying margin improvement related to comp? Mike let me try to give you a little bit of color.
You’re right.
It was a very good Property quarter and workers’ comp too.
It was about four points in Middle Market and a little bit less than that in small commercial and just in terms of the margin improvement in that line of business.
Okay so those points you mentioned are related to the property and the remainder would then be related to workers’ comp? Those are the two line drivers yes.
Okay.
Okay.
And then in homeowners would it be possible to quantify the - or just give us some marker around the impact of the favorable fire losses on the underlying? I can do that.
You obviously get the CAT numbers and you can see that the CATs are down Q to Q seven points from last year.
The fire losses as I mentioned were down to the lowest level in the last five years.
I think we’re about five to seven points less than the higher years during that five year period.
So I would use as a gauge inside our non-CAT property element.
Okay got it.
Great.
And then the last question I guess on the other agency business obviously premiums there is have declined.
I’m guessing that that’s because of maybe not acceptable levels of profitability.
Can you talk a little bit about kind of what’s happening there in terms of your profitability? And what actions you are taking and seems like the prudent thing to do but just to get an idea where that is relative to your AARP business for example.
Thanks.
Sure.
Mike a few things one is and we’re working all angles of this.
We’re working on tuning our open road product which is our new auto class plan so those tuning requirements continue throughout the country.
We are investing and working hard on our homeowner’s product probably a little bit more going forward than over the last three to four years.
We think Homeowners is an important line relative to our personalized strategy so a lot of work going on in homeowners.
Clearly challenged in the agency space thinking about how we compete and looking for partners that are willing to work with us work on a value prop play.
We have been tuning that segment and will continue to tune.
We do feel good about progress.
Very pleased with our overall return efforts but also want to see if we can get the top line moving in a little bit more positive direction.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
The next question is from John Nadel with Piper Jaffray.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning everybody.
Doug maybe just a quick follow-up.
I understand the following up on Mike’s question about the favorable weather and the impact that that had.
Can you just sort of characterize that for the commercial segment overall as well as for the personal line segment overall? Significant accident year-loss ratio improvement but just wondering what you think the actual underlying sustainable level of improvement really is.
Recognizing you know each quarter can be somewhat volatile.
Yeah John the underlying in small again really across all our commercial businesses on property was probably several points less than sustainable.
That doesn’t mean that we haven’t seen improvement but I would say two to three points.
When I look at our spectrum product in small commercial a couple of points under where we have been the last second quarters of prior years and really the key property business has performed pretty consistently the last couple of years.
So at consistent levels but at solid levels.
I like our loss performance I think both [indiscernible] and CAT are in very good shape but probably a couple of points better than a run rate perspective.
Got it.
Okay.
That is really helpful thanks.
And then maybe a question for you Chris.
I appreciate certainly the improvement that we have seen in the underlying fundamentals the improvement in the balance sheet etc.
and the commentary about seeking opportunities to accelerate growth.
I’m curious because it still appears that there’s a reasonable amount of financial flexibility and conservatism in your updated capital outlook.
And so the question for you is this do you think really buybacks versus potential acquisitions to accelerate growth have to be a mutually exclusive concept or do you believe you have the capacity to pursue both? John thanks for the question.
I wouldn’t exclude one or the other at this point.
I think you have seen our history and track record particularly working to improve our financial position and deliver the firm and obviously reward shareholders with accretive capital management.
So the way we think about is we announced a plan through 2016.
That is our intention.
It is our highest and best use of excess capital but I think what we were trying to signal is a little bit of an inflection point because we feel we’re in a different place.
We’re in a different company today.
And we can be a little bit more offensive minded about opportunities in the marketplace.
Totally appreciate that.
And I guess just a quick follow-up along those lines Chris.
Any specific areas within P&amp;C or even on the Group insurance side that you feel like are areas where you want to expand where you want to be able to find that faster pace of growth where you maybe lack some scale today? John I think we think about opportunities across all our businesses.
I mean you mentioned a couple but in Commercial you really think about two main themes.
If you’ve heard Doug and I and Beth continually talking about adding product and underwriting capabilities to the platform being a deeper and broader risk player.
That’s really what we mean in growing our future capabilities and industry verticals.
So we think of specialty in that area.
We think in terms of larger parts of the U.S.
economy maybe we haven’t participated as deeply as I think we can or should.
Okay.
You referenced and you heard Doug talk about marine construction real estate infrastructure related.
Those are the types of things we talk about as far as the real economy and expanding.
And along with our geographic penetration and focus.
So anything along those lines in Commercial would be very intriguing to us.
And you mentioned Group Benefits.
If I really look at our platform I would say we gear it more towards a national or large account platform.
Very balanced LTD STD and Life business.
About 50% of premiums in each of those categories.
So if there were opportunities in the small and medium case segments and folks that potentially could accelerate the pace of our voluntary sales growth those are the things we would think about there.
Okay.
And then lastly in Personal Lines.
Look we don’t aspire to be a broad market player but we think we have unique skills and capabilities in direct marketing in sort of those niche areas.
And we think in those terms John if there were opportunities to use our brand and direct marketing skills in our wonderful claim skills.
So that’s just to give you a little bit more of a flavor.
I really appreciate the color.
Thanks very much Chris.
John just a last point there.
I think in all of this and hopefully you of all people know and others is that we continue to be very thoughtful.
I would say disciplined and deliberate in this area.
Just knowing where we’re coming from and how we want to use shareholders’ capital in the most prudent fashion going forward.
But we did signal a change this quarter.
Yeah no question Chris.
I have a lot of confidence.
So thank you.
The next question is from Meyer Shields of KBW.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Two quick questions I think for Doug.
One within the overall 3% standard commercial rate increases is there a difference between the property and liability lines? Meyer all the lines do have their own nuances to them.
As I mentioned Auto is right now achieving more rate across Commercial than other lines.
So that’s the lead line.
Workers’ compensation has been a bit more under pressure over the last couple of quarters.
And even between small and middle there are nuances.
So yes very different dynamics across the lines.
But in general pleased we still see rational competition.
Maybe a bit more pressure but I am very pleased about what we put up this second quarter and feel good about our efforts first half of the year.
Okay.
And can you talk a little bit about the adverse developments in Commercial besides the asbestos environmental in terms of what was going on there? I will take that.
This is Beth.
We had very modest adverse development excluding A&amp;E.
We had some favorable development in our workers’ comp lines which is offset a little bit by unfavorable development as it relates to the discount on workers’ comp reserve which reflects the fact that as we’ve been settling claims at a faster pace the amount of actual discount that you have in the reserve changes.
And then the other aspects were really just small puts and takes across the various lines.
Really nothing that is worthy of calling out.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thanks so much.
The next question is from Brian Meredith with UBS.
Your line is open.
Yeah good morning Chris.
I’m just wondering can you talk a little more about when you are evaluating financial acquisitions kind of the financial benchmarks that you are going to be looking at? Be it IRR’s return invested capital how it relates to share buyback and those types of things? Tangible book value dilution.
Brian yeah happy to.
I think a couple points.
One first any acquisition opportunity first needs to be strategic and financially compelling to make sense.
I think second we also think about it when we talk internally of the comparison to building organically because largely what we have been doing is an organic focus.
So an acquisition needs to be weighed generally in terms with an organic build.
And those organic builds require an investment requires timelines obviously patience because it won’t happen overnight.
So you sort of weigh all that to sort of see would an acquisition opportunity really accelerate our growth and make sense.
I think also too really since our transformation we really driven down our cost of equity capital reduced our leverage improved our valuation.
So I think today we have greater flexibility to think about acquisitions.
And ultimately we view it as a ROI or IOR type of analysis where it needs to add value over a longer period of time and exceed our cost of equity capital today or else we won’t do it.
And I think from there then the historical metrics of EPS and book value per share will emerge in the accounting records that I think then will create value over a longer period of time for shareholders.
So as I said to John we continue to be very thoughtful disciplined and deliberate in this area.
So that’s how we’re thinking.
And do you relate it all to share buyback and thoughts on return share buyback versus M&amp;A organic growth? It’s part of the overall equation but again from a strategic side when we’re trying to grow our capabilities and grow our earnings that also needs to be weighed in because by itself share buybacks don’t increase the nominal dollars of earnings going forward.
So but we do weigh that all very carefully Brian.
Great.
Thanks.
And then just one quick follow-up for Doug.
The investment spend that you’ve been doing the last couple of years system build-out (audio breaks up) those types of things where do we stand in that kind of process as far as expenses and how much longer do you think it’s going to be a drag on the expense ratio? Brian when I think about our invest I think about it over a longer period of time.
So I don’t think about it in spurts of quarters.
This is a long-term process.
I know we shared quite a bit of that progress in Charlotte with the investor day in June.
We’ve got some of those invests going on in Middle.
Yes a little bit of pressure on the expense ratio but I look back at where we are in kind of our quarterly expense and our annual expense targets and I think about what’s happening through the bottom line in our margins.
I’m comfortable with those invests and actually see them over a longer period of time than I do over just 2015 or 2016.
Great.
Thank you.
Brian it’s Chris.
I think just another thing you need to think in terms of is and I’m not sure where the industry stands in totality.
All I can speak from is our company but we really do need to modernize our tools capabilities infrastructure digital content and as Doug said this isn’t a simple one and done over the next 12 to 18 months here.
This is a commitment to fundamentally improve our customer facing exchanges interfaces for the long term.
So we’re going to be disciplined about expense management but on the invest side we’re over clubbing to really improve our capabilities in this area.
So I think we are balancing the best way we can in this dynamics but make no mistake about it we’re committed to fundamentally improving our infrastructure and capabilities to improve our customer experiences.
Great.
Thank you.
The next question is from Erik Bass of Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thank you.
In Group Benefits you continue to have nice growth momentum.
So I was just hoping you could talk a little bit more about the competitive dynamics in the market and how much of your growth is coming from new products and your expanded voluntary product set.
Erik hi this is Doug.
A couple of thoughts about it.
Really we had a terrific start to 2015 so we’re encouraged about that progress and really feel like we have priced our way through the challenges of two or three years ago so that is in the rear-view mirror.
As I look ahead there are strong competitors around us but I feel good about our ability to earn our way into the finals and we’ve won our share.
Inside our new sales there’s a positive story both on new customer but there also is a positive story on growing inside our current customers with at issue sales in addition to where we were last year with that current customer.
So that’s point number two.
And then lastly voluntary has been an important part of our strategic grow these last couple of years particularly just getting the product ready to meet the street.
I think we feel good that we were able to work those 11-15 and now into 15 with the accounts with our abilities in the voluntary area.
It is slow it’s probably a little slower than Chris and I thought it might be.
As we finish the year our sales probably in the voluntary area will be just in the GAAP product area probably under 10 million for the year but what’s important is that we’re able to be at the table with customers that demand that as part of their suite.
And I think we’re there today and a couple of years ago I was not able to say that.
Thank you.
And then just a quick one for Beth.
You mentioned that you still expect to pay a 500 million dividend from Talcott in early 2016 which I believe in the past you’ve said doesn’t include 2015 statutory earnings.
So given the pretty strong results you’ve seen in Talcott so far in 2015 is there a potential to take either an upsized dividend or an additional dividend from Talcott in 2016? Yes so that is correct.
I have only included the 500 million that we’ve previously talked about.
As it relates to 2015 I think what we’ve always said is we want to see how 2015 year actually ends.
Through six months in June Talcott first rate [ph] surplus is actually relatively flat once you adjust for dividends and so what we really need to see is where we end the year.
Right now we would anticipate that we would generate statutory surplus still in that 200 to 300 range but as we said previously kind of at the lower end of that range.
But it really is going to be a function of just where interest rates land at the end of the year and how that potentially impacts reserves that we have to set.
So until we end the year we’ll evaluate where the statutory surplus is and there could then be potential but we’re not putting that into our projections at this point.
Got it.
Thank you.
The next question is from Tom Gallagher of Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Chris just to start out I just want to get a sense for the way you’re thinking about potential M&amp;A.
Would you contemplate transformative M&amp;A or are we talking about more modest opportunities as ways of deploying excess capital? Tom thanks.
I would say I think our current thinking right now is more modest adding to capabilities and product lines.
And I made a point to be clear we’re a U.S.-focused company and organization right now.
So I assume if you were talking about transformative you were thinking maybe beyond our borders but our intent is I think we have opportunities to capture more market share with expanded products and capabilities in our U.S.
territories.
But also be sensitive to maybe following U.S.
customers abroad with some of their skills.
But we don’t think about building international local market expansion currently.
Okay.
That is helpful.
And then I just want to be clear here that the current buyback authorization is that going to be competing with M&amp;A when you contemplate what you’ve announced so far? So in other words if you found attractive deals that could consume some of the buybacks or do you have additional resources or excess capital that’s actually slotted for M&amp;A? Tom it’s a balancing act.
I wouldn’t say it’s competing.
That’s our plan that is our intention that’s what we think is the highest and best use.
And if there’s alternatives that come along we’ll put that as far as the overall equation.
But I think you know myself and Beth we are appropriately prudent in managing the balance sheet and always have flexibility in mind.
Okay.
And I guess either Chris or Beth just to be clear though your current capital plan doesn’t necessarily allocate some additional capital buffer for M&amp;A or am I - can you comment on that at all whether there’s something in that plan through 2016 that is allocating something that you’re now holding on to for M&amp;A or anyway can you comment on that? Yeah Tom and Beth can add her point of view.
Again how we think about it and maybe others have talked about it too is we said the deal needs to be strategic and make financial sense.
And if we find something that from an acquisition side hits those hurdles and makes our ROI’s work we’ll figure out how to finance it.
And so I said earlier we’ve reduced our leverage and will continue to reduce it but we do have flexibility to figure out how we would I’ll call it fund or finance a deal if we found the right one.
So that’s all I would say at this point.
Okay.
Thanks.
The next question is from Randy Binner with FBR Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
You all discussed the A&amp;E resolution market a little bit in your comments.
Do you have any update on the annuity risk transfer market? From our perspective it seems active.
And so would be interested in any update you have on that market or should we think of Talcott as continuing to be internally managed resolution? Randy it’s Chris.
Beth can add her point of view also but I think right now we’re very pleased sort of with the runoff in total of Talcott.
And particularly the capital that we’ve taken out.
I remind you we’ve take a billion out this year and we plan as Beth said to take 500 million out in early 2016.
So we understand the risk.
It’s well managed.
It’s well contained from our perspective.
And as Beth might comment upon we do really believe in this low interest rate environment.
That does depress valuation.
So these are all the things that we consider in sort of a transact versus a continued runoff mode.
But Beth what would you add? Yeah I think Chris as always I think you’ve captured it very well.
Yeah.
I think it’s very consistent with what we’ve talked about in the past.
And we are always open to the consideration of transactions but at the end of the day needs to make economic sense for us and where we sit today with the capital that we’re able to extract.
And as Chris said to manage the risk in that book we feel very comfortable.
But of course we’ll always be open to other considerations as markets change.
Great.
And then the follow-up there is just on the withdrawals which in the kind of the 12% 11% year-over-year basis is good.
And I think that’s kind of as some of your programs that increase surrenders are winding down.
Do you have any plans to kind of continue to push new programs there to continue to accelerate the wind down of those liabilities? Yes as we’ve said in the past we’ll always consider other policyholder type initiatives that could further reduce the exposure and that book of business.
We’ve been very pleased with those that we’ve had in the past.
As I’ve said pretty consistently is our thought process is to really be very targeted as we look at those initiatives.
So we don’t have one right now in place.
There is a team that consistently evaluates those to see if there’s something that could be done.
But overall when we look at the continued reduction in the contract counts we feel very good with the activity we’re seeing.
And those have been well received those plans by agents and clients? There’s been no real push back is right? Yeah I mean I think the results speak for themselves and what we’ve been able to achieve with those programs.
Again we’ve always said they’re not right for everyone and that’s why policyholders have a choice.
But as we said we’ve been pleased with the results that we’ve been able to achieve on both the programs we’ve had in the variable annuity and the fixed annuity space.
All right.
Great.
Thanks so much.
The next question is from Scott Frost with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Okay thank you.
From the debt side appreciate the clarity in communicating your debt management goals.
Thank you for that.
But wanted to talk briefly about your junior sub issues as you may have expected.
It’s topical in our world.
First with respect to the 8 and 8’s and then to the Glenn Meadows how would you characterize the efficiency of each of these instruments in your capital stack? And I have a brief follow-up.
Okay.
Thanks for the question.
So again as we’ve been talking about in the past we are focused on reducing our overall rating agency adjusted debt to capitalization ratios also focused on things like coverage rates and so forth.
And so we really look at our capital our debt structure sort of across the spectrum.
And today as we sit here I think that the eight teams do provide us benefit in that we do get equity credit as we look at managing that ratio.
And overtime we’ll continue to evaluate the debt stack keeping all those factors in mind but no change in our views as to how we think about those.
Okay.
And just specifically for the Glenn Meadows is it your understanding that this issue will continue to receive favorable capital treatment from NRS or Rose at the float date in 2017? Yes we do not expect any change in how those would be considered.
Thank you very much.
The next question is from Jamminder Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Hi Good morning.
Most of my questions were answered but I had one for Doug.
Overall I thought the results were pretty strong but you did have weak premium growth in the non-AARP agency channels.
Just wondering what is driving that and what are you doing to turn that around? What your expectations are for that channel? So that part of the challenge in our personal lines area is not new to the quarter.
So we have had pressure in there.
We see lots of competition.
There are lots of names that continue to compete in that space.
I’m very encouraged.
I like where our team is headed.
You know we have made a couple of very important additions in the last ninety day so I feel good about that and I think we will be talking more about strategy through the next couple of quarters particularly in that personal lines area.
The next question is from Bob Glasspiegel with Janney.
Your line is open.
Good morning Hartford.
It seems like there is a lot of deals going on right now in the marketplace and I have never seen the Property Casualty world undergo more changes than we’re seeing today and the glass half full is just going to create opportunities and as there this is eruption in competitors.
The glass half empty perspective would be maybe you need to rethink where you are as far as scale tax structure technology efficiency etc.
Where do you see Hartford in this world and I am sure you’re going to take the glass half full preference but maybe respond to the negative issues that some might suggest are popping up? Bob it’s Chris.
I think you outline some good points.
We think about it generally as we are entering a very dynamic cycle and that really every company including our own needs to think about competitive advantages.
There is really a couple of drivers that we see.
One not all the industry participants have really enjoyed the price increases that we and others have had over the last three years and pushed so hard to maintain.
Generally lower economic growth and continued low interest rates is really has a compounding effect on companies balance sheets and ability to investment in new technology and capabilities while producing good financial results.
Alternative capital is just obviously disrupting some of the reinsurance base and it’s got the potential to creep into other aspects of the market.
And then very important for I think for all of us is that distribution in our agents and broker partners are really going through their own form of industry consolidations which ultimately means in my judgment that fewer carriers are going to be on panels.
And brokers and agent will continue to look for those companies that have the most to offer for their clients.
So I think the table stakes are higher to sort of meet the requirements of today.
Ultimately as a national company Bob with a lot of great strengths brand reputation capabilities new energy and vigor around it.
I’m very optimistic of our ability to continue to compete and have competitive advantage to drive shareholder value going forward.
So it’s probably not any one of those things.
It’s probably all of it that we’re trying to-- I’ll call it manage for outcomes that we think are best for our shareholders and ultimately our employees and customers.
That’s a very fair answer.
Is the pivot to M&amp;A recognition that scale is going to be increasingly important and you need more volume to do the technology spend that you are signaling is necessary? Yeah I would say in and by itself scale is not a driver.
If you really look at our words and really what we’ve talked about here is adding new capabilities that we don’t have today or areas of the market-- the risk taking market.
We’d like to participate more in.
I’m sorry I think that is more of an immediate focus but you make a good point.
Scale helps out too.
Obviously from an expense and efficiency side.
And if you look at at least one big deal that happened in New Jersey not too long ago.
I mean and we really think it in terms of it will over a longer period of time be a very compelling transaction that drives down unit costs has greater tax efficiency has a greater capital base to potentially take on risk.
So those are all the things that we’re very well off..
But we also know what we’re focused on and particularly our segments of the market that we think we have great competitive advantage in.
Fair answers.
Thank you.
Thanks Bob.
There are no further questions at this time.
Thank you Chris.
I’d like to thank you all for joining us today and for your interest in The Hartford.
Also want to note that Beth Bombara will be attending the KBW insurance conference on September 9th and we hope to see you all there.
If you have any follow up questions please don’t hesitate to contact either Sean or myself today by phone or email.
Thank you and so long.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Ian and I’ll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Hartford Third Quarter 2015 Financial Results Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Sabra Purtill Head of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning.
And welcome to The Hartford’s webcast for third quarter 2015 financial results.
Our third quarter financial results news release investor financial supplement presentation and 10-Q were all released yesterday afternoon and are posted on our website.
Our speakers today include Chris Swift Chairman and CEO of The Hartford; Doug Elliot President; and Beth Bombara CFO.
Following their prepared remarks we will have about 30 minutes for Q&amp;A.
Just a few notes before Chris begins today’s call includes forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results could be materially different.
We do not assume any obligation to update forward looking statements and investors should consider the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from these statements.
A detailed description of those risks and uncertainties can be found in our SEC filings which are also available on our website.
Our presentation today also includes several non-GAAP financial measures.
Explanations and reconciliations of these measures to the comparable GAAP measure are included in our SEC filings as well as in the news release and financial supplement.
I’ll now turn the call over to Chris.
Thank you Sabra.
Good morning everyone.
Last night we announced our financial results for the third quarter.
While we delivered strong underlying performance in our commercial lines and group benefit businesses we did experienced some headwinds in several areas resulting in a decrease in core earnings lower net investment income prior year development in commercial lines and higher cats and loss costs in personal lines were the primary contributors to a 19% decline in core earnings per diluted share.
Net investment income was down 10% compared to the third quarter of last year.
This decline is mainly due to hedge fund performance in the quarter.
However year-to-date results remain ahead of our outlook for alternative investments in aggregate.
We also had some notable achievements including increase in 12 months core earnings return on equity to 9.1% and growing book value per diluted share by 8%.
In mutual funds net flows year-to-date were at the highest level we’ve seen since 2010 and in Talcott our execution remains steady where we continue to successfully manage the risk of the book and return capital to the holding company for more creative uses.
Doug and Beth will cover operating results in more detail.
I wanted to share a few thoughts on our results.
In commercial lines the underlying combined ratio excluding cats and prior-year development improved 1 point over prior year.
This result was driven by small commercial and specialty commercial which delivered underlying combined ratios of 86.8 and 99.1 respectively or better than prior year.
The underlying results in middle-market were steady versus last year.
However prior-year development in general liability and commercial auto contributed to the deterioration in the total combined ratio.
Personal lines cat losses were elevated versus prior year although below our expectations.
We saw and reacted to recent signs of increased auto frequency which impacted our combined ratio.
We also experienced elevated non-cat property losses compared to the prior year.
This business is always required that we actively utilize data and analytics to monitor trends and make adjustments and that is exactly what we're doing.
Group benefits delivered another strong quarter with core earnings margin of 5.5% improving a full point from prior year.
The year-to-date margin of 5.9 is the best we've seen since 2008.
In addition the group benefits team recently signed a renewal rights agreement for AIG’s under 100 lives employer segment which aligns with our objective to grow in the small and middle-market areas.
Looking ahead we are focused on executing on our strategy even as we face a more competitive and dynamic industry environment.
We share some examples of these efforts.
Relative to distribution in commercial P&amp;C we are on track to meet our goal of adding sales and underwriting talent in targeted geographies like the West and Midwest regions which will help us be more responsive to customer needs.
In group benefits we increased the number of sales representatives in the under 500 lives employer segment to complement our national account segment.
The goal is to have a more balanced portfolio of small to midsized accounts while maintaining our strength in national accounts and early results of these efforts are encouraging.
In early October Doug and I went with a number of our senior leaders attended the Annual CIB Conference where we met with more than 80 of our industries top agents and brokers.
These discussions confirm that the work we have been doing to expand our product offerings and risk appetite is beginning to pay off.
The feedback we received also affirms our view that The Hartford has strong and growing momentum with many of these organizations which will serve as well on our strategic journey.
Talented people are the engine behind The Hartford success.
I am especially proud of a care and commitment our employees show towards customers in their time of need.
During the recent wildfires in California our claims teams were able to quickly inspect 100% of claims meet in person with all impacted customers and get them into temporary housing no small feat considering the impact of these fires.
This is exactly the kind of claims service that differentiates us and earns The Hartford a 4.8 out of 5 Star ratings with our customers.
Before turning the call over to Doug I want to emphasize that while we had some challenges in the quarter I am pleased with the progress The Hartford has made during the year.
Our year-to-date results reflect a 17% increase in core earnings per diluted share over the prior year and we are focused on finishing the year strong.
I am confident that we have the right people capabilities and underwriting discipline to succeed even in an increasingly competitive marketplace as we remain focused on delivering shareholder value by increasing ROE and book value per share.
Now let me turn the call over to Doug.
Doug? Thank you Chris and good morning.
I am going to provide additional details on the operating results of our Property and Casualty and Group Benefits business units but first let me begin with the few observations about the market.
The competitive landscape in Commercial Lines and Group Benefits is slightly more pressured than we experienced over the last four quarters.
Markets remain largely rational but there are more clear signs of aggressive new business pricing with some loosening of terms and conditions particularly in commercial property.
We continue to find opportunities to acquire adequately priced new business while remaining disciplined in our risk selection approach mainly through more intense sales execution in our local markets with agents and brokers.
In Personal Lines competition is generally consistent with prior quarters.
We continue to see opportunity for growth in the direct channel and with our differentiated AARP agency offering.
Price competition in the traditional agency channel remains the norm driven by competitive raters.
Third quarter core earnings in Commercial Lines was $216 million with the combined ratio of 94.5.
This was an earnings decrease of $52 million versus third quarter 2014 primarily driven by adverse prior period development in commercial auto and lower net investment income.
The underlying combined ratio excluding catastrophes and prior period development was 91 improving 1 point from third quarter 2014 largely driven by continued margin expansion in workers' compensation.
This improvement reflects the solid foundation we built in recent years across our commercial businesses through rigorous underwriting and pricing discipline.
Renewal written pricing in standard commercial lines was 2% for the quarter down 1% from second quarter 2015 and 2 points from third quarter last year.
Commercial auto continues to achieve high-single-digit price increases as we and the industry address weak returns in the line.
Pricing in other lines is more competitive particularly middle market.
In Small Commercial written premium grew 4% in the quarter.
Strong policy retention has continued providing a nice tailwind as new business was up more modestly at 2%.
The underlying combined ratio was 86.8 improving seven-tenths of a point from a year ago due to better workers' compensation margins and favorable non-cat property losses.
We continue to work on distribution initiatives with our agency partners to drive new business growth.
Although the market is competitive our business model is performing well and we see the opportunity to deploy our capabilities to gain market share.
In middle market we posted a somewhat mixed quarter with an underlying combined ratio of 93.8 three-tenths higher than third quarter 2014.
However the overall combined ratio was 102.5 8.8 points higher than last year due to adverse prior period development primarily in general liability and commercial auto.
The development in general liability was driven by a large loss in older accident years.
In commercial auto we continue to see increased severity on a relatively small number of losses mainly from accident years 2010 to 2013.
In several of these claims there has been a pattern of significant build up in medical costs without ongoing notification to us.
It’s important to note that our reserving estimates assumed that these trends will processed into more accident years as well but that certainly does not reflect the intensity of our actions to improve performance in the line.
We have been working throughout the year to improve claim product and underwriting execution and thereby better manage outcomes on the current accident year.
This includes implementing new underwriting tools and guidelines that we expect to reduce our exposure to these high severity risk profiles for both new and renewal business.
And we continue to increase rates and improve our pricing segmentation to better address loss cost trends.
We believe that we have begun to mitigate these trends in the current accident year but will only make that call as the data develops.
Moving to the topline in middle market our metrics continue to show that we are making effective decisions to retain well-priced business and acquiring new business when meeting our underwriting and rate adequacy thresholds.
Written premium growth was 2% driven by strong renewals in marine new business growth in large property and construction and pricing increases in commercial auto.
We remain committed to improving and expanding our non-workers' compensation lines recognizing that we must be thoughtful on our approach given recent market conditions.
In Specialty Commercial the underlying combined ratio was 99.1 versus 105.1 in the prior year.
The 6 point improvement was driven by better loss performance in Bond and Financial Products.
Last year Bond’s accident year losses included a large loss while this year has returned to our historical performance.
Topline growth for Specialty was 7% driven mainly by strong account retention and renewal premium in national accounts and to a lesser extent auto premium adjustments.
In Personal Lines core earning was $70 million for the quarter versus $71 million last year.
Of the $54 million decrease $23 million was due to higher catastrophe losses versus third quarter 2014.
Our total catastrophe losses this quarter were below our expectation.
However third quarter of last year was even more favorable resulting in a challenging year-over-year comparison.
Our most significant events this quarter were the California wildfires which resulted in $56 million of pretax losses the underlying combined ratio of 95.6 deteriorated 4.7 points from last year driven by increases in auto frequency non-cat homeowner losses and marketing expenses.
Let me provide more detail on each of those items.
First auto frequency increased 3% in the quarter after several quarters of flat to negative indications.
We had anticipated some increase in our frequency this quarter known that we had a very favorable frequency change in third quarter 2014.
On a trailing 12 month basis our frequency change is below 1%.
There have been quite a few broad-based data observations such as lower gas prices improving employment conditions and increased miles driven that point to roads being more congested.
It is very difficult to correlate this information with our specific book of business which we generally find to be less susceptible to these factors due to our weighting towards majeure drivers.
However we all travel the same roads and our customers are not completely insulated from these conditions.
As a result we have reflected a slight increase in frequency with our loss estimates and pricing assumptions.
The months ahead will provide more data and we will continue to adapt our pricing and marketing strategy accordingly.
Second this quarter we start increasing non-cat homeowner losses primarily from fires and water damage although partially offset by favorable weather losses.
These types of losses tend to be uneven from quarter-to-quarter.
Recall that fire losses in the second quarter of 2015 were at their lowest level in seven years.
We’ve examined the loss profiles and at this point have not seen any particular patterns in our data.
And finally direct marketing spend is up this quarter versus third quarter 2014.
AARP Direct auto has continued to perform well and we've been planning for increased acquisition efforts in the back half of this year to take advantage of our recent product improvements.
We are especially focused on driving online activity through our contact centers where our sales teams provide outstanding counseling services have demonstrated the ability to convert prospects to customers.
Total written premium for the quarter grew 1% including 4% growth in AARP Direct and 8% growth in AARP Agency.
In other agency written premium was down 10% versus the third quarter of 2014.
Our efforts engaged with highly partnered agents who value the differentiated products and services we offer are continuing.
Shifting over to Group Benefits core earnings in the third quarter was $47 million up 24% over the same period in 2014 achieving a core earnings margin of 5.5%.
The increase is primarily attributable to topline growth and a lower disability loss ratio compared to prior year.
Earned premiums excluding association financial institutions was up 3% in the quarter driven by growth in our employer group life and disability lines.
For the quarter fully insured ongoing sales was up 7% to $61 million.
In addition our employer group business continues to maintain strong book persistency around 90% on a year-to-date basis.
We are having success in competitive markets.
Our flow of new business opportunities is strong and we are working in a discipline yet aggressive manner to win new accounts.
Long-term disability continues to be the most competitive line despite having underperformed across much of the industry in recent years.
Our disability book of business is performing well following several years of underwriting and pricing actions and we are maintaining our steady course.
Our Group Benefits value proposition has been significantly enhanced over the last several years with improvements to our service and claims experience and the addition of a robust voluntary platform.
We are well-positioned to expand this business and are confident that we have build momentum across our target markets.
With that let me conclude my comments.
This is a quarter where we experienced some volatility across our auto and property lines and we are very focused on taking appropriate actions to strengthen performance in these areas.
We continued to invest in product expansion deepen our distribution capabilities and deliver outstanding service to our customers.
Markets are competitive and we're responding with discipline and focus to stay on track with both near-term actions and our long-term strategic objectives.
Let me now turn the call over to Beth.
Thank you Doug.
I'm going to briefly cover the other segments the investment portfolio and our capital management actions before we turn the call over for questions.
Mutual Funds core earnings were flat with the prior year quarter as lower fee income due to the decrease in market levels from June 30th was largely offset by lower distribution and other operating expenses.
Total AUM was down about 5% from September 30th last year mostly due to Talcott related AUM runoff.
Excluding Talcott AUM declined 2% due to the market decline this quarter.
Fund performance remains solid with 58% of all Mutual Funds and 74% of the equity funds outperforming peers over the last five years helping to improve net flows to a positive $307 million for the quarter and almost $1.1 billion year-to-date.
Talcott posted stronger-than-expected core earnings of a $107 million but down from a $122 million last year due to decreased fees and investment income partially offset by lower expenses.
The decrease in fees reflects the continued runoff in Talcott with an 11% decrease in variable annuity contract count over the last year.
Investment income was impacted by several factors the largest item being lower limited partnership income which was partially offset by higher bond calls and make-whole premiums than last year.
In addition Talcott’s operating expenses and costs for contractholder initiatives were lower than the prior year.
As I mentioned last quarter Talcott paid a dividend of $500 million in July in addition to the $500 million dividend paid in February.
We expect to pay another $500 million dividend to the holding company in early 2016.
Corporate segment third quarter 2015 core losses of $63 million were up slightly from $58 million in 2014 which included a $7 million insurance recovery.
Excluding this benefit core losses continue to decline due to lower interest expense as a result of debt repayments over the last year.
Turning to investments the credit performance of our portfolio remains strong although impairments rose slightly to $40 million before tax from $15 million in the third quarter of 2014.
About half of the impairments resulted from the decision to sell some lower credit quality securities in the high-yield and emerging market portfolios.
Our annualized portfolio yield excluding limited partnership was 4.2% in the quarter up slightly from 4.1% in both second quarter 2015 and third quarter 2014.
Our consolidated portfolio yield held up well despite the headwind from low interest rates as the impact of lower reinvestment rates was partially offset by the benefit of make-whole call premium and bonds prepayment penalties and mortgages and other non-routine items.
These non-routine items which are largely correlated to the continued low interest rate environment increased the year-to-date investment yield by about 10 basis points.
Excluding these items and limited partnership our year-to-date annualized portfolio yield was 4% down about 10 basis points from a year ago.
The P&amp;C portfolio also is experiencing a similar pattern declining this quarter to an annualized yield of 3.7% excluding limited partnerships.
And it did not benefit from non-routine items to the same degree as the Talcott portfolio.
Although P&amp;C new money yields averaged 3.8% due to wider credit spreads we continue to expect low reinvestment rates to pressure P&amp;C in consolidated portfolio yield.
As Chris mentioned lower limited partnership returns negatively impacted our results particularly in Commercial Lines and Talcott.
This portfolio had an annualized return of 3% this quarter.
The year-to-date return is 10% still well above our 6% outlook.
This portfolio which totals about $3 billion is roughly 60% private equity and real estate partnerships which have earned about 18% year-to-date and 40% hedge funds which were negative in the quarter and year-to-date.
Hedge fund performance was adversely affected by the global decline in equity markets and volatility in currencies Looking at the fourth quarter we can’t accurately predict hedge fund performance because of their idiosyncratic nature.
However we do have some early visibility into real estate and private equity partnership returns which are reported on a one-quarter lag.
So far we expect fourth quarter real estate and private equity income to decline from the strong recent performance as the valuations will be impacted by the third quarter decline in equity markets.
Considering this we currently estimate that fourth quarter limited partnership and other alternative investment income will be lower than the third quarter 2015 actual results.
We've always expected limited partnerships to have more volatile returns than the rest of the general account and we have sized them accordingly.
We also expect returns in the portfolio to be higher overtime to compensate for this volatility which we certainly have seen over the past several years.
Turning to our capital management program.
As you know we increased our equity repurchase authorization in July.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately 6.5 million shares for $300 million.
In addition since the end of the quarter through October 23rd we repurchased an additional 2 million shares for $94 million leaving roughly $1.7 billion remaining under the equity repurchase authorization that expires at year-end 2016.
In addition as a reminder we intend to repay an outstanding $167 million debt maturity in November.
I would note that our rating agency debt to total capital ratio was approximately 26.9% at the end of September down from 28% at year-end.
September 30 2015 book value per diluted share excluding AOCI rose to $42.99 up 6% from year-end 2014 and 8% from September 30 2014 reflecting positive net income after dividend to shareholders and the accretive impact of the equity repurchase program.
To summarize core earnings totaled $360 million for the quarter or $0.86 per diluted share.
Even with some of the challenges we experienced in the quarter we did improve core earnings ROE and grow book value per share.
Over the last 12 months we've achieved a core earnings ROE of 9.1% compared with 8.2% at third quarter 2014 in the range of 8.7% to 9.2% provided to you at the beginning of the year.
In addition our year-to-date core earnings of $2.81 per diluted share up 17% from 2014.
I will now turn the call over to Sabra so we can begin the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Beth.
First of all to those of you listening on the webcast I will apologize for some of the sound interference that you are getting.
I just want to remind you all that the replay of the call will be available.
There is also a transcript however given the irritation of the skipping what I want to do is repeat the dial-in number.
So that you can hear the Q&amp;A session clearly.
So for the dial-in it’s area code 877-685-7362.
For those international it’s area code 937-999-2389 and the conference ID is 50576163.
And I repeat it’s 50576163.
If you dial those numbers you should be admitted automatically to the call and again the dial-in is 877-685-7362.
Just a reminder to those of you who are on the call right now that we request that you limit yourself to two questions after which you're welcome to re-queue for additional questions.
We appreciate your hearing to this so that we can have as many people as possible ask their questions on the call.
Ian could you please repeat the instructions for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Brian Meredith.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Thank you.
A couple questions.
First can you just dive into whole frequency situation just a little bit more here.
Perhaps you can give us some more color on kind of maybe state that is coming from.
Is more of it coming from AARP versus the other agency? Is it balanced? Anything that you're seeing? Brian this is Doug.
Let me start out by saying clearly July and August were little heavier on the frequency side than September.
So we think some of that is attributed to summer travel and we’re very interested how October will play out.
So very important transit there on the top.
There is obviously a state dynamic.
If you look at miles driven that DOT is shared.
There clearly is a West Coast and across the South dynamic of more miles driven over the 2015.
We’re feeling some of that in our state-by-state analysis.
Next point I would share is that as we look at the top 10 states from a Personal Lines liability perspective essentially we were in line with market share.
So we’re not overlined in any of the bigger states that are driving some of this frequency change namely California.
We’re aware of those states where we are and our work continues.
So as I look at this dynamic we had very favorable rolling 12 frequency changes over the past couple years.
We have seen a little bit activity certainly into the third quarter.
We reacted to it in our financials.
We’ll stay on top of our trends into October November.
And we’re going to make sure that our pricing analytics are correlated with the trend you're seeing in our loss analysis.
Hey Brian it’s Chris.
Let me just add a larger context that you guys jump into it right away.
The AARP relationship has been a wonderful 30-year relationship for us and it’s very strategically important.
And we pride ourselves on working together with them some of their members and have coordinated strategies and outlooks so that 80% of our Personal Lines book is AARP whether it be direct or agent.
And it’s -- over longer period of time has performed very well.
So that when Doug refers to increases in frequencies you got to think in terms of a lower different base than sort of a larger mass market in your Personal Lines company.
So as much as we reacted to it there is a basis difference that our book is still relatively outperforming with lower frequencies from what we could tell at this point in time.
Got it.
Thanks.
And then my next question one of you can just dive in little bit more into the commercial auto adverse development.
What are you’ll doing right now to make sure that that’s going to continue here going forward.
It’s kind of been almost a quarterly event that we've seen recently? Brian again this is Doug.
So what we've seen most recently is some pressure between months 24 and 42 in our triangles.
And as I mentioned in my commentary primarily in years 2010 to ‘13 so we’re seeing late emergence of medical information as these claims are unfolding over the couple years.
Couple things are happening.
One is that inside our claim operation we’re looking at diagnostics that will try to get our arms around those claims as quickly as possible.
I gave an example on the call moments ago.
Sometimes we don’t get these till late into their life but we are looking at our claim practices and wondering whether we can make adjustments there.
And more importantly inside our underwriting we are buckling down and making sure we’ve got all the disciplines around driver behavior past driver behavior and we’re looking at new class plan tweaks et cetera.
So were working both ends of this kind of like we have put our arms around the issue and something that although has been frustrating I feel like we’re on top of it.
So you’re not seeing any increase in frequency in the commercial auto space necessarily? No this has not been a frequency issue.
It’s more in the severity side for sure.
Brian? Yeah.
Again just a context.
This is primarily a middle-market phenomena.
Our middle-market premium is little over $200 million on an annualized basis.
So it's irritant as we feel and -- but we’re trying to work through the best we can as Doug said.
I think the other context too is just the larger balance sheet.
And you know we’re one of a few companies that has disclosed our carried reserves in excess of our actuarial point estimates and at year-end ‘14 it was about 3.5%.
We continue to grow that here in ‘15.
So it’s just a little minor irritant in relation to the larger reserve positions that we have for adverse deviations in the future.
We’re very satisfied with particularly as continuing to grow those positions here in ‘15.
Brian I guess the last point I’ll just add over the top is as you know we continue to drive rate into that book of business right.
So I’ve given you underwriting claim access but we’re not forgetting about the need for rate to deal with that increased severity.
Great.
Thank you.
Operator we’re ready for the next question.
You next question comes from Michael Nannizzi.
I apologize from Gary -- Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Can you hear me? Yes we can Michael.
Hello.
Great.
Doug can we dig a little bit more into the auto -- the auto underlying combined deterioration year-over-year? Can you quantify it looks like the expense ratio was higher? We can’t really see that breakdown at the product level.
Can you just help us understand like what the breakout between the expense ratio and this frequency deterioration wise? Sure Mike.
Let me see if I can maybe walk third quarter ’15 to second quarter I’m sorry third quarter ’14 to third quarter ’15 for just to take you through that.
So if you look at an X to X basis I’m going to walk from 90.9 to 95.6.
The frequency dynamic in our auto book both PD and liability roughly 2.5 points so that 4.5 point change so frequency driving more than half of that change.
There’s another point coming from ex-cat property.
I talked about the fact that we've seen a few more fires water losses in the quarter so there's a point of that change coming from property.
And then the other point or so is coming from expenses.
So that's how I think about the 4.5 point move.
Okay.
So what about just in auto? In auto you’d have to rewrite that without the property premium.
Obviously the auto news has nothing to do with the homeowner change right.
So the 2.5 points waits up to within auto probably 3.7-ish or so.
The other point I would make when you think about the roll-forward with auto.
We had a very favorable frequency quarter in third quarter 2014.
So we're comparing a little bit of a move a 3% frequency move third quarter ‘15 to a very favorable quarter last year makes the compare more challenging.
But nonetheless our pick is where it needs to be for third quarter ‘15.
Okay.
So okay.
Just if I can -- so if I look at the underlying combined in auto deteriorated 460 basis points year-over-year? So can you tell us of that 460 how much of that was the higher expenses? It looks like your expenses about a point higher across personal lines? I’m just trying to figure out how much of that increase is expenses and how much of it is due to frequency? So 100 to 110 basis points of the 450 would be the expense move? Okay.
The frequency I think you have it is 250.
Okay.
And the rest okay the rest of frequency.
Okay and then so can you talk about the rate action that you’ve taken so far and when do you expect to see this trend normalize? I guess the few things.
As I commented this did emerge on us over the course of the summer.
September reasonably performed.
So not near the patterns we saw in July and August.
We are though thinking we’re in a different frequency environment.
In fact we have planned for that right.
So some of our plans in 2015 suggested that we were not to see some of the favorability we had seen in ‘14 and prior.
As we move forward we obviously are watching carefully right whether we have a new norm of the frequency trend or not.
I think it's early to call.
I would not suggest that we think we’re in a 3% go-forward world but we are contemplating whether we need to move and how aggressively state-by-state.
Lastly our indications and maybe I didn't say this before as we think about our book of business our frequency change does not look to be because of the new business we’ve written over the past year or 18 months it looks to be across our book and yes there is state profile.
So we’re spending time with all the large states and also the small states.
We’re looking across all of our profiles.
We’re spending a lot of time on our renewal book and we’ll be dealing with and are dealing with rate actions necessary to counteract where we see pressure inside the frequency.
Okay.
Okay.
And then just on the middle-market book you’ve mentioned a large property loss can you tell us as far as component of the commercial business how many points of the combined ratio that represented? A large property loss.
I think you mentioned in middle-market right.
I think I said [GL] [ph].
Okay.
So we had an old claim case in our primary liability book many years back where as we worked our way to the core settlement process with this customer.
We just decided it was a time we had to change our estimates and so we did that and that was a prior development move.
Okay.
Okay.
I thought I'd seen in the conference in the presentation that you mentioned that you had a middle-market property loss but I’ll go ahead and take a look at that.
I’ll follow-up offline.
Thanks.
Okay.
You got it.
Your next question comes from Gary Ransom with Dowling &amp; Partners.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
A while back you talked about a new Small Commercial initiative through the AARP channel.
And I was wondering if you could give us an update on where that stands? Sure.
Gary this is Doug.
We did launch an AARP initiative last summer summer of 2014 with AARP.
It has been slow to develop but we've learned a lot.
We continue to work that effort.
The aggregate some of the premiums is not over-the-top of $10 million so this is still small dollars to us.
But working with AARP and leveraging some of things we've done in Personal Lines I think we've learned a lot and we continue to adjust and shift as we go forward and expect to continue the right customers that are a big part of the AARP program.
Do you think this can be something quite a bit bigger over the coming years? I think it's early to call that Gary.
I'd rather give it a little bit more time.
I think we probably on both sides expected a little bit more traction in the first year or so but I’m not deterred by that.
I still think there are terrific customers that will become Hartford customers over time.
We just have not been able to generate the traction that we expected yet.
Okay.
And on the higher AARP marketing cost is there any early read on what that has generated in terms of new sales as we come after that? So it's a bit seasonal Gary.
As you know we ramp up those efforts second half of the year particularly leading into the January 2016 quarter.
So we do not have the success yet that those marketing efforts are geared at but I think we will over the coming months and obviously they’ll be geared to geographies and our customer segments as well.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Gary.
Your next question comes from Randy Binner with FBR Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Hey thank you.
Couple of follow-ups on the frequency and then the commercial auto.
So on frequency and personal auto I just want to kind of get a simple point right is that -- I think the narrative here is that the older drivers in this AARP heavy book are still different is that right that they’re safer drivers they’re just getting kind of caught up in collateral damage out there out on the roads? And the other piece the AARP question is can you talk a little bit about your pricing power to push that rate against the frequency experience in that book versus what we might see in a more wholesale channel? I think your first point is well taken and clearly history kind of plays that out.
So our driving experience in our AARP financial experience has been very solid over a longer period of time.
So yes we believe exactly what you shared.
Secondly on the pricing piece we’re just going to have to work at this right.
This is a state-by-state month-by-month effort.
Obviously the premiums don't all earn in day one.
We’re going to have to chip away over the coming quarters.
It's not a three or six month process but it's one that has already begun and one that will accelerate as we look at these patterns that are coming at us today.
Yeah.
I mean I guess I’m thinking is like I mean you should have better pricing power with an affinity channel right.
So I mean have you -- I mean can you share how past pricing increases have gone in this channel? I mean how good the retention or reception is? We share retention with you in our sub so you’ve seen very steady performance in our retention area.
I would expect that to continue.
Consistency is a big part of that performance right.
So we’re very aware of how consistent we need to perform both in a state and a product basis.
And I would say that across not only Personal Lines but small commercial as well.
So we intend to address the signals we’re seeing here.
We are going to watch carefully.
But I think that our customer base is very well informed and I expect that our retention will remain strong moving through time.
Randy it is Chris.
Okay.
I think the only other observation to is probably little bit of industry tailwind helping all of us given others reacting to even higher frequency and moving rate action in various state.
So most of our policies are on a 12-month basis given the more preferred marketplace.
So we don't have a six-month -- lot of six-month of policy phenomenon but the actions the others that have taken I think will lay a path that we could draft off of.
But we also do this in conjunction with our partner AARP right.
I mean it’s their members.
We want to be thoughtful we want to be consistent.
We don’t necessarily want to shock the system here.
So as Doug said this is a three-month phenomenon for us and we are not sure exactly where it's going to top out it but we know how do you manage the AARP relationship.
We know how to manage our 50 state new regulators and I think our past performance has indicated that fairly well.
Okay.
Great.
And then just jumping over commercial auto I think Doug had mentioned that you are getting high single-digit price increases there and maybe that was a comment for the industry as well.
But I guess a simple question is I mean how do we get a sense of that’s enough the commercial autos was a problem during the financial crisis years and now it is the recovery -- financial recovery problem if you will with the 10 to 13 accident years.
It seems like these are probably litigated claims.
I'm guessing where the medical is building up as well correct me if I'm wrong there.
But I mean there is high single-digit enough.
I mean should we be getting -- should we be going forward double-digit price increases here? I mean kind of interested in reflection on that? Randy a few points for you one is that our high single digit is approaching double.
It has been approaching double over the last several quarters.
So yes we are pushing of the curve.
Secondly we are seeing the benefit inside the early looks of our 2014 and 15 accident years.
So I feel better about progress inside those years.
Again there is a liability line that takes a while to playout.
So I want some maturity before we make those calls.
But I'm encouraged by progress and also the underwriting efforts underneath that are tweaking and adjusting our book of business both new and renewal continue to have their impact.
All right.
I’ll leave it there.
Thanks a lot.
Operator can I just make a comment before we take our next question.
I think Mike from Goldman asked a question about a property loss.
I just want to come back to it.
In the financial package we did share that there was a property lost.
It impacted our middle market book of business.
We did have a $10 million net fire in that book of business.
I think it was a point in change inside the combined ratios.
So we commented on it in our disclosures.
In the Midwest I think there was a one-off but that is the answer to the fire question.
Your next question comes from John Nadel with Piper Jaffray.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning everybody.
Doug maybe to beat the dead horse of Personal Lines for a moment.
If I look at the year-to-date underlying combined ratio so excluding prior year excluding cats I think you're running through the first nine months about 91.5% if my math is right.
Your guide for 2015 was a range of 89 to 91 it doesn't seem like you’ll get back to that unless you get some favorable weather or something else coming through in 4Q.
But I guess the question is as we look out to ‘16 if you saw that trends that developed here in the third quarter continue.
What kind of range relative to that 89 to 91 which you think would be reasonable looking out? I’ll take that.
John it’s Beth.
So I think we really want to get into providing ‘16 guidance at this point.
I mean you're right when we look at ‘15 in the combined that we provided at the beginning of the year the 89 to 91 that probably running a bit about that by a point.
And so as we look into preparing our views into ‘16 taking into consideration some of the actions that Doug is talking about will firm that up.
But sitting here today I think we would expect to be kind of on the higher-end of that.
Got it.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I guess I have a question about the level of earnings for Talcott this quarter and thoughts on statutory capital from Talcott as well.
So Talcott’s core earnings in the quarter and if I have it right $107 million.
You had the negative impact of lower alternatives returns but I guess that was offset or maybe partially offset by better bond prepayment income.
I just sort of want to get a sense if you had a 6% limited partnership or alternatives return there and more normal prepayments what that segment would've looked like? And then given you took a $500 million dividend out of Talcott in July is it simply a matter of hedge gains given the negative market performance that drove statutory capital to be relatively flat quarter-over-quarter? So couple of things.
So first on the NII piece you’re right in that.
The underperformance that we saw on the limited partnerships was really made up by the outperformance that we saw on these non-routine items.
Just to give you a sense for the quarter for Talcott it is probably around $30 million pre-tax of these non-routine items.
So I kind of think of those a little bit as a wash.
Okay.
On the surplus side yeah we did see a pretty sizeable increase in statutory surplus for Talcott once you take out the effect of the demand and a couple of things.
One you're right in that because of the market performance during the quarter we did have hedge gains and because our targets are more economic instead the reserves did not move to the same degree.
So we had a benefit there.
The other items that impacted the quarter as well was just the recognition of deferred tax assets.
That number does tend to bounce around a lot quarter-to-quarter just because of the way the recognition rules work.
So that was also a significant piece of that.
So when I think about Talcott for the year is again if you back out the impact of dividends we see statutory surplus up almost $450 million.
I still go back to that $200 million to $300 million range we’ve talked about before.
I think it’s at the beginning of the year.
I was feeling more likely be at the lower end of that range to maybe slightly below.
Sitting here today I kind of see us now at the higher-end and potentially maybe a little bit about that.
But it really is going to depend on where market conditions end for the quarter.
And just a real quick follow-up on that.
That $200 to $300 million if we are at the upper end of the range given where things and that's a 2016 dividend out of Talcott correct? So potentially I think what we’ve said is that we want to look and see how the year ends and some of that also.
When you think about dividends you’ve got to think about where is the statutory surplus generation is coming from.
It’s coming from recognition of deferred tax assets.
Those are hard to dividend out.
They are not cash yet.
Understood.
Yeah.
But as we said we’ll end the year.
We will asses where we are.
We do still anticipate taking out the $500 million in early ‘16 and we will evaluate what other capacity there could be depending on how we end the year.
Thank you so much.
Ian we are ready for the next question? Your next question comes from Meyer Shields with KBW.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Two quick questions if I can.
First could you give us a sense of the five of the renewal rights books that you’ve got from AIG? Meyer it’s relatively small think in terms of around $30 million.
Okay.
And second I think you mentioned that you were growing in specialty large commercial property.
I was hoping you can talk about that because I think it could be one of the areas where pricing is particularly weak? Meyer this is Doug.
We have been building capability in the public entity area for last couple years that area has quite a bit of activity in third quarter because July one tends to be a big renewal crossover for that book of business.
So couple of underwriters in that area.
We have nice success.
It's really had some traction.
I am very pleased about how that’s gotten off the ground over last of couple years.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Yeah.
Sure.
One more on the auto frequency issue and that is there seems to be a variance among companies as far as how they're experiencing this.
We are clearly opting Geico we have seen pick up in frequency now you have whereas seemingly Travelers and Progressive don't seem to be bothered nearly as much by this.
And I know you don’t know these companies like you know your own company? But I'm wondering if you can reflect on some of the potential explanations for the differences we are seeing we are all little confused by ourselves? Well let me share some thoughts and maybe some other thoughts I have just shared.
I guess as you look at miles driven just at the core Jay.
We're seeing gas prices remain at fairly low levels and the miles driven are up.
So as you think about parts of the country we saw that over the middle part of the year and I think we just have more drivers and we have generally a better business climates.
So we have both commercial and the person line drivers on the roads.
It's hard to avoid accidents as they continue to occur.
Again we are -- our book has performed well overtime and we are very pleased with that.
But the fact that they're on the roads today there are just more accidents and they are part of those accidents.
As we think about kind of further dissecting there is a statewide mix as I mentioned earlier and I think that will continue to play out.
I don't want to make projections of ’16 and ’17 but I think the state does matter congestion et cetera.
So it's early I don't want to take two months and make too much of it but I also want to give you indication that we are taking a very seriously disappointed in our quarter and we are going to work hard to make sure we are connecting the pricing and our frequency discussions.
Jay the only other observation I would have is we’ve said it before I mean our mature book is different than other aspects of others.
So we don't know others company's books as well as they know it but all we know is that the majeure driver does exhibit different driving patterns and different levels of frequency.
My only other industry observation and others I have talked about it but I've been more attuned to just particularly with teenager and young adult the drivers is there is too many devices in cars these days that are potentially creating a unfocused driver situation and I think it's real.
And I think we all need to take personal responsibility to continue to put these devices down and focus on the road because there is just too many distractions.
That’s all I will say on that.
Okay.
Thanks for the thoughts guys.
Your next question comes from Jay Gelb of Barclays.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
My first question is on property/casualty investment income? In the third quarter was $267 million.
That included only a $5 million contribution from the limited partnerships and other alternative investments.
So Beth I am trying to square your comments in terms of what that means for 4Q? I mean should we expect the total net investment income for P&amp;C to be below that $267 million in 4Q if I understand the message you are trying to deliver? Yes.
So when you look at the compare from third quarter to fourth quarter and we think about again the limited partnership return we are expecting to see those be below what we say in the third quarter just base on what we see today so that would be negative.
And as I commented P&amp;C did not -- doesn't really seem to benefit as much as the Talcott portfolio from some of these non-routine items that also impacted the compare.
Okay.
And then more broadly would Hartford generating around the 9% return on equity in -- for the trailing 12 months? I think there is some concern now whether the company has the ability to get that higher in over the next year or so and what are your thoughts on that? Jay I think we feel about the improvements obviously we have made over the last couple of years.
So I know you know this team has worked hard to deliver that 9.1 trailing where we are today and we are going to finish the year strong and we will talk about our guidance for ‘16 and beyond in February.
But I think what we've been trying to signal particularly with my comments Doug’s comment Beth’s comments particularly on low interest rate I mean there are serious competitive pressures.
There is serious low interest rate pressures that are affecting the industry’s book of business.
And we’re not going to be immune to it.
So I would still say that we think we have levers to continue to manage and expand our ROEs going forward.
But clearly it's not at the rate and pace that we've been able to deliver in the past.
Understanding the guidance won’t come in totally next year can you direct -- qualitatively can you give us some insight on those levers? Well you know Doug’s talked about it here just in the Personal Lines book.
I mean it’s underwriting actions it’s pricing action it’s a mix of business action.
We’re trying to be a more efficient organization while we invest in some of our new capabilities particularly technology.
As I mentioned coming out of CIAB I think we have the opportunity to expand our market share not competing on price but by delivering more products and services to our existing customer base and they would do more business with us.
So those are just some of those on top of my thought.
Excellent.
Hopefully capital management as well? Not clearly.
I’m focused on the numerator as you know.
So but we do -- we have our plan through ‘16 which I think you know is meaningful and will contribute to our performance.
Thanks for the answers.
Thank you Jay.
Your next question comes from Tom Gallagher Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
One follow-up on the prior-year development in commercial auto so understanding the higher medical costs that you saw this quarter.
Doug is that what you’ve been assuming from the standpoint of ‘14 and later loss -- initial loss picks or is that if medical costs remain at that level you'd also have an issue there? So Tom we are expecting some of that pattern that we've now seen emerge in 2010 through 2013 to also emerge in 2014 and beyond.
So yes we’ve become a bit more conservative in our development factors in those outer months in the most recent accident years.
So in other words if those elevated medical costs remain -- continue as is you shouldn't have adverse development on ‘14 and later? Correct.
That was our goal.
That's why we made the move.
Okay.
The other question I had is there was -- I guess for Beth there was a $200 million capital contribution to a property casualty U.K.
runoff entity.
Can you just provide a little color what's going on there? Is that a business you're planning on selling anymore capital going to be needed there? Sure.
So yeah we've been in the process of consolidating our U.K.
P&amp;C runoff businesses into a single legal entity.
And so what we were disclosing with some of the activity that happened in October is this process does require court approval.
We received it on October 13th and so the capital moved around within the entities.
This really is consolidating this business into one legal entity has a couple of advantage.
One actually is more efficient from a capital perspective when you take into consideration the capital standards in the U.K.
And it also allows us to consolidate operations which gives us a little bit of operational efficiency.
The second point is it does provide us greater flexibility to potentially act on more permanent solutions to dealing with these types of exposures.
Think about this group of business is having reserve about $800 million and I’d say little less than 60% of that is asbestos exposure.
But I’m not going to comment on the likelihood that we actually would be able to find such a solution.
Okay.
And then if I could just sneak in one last one Beth.
For the 4Q actuarial review or balance sheet review that we should expect for Talcott when I consider your long-term separate account return assumptions which are still north of 8% is that a meaningful risk as we think about current interest rate level and potentially changing that as it would relate to a DAC impairment? Yes.
So correct.
And that we do look at the DAC assumptions and other reserve assumptions in Talcott in the fourth quarter.
Sitting here today I think couple of things to keep in mind.
You are right that our long-term assumption is in that 8% range but we’ve benefitted from many many quarters of outperformance to that which actually when you think about how the DAC calculation works gives you a little bit of buffer on that.
So sitting here today I do not see any changes in long-term expectations that would impact our views of that balance as we head into the fourth quarter.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Ian I think we have one more question in the queue if we could take that? Your next question comes from Bob Glasspiegel with Janney Capital.
Your line is open.
Good morning Hartford.
I was just wondering if we could just look a little bit more carefully at the homeowners’ book where you’ve been sort of pushing 8% rate increases and retentions being dropping a little bit.
The margins aren’t -- you're not making a lot of progress year-over-year which you highlighted sort of the fluky fire losses this quarter.
Have you ruled out sort of any adverse selection going on in that book and what is your overall pricing versus exposure growth doing today? Bob you're right.
We have had some up-and-down behavior of that book of business that has been disappointing to us.
We're spending a lot of time at a granular level inside that book of business by state et cetera.
I think more progress to come but not satisfied at all about our results.
Leaning into the fourth quarter the fourth quarter traditionally has been our best quarter of homeowners’ performance.
So we hope to continue that in the fourth quarter but there are things some of which you described that we are aggressively cutting apart as we speak right now to make sure there isn't an adverse element there.
I don't believe that’s the case today.
But right now leaving no stone unturned.
Fair thoughtfully answer.
Is there any difference between the agency and the AARP book versus the similar profile? The AARP book has performed well across both our product lines.
But I would say that home has underperformed in general in both areas.
So we are not accepting and feeling great about our homeowners’ results across both channels and looking at all.
Hey Bob it’s Chris.
I would add in addition to Doug’s thoughtful comments as you said home is very strategically important to us it’s important to the AARP relationship it’s probably a product line that we’ve underinvested.
And we’re catching up quite honestly but we’re committed to catching up and providing more homeowners insurance to more AARP members whether it’d be on a direct basis or through agents.
So no it’s got our retention.
And as Doug said we’re trying to fix it as quickly as possible.
I think the industry is moving from that being an accommodation product to being the standalone P&amp;L item and the professionalism of your competitors has certainly been enhanced.
So I think the opportunity to achieve that is there for sure.
Bob I would agree with that.
And I just I think I referred this.
But clearly our performance in the AARP states has been closer to our targets than our agency performance right.
So we’ve got more work to be done in the agency area but in total as I look across the line still not pleased that we’re not quite where we want to be.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And Ian I believe I misspoke there is one more question in the queue.
Your final question comes from Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
I had a couple of questions.
First on the Personal Lines business one of the reasons of the weakness obviously was higher AARP Direct marketing spending so -- and obviously that’s a controllable factor.
So just wondering what’s your expectation for spending over the next few quarters? And if your loss costs do remain elevated do you intend to slow down spending a little bit to balance out profitability? And then secondly on buybacks you spent about $300 million on buybacks in the third quarter I realized you’re on the10b-5 program but to what extent do you have the capacity or the intent to be more proactive on buybacks given that you’ve got the capital already? So if the stock price drops further would you may be front end some of the buyback activity? Jimmy let me address the first part of your question and then maybe Beth wants to work on the second.
Sure.
We’re obviously being always through the fourth quarter we have the ability to kind of look at and address what we’re going to spend in the next 60 90 days and we’re doing that as we speak given the trends we’re seeing.
Second part of the answer I would share with you is that although I have characterized it as marketing spend obviously part of that is the ability in our service centers to handle the demand that comes out of the marketing spend.
So it is really a marketing spend in the aggregate and we’re making sure that if for running ads on a weekend we are ready to handle those requests as they come in.
So it’s a combination of both generating frontline response and also being able to handle the flow as it comes to our centers.
And then on the question on share buyback yeah we did $300 million this past quarter and you are right our practice has been to put in trading plan.
So for the fourth quarter our trading plan is around $350 million.
We can always be opportunistic.
As you know our practice has been to really spread that out over the period.
We’ve seen that has worked very well for us but it doesn’t mean from time to time that we might take advantage of some opportunistic trades but don’t anticipate to deviate significantly from how we thought about this in the past.
Okay.
Thanks.
And maybe if I could just ask one final question.
On your annuity business you fixed annuity surrenders run up I think that because of the enhanced surrender value program that you initiated in June.
So maybe if you could just address the scope of that and has the benefit of that come through already or do you expect additional or continue elevated lapses and into the fourth quarter? And then on the VA business your surrenders actually went down so how much of that is just because of the drop in account values versus maybe that in the past they were elevated just given the surrender value programs that you had before? Yeah.
So just the VA piece first.
So yes we have seen a little bit of a decline in the VA surrender rate.
You’re right in a market where we would see equity levels go down we would typically tend to see those surrender rates act accordingly.
But we do believe that there’s a little bit of the impact of the actions we’ve taken had in the past and front ended some of the surrender.
So when we think about surrender rate absent any other programs that we might do in the variable annuity space we do see then being a little bit lower than maybe what the run rate has been in the past.
And then on the ISB the program that we have in the fixed annuity book we did benefit in the quarter from that.
There is still some activity that’s happening in the fourth quarter so we might see continuously a little bit of bump from that and then as we go into ’16 it just remains to see what other type of initiatives we might do.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And thank you all for joining us today and your interest in The Hartford.
Please note for your calendars that The Hartford will be presenting at the Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference on December 9th in New York City.
And as always if you have any follow-up questions please don't hesitate to contact either Sean or myself by phone or e-mail.
Thank you for your attention and have a good day.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jessa and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Hartford’s Fourth Quarter 2015 Financial Results Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Sabra Purtill Head of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to The Hartford’s webcast for 2015 financial results and 2016 outlook.
The news release investor financial supplement and fourth quarter slides were all released yesterday afternoon and are posted on our website.
In addition there is a slide deck for today’s webcast that was posted this morning.
I would note that we expect to file the 2015 10-K on February 26th.
Our speakers today include Chris Swift Chairman and CEO of The Hartford; Doug Elliot President; and Beth Bombara CFO.
Following their prepared remarks we will have about 30 minutes for Q&amp;A.
Just a few notes before Chris begins today’s call includes forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results could be materially different.
We do not assume any obligation to update forward-looking statements and investors should consider the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from these statements.
A detailed description of those risks and uncertainties can be found in our SEC filings available on our website.
Our presentation today also includes several non-GAAP financial measures.
Explanations and reconciliations of these measures to the comparable GAAP measure are included in our SEC filings as well as in the news release and the financial supplement.
I’ll now turn the call over to Chris.
Thanks Sabra.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining the call.
2015 was a successful year for The Hartford.
Core earnings per diluted share increased 15% over 2014.
Core earnings ROE rose to 9.2% from 8.4%.
Book value per diluted share excluding AOCI grew by 7%.
We reduced debt by $750 million and we returned $1.6 billion of capital to our shareholders.
Doug and Beth will go into further details of our 2015 performance but I’d like to touch on a few highlights.
First Property and Casualty had a very strong year.
The underlying combined ratio improved a half a point to 91 and top line growth continued reflecting an increase in new business and the benefit of pricing and underwriting actions we have made over the past few years.
Group Benefits had a very strong year.
The business generated a 5.6% core earnings margin exceeding our plan and pivoted to growth with a 2% increase in fully insured ongoing premiums.
We continue to execute on our strategy at Talcott Resolution.
The business is running off steadily returning capital to the holding company and our hedge programs are working effectively.
Our mutual funds business generated $1.5 billion of positive net flows in 2015 increased sales by 15% and delivered solid relative fund performance.
And our ratings were upgraded by A.M.
Best Moody’s and S&amp;P an affirmation of our improved balance sheet operating performance and financial flexibility.
We delivered these strong financial results and increased our top line momentum while investing in the capabilities and talent that are making us a broader and deeper risk player in a more efficient customer-focused company that can deliver sustainable profitable growth.
For example the strong talent we attracted to the organization particularly in underwriting sales data and technology is enabling us to judiciously expand into new market industry verticals.
Doug will touch upon this in a moment.
The investments we made in new systems such as our claims system our Group Benefits enrolment system and our middle market underwriting desktop are both reducing cycle times and importantly enhancing the experiences we are delivering to agents and customers.
Our understanding of the business implications of accelerating technological change shifting demographics and evolving customer expectations is informing the investments we are making in product distribution and service.
And recent marketing investments have increased the visibility of our iconic brand.
For example our sponsorship of Major League Baseball fully rolls out in 2016 and we recently announced the extension of our 20-plus year relationship with the U.S.
Paralympics through 2020.
As all of you know the market is becoming increasingly competitive and the investment environment is less favorable.
Consolidation amongst carriers as well as agents and brokers has accelerated.
Legacy IT platforms are aging and are costly to maintain.
We face disruption from the advent of big data autonomous vehicles and new capital entering the market.
Interest rates are low and are expected to be lower for longer.
These dynamics are challenging insurance companies to reevaluate their operations and to adapt.
We believe that The Hartford is well-positioned to address these challenges and to take advantage of the market opportunities they present.
We entered 2016 with a strong portfolio of businesses and capital flexibility.
We remain focused on organically growing each of our business and we will explore acquisitions that meet our financial and strategic objectives.
We will maintain underwriting discipline and tightly manage expenses to support ongoing investments in the capabilities and talent needed to be a top-of-mind company for the products we offer through our distribution partners.
And we will continue to expand our core earnings ROE excluding Talcott with business performance and effective capital management that returns excess capital to shareholders.
Our 2016 outlook for core earnings is $1.575 billion to $1.675 billion.
Excluding Talcott this range represents core earnings growth of approximately 5% adjusted for favorable CATs in other items in 2015.
We also intend to complete our capital management plan including the $1.3 billion of share repurchases.
In closing let me express how proud I am of what we accomplished in 2015 and my sincere thanks to our leadership team our employees agents and customers and our investors for their continued support and confidence.
We have a clear strategy an experienced and stable management team a powerful national distribution network differentiated products and a brand that stands for strength and integrity.
As we enter 2016 I am confident in our ability to navigate this dynamic and competitive environment and continue to create shareholder value.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Doug.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
I’ll provide an overview of our 2015 results and Property and Casualty and Group Benefits and then share some thoughts as we look forward to 2016.
2015 was another year of strong financial performance with improved results in Commercial Lines and Group Benefits.
In Personal Lines results were below our expectations but we remain pleased with the trends of our AARP Direct business and the progress we’ve made to reposition Agency.
Let me get right into our financial results.
In Commercial Lines we delivered over $1 billion of core earnings for the full year on an all-in combined ratio of 92.6 eight-tenths of a point better than 2014.
The underlying combined ratio excluding CATs and prior year development was 90 for the year representing 1.5 points of margin improvement.
Recall that 2014 included a $49 million pre-tax benefit from New York assessments.
Normalizing for this the underlying combined ratio improved 2.3 points.
This was driven primarily by improved results in workers’ compensation general liability and non-CAT property losses.
Renewal written pricing and standard Commercial Lines was 2% for both the full year and the fourth quarter.
In workers’ compensation our largest and most profitable line of business loss trends continue to emerge favorably and as a result pricing has flattened relative to the prior period.
Conversely commercial auto pricing was in the high single digits reflecting adverse loss experience throughout the year.
On the top line written premium of $6.6 billion was up 4% from 2014 with growth across Small Commercial Middle Market and Specialty Commercial.
Let me provide some details on each of our commercial business units.
In Small Commercial the underlying combined ratio of 86.6 was four times of a point better than 2014.
Written premium grew by 4% driven by strong retentions and $545 million of new business an increase of $24 million or 5% year-over-year.
New business growth in the fourth quarter was the strongest for the year at 9% capping off another excellent year for this business unit.
In the summer of 2015 many of you were with us at our Charlotte operation where we demonstrated the core building blocks that form the foundation for our market-leading small business platform.
These include our new business submission technology ICON our underwriting and service centers that handle over 2 million calls annually from customers and agents and our sales team that is relentless in partnering with distributors.
Hopefully you are better able to appreciate how these capabilities seamlessly intertwine to deliver the results we posted in 2015.
In Middle Market we made solid progress with the underlying combined ratio of 91.4 improving 3.1 points from 2014.
Written premium growth was 3% retentions were solid throughout the year and new business production of $474 million was up for a third consecutive year.
The second half of 2015 was certainly more challenging and we saw that during the fourth quarter with new business premium down 13%.
We’re encouraged by the results in Construction and Marine both of which posted strong new business growth and profitability in the fourth quarter.
In Specialty Commercial the underlying combined ratio of 98.8 for the full year improved from 100.2 in 2014.
This was driven by strong performance improvement in bond and financial products.
National accounts achieved nearly 90% account retention and posted positive written premium growth.
Bond written premium growth was modest as we have yet to see a pick-up in public construction projects.
And financial products gained traction with the growth in middle market and technology E&amp;O two strategic priorities for the year.
Overall specialty written premiums were up 3%.
Shifting over to Personal Lines we delivered $185 million in core earnings down 12% from prior year.
The underlying combined ratio of 92 deteriorated 1.4 points from last year driven mainly by higher auto loss costs and increased non-weather losses in homeowners.
In Personal Lines auto we experienced frequency trends above our expectations in the second half of the year.
Our full year frequency trend is under 2% with the third and fourth quarters running at approximately 3.5% to 4%.
We saw an increase in the summer months largely due to increased miles driven.
Trends in September and October were quite benign as well as the early read on November.
In December there was another uptick in frequency mainly in liability.
Some of the claim activity in December related to November accidents causing the November frequency to develop several points higher than our initial indication.
And we also had relatively favorable trends in those months of 2014 setting up challenging comparisons for the fourth quarter.
We continue to hone our rate plans and underwriting actions to address these frequency trends as the data matures.
But it’s clear to us that these patterns are a new norm and will be addressed in our rate filings.
Now let me turn to Group Benefits.
Core earnings for 2015 increased to $195 million up 8% from 2014.
That results in a core earnings margin of 5.6%.
The full year group disability loss ratio was favorable compared to prior year reflecting our ongoing pricing discipline and favorable incidence trends.
The Group Life loss ratio deteriorated due to slightly higher mortality and claim severity.
Looking at the top line for reinsured ongoing premium ex-Association-FI increased 4% for the full year.
Overall book persistency on our employer group WoCo [ph] business came in at approximately 90% for the year.
And fully insured ongoing sales was $467 million up $141 million.
2015 was a very strong year for Group Benefits.
First quarter sales were outstanding followed by solid activity throughout the year.
The overall loss ratio remains steady and at attractive margins while the expense ratio ex-Association-FI decreased 1.1 points.
All these drivers contributed to an increase in the core earnings margin during 2015.
We were especially excited to welcome back several large customers as further evidence of our outstanding service and product capabilities.
As we wrap up 2015 we’re pleased with our continued financial progress and by the growing market strength of each of our businesses.
Before I turn things over to Beth let me offer a few comments on 2016.
Although we’re facing near-term pricing and competitive challenges we remain committed to our long-term objective of profitable growth.
Each of our business units has core initiatives underway for 2016.
In Small Commercial we’re adding to our digital capabilities as customers and distributors demand more access and convenience.
And we’re expanding our product and underwriting capabilities to accommodate both larger accounts and broader coverage on our platform.
In Middle Market our priority is competing effectively at the front line leveraging our talent with the tools we’ve introduced over the past several years.
Through advanced training and rigorous analytics our field underwriters are continuously improving our reselection and pricing decisions.
In product development and related areas such as claims and risk engineering we’re extending our capabilities in industry verticals such as construction auto parts manufacturing and hospitality.
Taken together these actions allow us to effectively become a broader middle market player.
Within Specialty Commercial we rolled out a new risk management platform for national accounts allowing customers better access to claim data and other information needed by risk managers.
This investment further strengthens our value proposition in this competitive market segment and will allow us to work more closely with our customers to improve long-term account performance.
We expect our overall Commercial Lines margins to remain generally stable with an underlying combined ratio between 89 and 91.
We will remain disciplined with our pricing and underwriting actions managing to both long-term loss cost trends as well as individual account performance.
In Personal Lines we have three overarching goals.
The first is to improve the margins of our products both auto and homeowners.
We’re investing in capabilities to better harness data and analytics and thereby refine and manage our underwriting and pricing.
Second is to maximize the value of our long-term partnership with AARP.
Investments in digital tools contact service capabilities and direct marketing effectiveness are all designed to attract and retain more AARP members.
And third we will leverage the agency channel to target AARP members and other customer segments that value the expertise of agents who actively seek the benefits of our product suite and who value our service model.
We expect to achieve a Personal Lines underlying combined ratio of 90 to 92.
In Group Benefits we’re looking to drive growth in our core employer group offerings as well as our voluntary product suite.
Our current voluntary lineup includes DisabilityFLEX Critical Illness and Accident.
We will add hospital indemnity in the first quarter of 2017.
These products along with our enhanced enrollment and marketing tools help individual participants to make sound decisions for their unique benefit needs.
We expect our Group Benefits core earnings margin to be relatively stable between 5.5% and 6%.
First quarter 2016 renewal retention is strong as is new sales activity.
January sales are well above our five-year average but down versus a year ago.
Recall that 2015 was in many ways a unique sales year recovering from low market activity in 2013 and 2014.
Overall 2016 will be a year of competing in an aggressive and disciplined manner.
Competition has intensified versus the year ago.
We’re putting our investments and enhanced capabilities to work to maintain our margins in Commercial Lines and Group Benefits and improve financial performance in Personal Lines.
We will continue to identify opportunities for profitable growth and we remain committed to smart product and underwriting expansions building deep partnerships with our distributors and delivering outstanding value to our customers.
In summary we’re very pleased with the successful year in 2015 and are looking forward to continuing our journey in 2016.
Let me now turn the call over to Beth.
Thank you Doug.
Today I’m going to cover Talcott Resolution the investment portfolio and full year results before turning to our 2016 outlook and financial goals.
Talcott’s full year core earnings summarized on Slide 19 rose 9% from the prior year to $472 million much higher than our original outlook due to a tax reserve release increased limited partnership income and non-routine investment income such as make-whole payments.
Excluding these items Talcott’s results were largely in line with the February 2015 outlook of $340 million to $370 million.
On a statutory basis Talcott’s surplus during 2015 increased by approximately $375 million before dividend to the holding company.
Year-end surplus was $5 billion which correspond to an RBC of approximately 550%.
In mid January of this year the Connecticut department approved our $500 million dividend request and it was paid to the holding company last week.
This payment completed Talcott’s $1.5 billion capital return program that we announced in February last year.
In addition we expect to request a dividend of approximately $250 million in the second half of 2016.
For 2016 we expect Talcott quarter earnings in the range of $320 million to $340 million.
This outlook is based on the continued runoff of the VA in fixed books and does not include items like tax reserve releases or significant non-routine investment income that we had in 2015.
I would note that our outlook does assume market value appreciation from year-end 2015 on VA accounts; and therefore there is some sensitivity to market levels.
Statutory results for 2016 will depend on many factors such as the level of admitted deferred tax assets cash flow testing reserves limited partnership and non-routine investment income and other items that may create volatility.
Based on the underlying assumptions in our outlook we expect statutory capital generation to be in the $200 million to $300 million level although as we experienced during 2015 it can vary a lot between quarters.
Looking forward our objectives for Talcott have not changed.
We expect to maintain Talcott’s capital self-sufficiency.
Consistent with the past few years we provided you an update of Talcott’s capital margins on Slides 30 and 31 in the Appendix which are based on the market scenario summarized on Slide 32 pro forma for the $500 million dividend in January 2016 and the additional $250 million expected in the second half of 2016.
Talcott’s stress scenario capital margin at year-end 2017 is expected to be approximately $1.6 billion well above our 200% RBC minimum.
This result gives us confidence that Talcott will continue to return capital to the holding company in 2017 although the actual amount and timing of 2017 dividends will depend on final 2016 results market conditions liquidity needs as well as the composition of surplus.
And as a reminder any dividends require regulatory approval.
Given recent capital market volatility I wanted to touch on our hedging programs for Talcott.
First our hedging programs have been effective against their targets and due to the sale of Japan we have far less volatility in our reported results.
Our hedge programs target the economics of the VA liabilities which means that gains or losses on the hedges mostly offset the changes in the economic liability to policy holders.
Within the VA GMWB liability we are largely hedged for equity exposure although not for fees and we are not entirely hedged for interest rates.
Second while our hedge programs are a key tool for maintaining Talcott’s capital self-sufficiency we will continue to have capital sensitivity to stress scenarios including credit risk and interest rate exposures on the fixed and institutional annuity blocks.
You can see these impacts on Page 32 of the slides which shows the key changes in capital margins in the stress and favorable scenarios versus the base case.
Lastly on Talcott we completed our annual assumption update in the fourth quarter which takes into consideration recent experience including withdrawals surrenders mortality and operating expenses.
We adjusted some assumptions including lowering surrender rates which had a modest negative impact on fourth quarter net income.
Turning to investments on Slide 20 total impairments for the quarter were $107 million.
2015’s impairments are up from $63 million in 2014 largely due to intent-to-sell impairments on energy and other commodity-related securities.
As for energy-related securities our holdings totaled $3.7 billion at December 31 2014 and declined to $2.5 billion at year-end as we actively reduced our exposure during the course of the year.
We believe these investments are well-positioned for a lower for longer oil and commodity price environment and we will continue to manage these holdings.
During the year we upgraded the average credit quality of our below investment grade portfolio which totaled $3.2 billion at year-end 2015.
As you can see on Slide 20 we increased our exposure to BB bonds and decreased our exposure to bonds rated B and below during the year including some below investment grade energy exposures.
Turning to Slide 21 our portfolio yield excluding limited partnerships has held up reasonably well averaging 4.1% largely consistent with last year.
However excluding non-routine investment items the yield is down about 10 basis points from 2014.
The P&amp;C portfolio yield excluding limited partnerships declined to 3.8% in 2015 from 4% the year before reflecting the impact of lower reinvestment rates.
As a reminder the P&amp;C yield is lower than the consolidated portfolio due to its shorter duration.
Consistent with the decline in yield 2015 P&amp;C net investment income including limited partnerships declined 4% to $1.17 billion.
In total 2015 core earnings increased 7% to $1.65 billion or $3.88 per diluted share which you can see on Slide 22.
The core ROE rose to 9.2% an 80 basis point improvement from 2014.
And book value per diluted share excluding AOCI at December 31 2015 rose 7% to $43.76 compared to a 4% growth in 2014.
Taking together the $0.78 in common dividends per share and the increase in 2015 book value per share ex-AOCI equates to total value creation of 9% per share.
Let me provide a quick update on our capital management actions for the last quarter and the year.
During the fourth quarter of 2015 we repurchased $450 million of shares a little higher than the $425 million we indicated at the Goldman Sachs conference in early December.
We also repaid $160 million of debt that matured in the quarter.
For the full year our equity repurchases totaled $1.3 billion and we used approximately $800 million to reduce debt while paying more than $300 million in common stock dividends.
As of February 3 2016 we have approximately $1.2 billion remaining out of the $4.375 billion authorization for equity repurchases from 2014 through 20116.
For debt management we have $455 million remaining under our plan.
I’ll touch on our 2016 outlook shortly but wanted to note that our 2016 outlook assumes the completion of this capital management plan by December 31 2016.
Turning to Slide 24 I draw your attention to expanded disclosures in the IFS for ROEs.
As of December 31 2014 we began providing legal entity balance sheets on Page 4 of the IFS.
Beginning this quarter we are providing additional ROE disclosures so you can now evaluate net income and core earnings ROEs in total as well as excluding Talcott.
In addition we have provided individual ROEs for P&amp;C combined companies group benefits and mutual funds.
As noted on this chart our core earnings ROE excluding Talcott was 10.9%.
P&amp;C is the largest driver of this result with a 2015 P&amp;C core earnings ROE of 13.5% offset in part by the impact of the corporate segment which has a lower ROE due to cash and liquid assets at the holding company.
Talcott’s core earnings ROE was 6.2% about 2 percentage points higher than its run rate adjusted for the tax benefit and favorable investment results in 2015.
Increasing our core earnings ROE to exceed our cost of equity capital has been an important goal for The Hartford over the past few years.
In 2015 we closed that gap by achieving strong financial performance and a lower beta driven by the reduction in risk and volatility as a result of our strategic and financial transformation over the past several years.
Before covering our 2016 core earnings outlook which you can see on Slide 25 I wanted to let you know that this will be the last year that we provide a core earnings based outlook.
Between the business sales in 2013 and 2014 and the financial disclosures that we provide in the IFS and our SEC filings The Hartford is a much simpler company to analyze and model.
Given many factors that cause a P&amp;C company’s results to vary including catastrophes prior-year development and investor returns the vast majority of public P&amp;C companies do not provide earnings guidance.
However we expect to continue to provide our outlook for financial metrics and capital management that will help you develop your earnings forecast.
Turning to 2016 our core earnings outlook is a range of $1.575 billion to $1.675 billion summarized on Slide 25.
At the midpoint of the range this equates to growth of about 5% over 2015 normalized for favorable CATs and unfavorable prior development and excluding Talcott.
The table on this slide includes several of the financial metrics included in this outlook which were included in the news release last night.
I would note that this year we have an outlook for P&amp;C net investment income excluding limited partnerships of just over $1 billion down 3% at the midpoint from 2015.
As I stated earlier our outlook assumes the completion of our capital management plan.
At December 31 2015 holding company cash and short-term investments totaled $1.7 billion.
In addition we anticipate about $1.1 billion in dividends from our P&amp;C Group Benefits and Mutual Fund businesses and $750 million from Talcott in 2016.
These amounts are more than sufficient to complete the current capital management plans while also covering 2016 interest expense and dividends and maintaining holding company liquidity above target levels.
Finally before turning to Q&amp;A I want to reiterate that 2015 was a successful year both financially and strategically.
Our strategy has not changed and in 2016 we remain confident in our ability to make progress on our operational and financial objectives as we have done over the past several years.
While markets are more challenging our financial strength financial flexibility and underwriting and expense discipline are important competitive advantages that will help us continue to create shareholder value.
Chris and Doug shared many of our operational objectives for 2016.
In addition to our 2016 outlook our financial objectives in 2016 and beyond include the following - continuing to expand our core earnings ROE excluding Talcott efficiently manage the runoff and return of capital from Talcott while maintaining its capital self-sufficiency redeploy the excess capital generated by our business to create greater shareholder value and generate average total value creation of at least 9% as measured by common dividends paid plus growth in book value per diluted ex-AOCI.
I will now turn the call over to Sabra so we can begin the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Beth.
Just a reminder that we have about 30 minutes for Q&amp;A which means we might run a little past the 10 AM deadline when some other calls begin.
If you have to drop off or we don’t have time to get to your questions please email or call the IR team and we’ll follow up with you as soon as possible today.
Jessa could you please repeat the instructions for Q&amp;A? Certainly.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Jay Gelb from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Thanks and good morning.
And thanks for the additional disclosure on return on equity.
With regard to however you want to look at on overall basis or core basis do you think Hartford has the ability to maintain or even potentially exceed a bit that 9% outcome on return on equity that’s delivered this year? Jay it’s Chris.
9.2% is what we delivered this year on a core basis.
And thanks for acknowledging the expanded disclosures that Beth and the team have put out there.
We think it’s important that you really continue to see the progress that we can make going forward.
So as I really sit here today the 10.9% core earnings ex-Talcott as Beth described really does exceed our cost of equity capital today which we judge probably on a 9% to 9.5% range.
And if we look forward in ‘16 I do think we could improve that 10.9%.
So when I say that really what I mean is if you look at the plan that we outlined including normal CATs we achieve our NII outlook we maintain in the margins that Doug and his team are focused on and we execute the capital management plan I think that core earnings ROE ex-Talcott could increase by 50% by the end of ‘16 - basis points excuse me 50 basis points.
That’s great thank you.
And I just have one question on the guidance.
In the P&amp;C and other operations which includes a drag from legacy liabilities like asbestos it’s been negative for the past few years and I’m just wondering why Hartford isn’t including any impact of that in 2016 in the guidance.
Yes this is Beth.
I’ll take that question.
So we make our best call each year on what we anticipate for our A&amp;E reserves.
And to put a bogey out there as far as what we could expect for prior development we don’t really have a basis for doing that.
The last several years obviously we have seen charges.
Years before that we didn’t.
And we’ll continue to evaluate any reserves in the second quarter like we’ve done before.
Also note we don’t actually estimate any prior year development except for the accretion of workers comp discount so it’s very consistent with how we look at things overall.
But it is something that we obviously take into consideration and thin about as we think about our expectations for 2016 and we’ll make the call on what the reserves need to be at the time we do the study.
Right.
For our own models if we were to put something in for prior year development on issues like a asbestos south [ph] that would detract from the - Yes yes.
We have not included an estimate for prior year development in our outlook.
And Jay the 50 basis point improvement I talked about obviously does not include that either.
So like Beth said we don’t really outlook favorable or unfavorable development at this point.
I understand.
Thanks again.
Just one thing before you take another question Sabra I just did want to clarify that in my remarks I call that our impairments for the quarter were 107 million.
That was actually a full year number not the quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Cliff Gallant from Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Thank you for taking my question.
I just want to talk a little bit about workers comp and what kind of loss trends you’ve been seeing there over the last year.
And then in terms of your guidance what are you assuming going forward? Cliff good morning this is Doug.
Our indications across our frequency and severity triangles these last several years have been very favorable.
2015 our frequency still is small single digits negative across all our markets.
Severity is a bit too early to predict on that tail line but we’re seeing favorable symptoms even at 12 months on the 2015 actually.
And so very pleased about the last three to four action year.
Indicators inside our loss triangles and it has been a driver of our improvement and profitability for sure.
In 2016 moving forward we don’t see a major change in the environment but we’re still predicting that we’re going to see medical inflation and indemnity severity based on wage and medical as we expect over the lifetime of these workers comp claims.
And frequency I think it’s a pretty flattish scenario in the frequency world.
Okay all right.
So when we think about the guidance in the 80 90 91 I mean obviously those are very good numbers but you could be painted as somewhat conservative in terms of your outlook as well.
Yes I’ll let you pick the word.
What I would say is that we’re pleased with the progress.
Particularly in middle market this line has gone from at the bottom of our profitability curve to near the top.
And we’re trying to do everything we can to maintain that level of profitability in our book.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of John Nadel from Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
One on personal lines.
I guess Doug you had mentioned in your prepared remarks that in auto that you believe the pattern of higher frequency is a new norm.
I guess the question I have in response to that comment by you is the 6% level of renewal rate increases does that appear sufficient as you look forward now based on this expectation that the higher frequency is the new norm? So John thanks.
I guess I would say this first about 2015.
First the first six months of 2015 really were very quiet vis-à-vis frequency and then obviously very different patterns back after the year.
As we move forward we’re reflecting kind of the increased economic activity which has got a lot of features to it as you know.
We weren’t quite sure and we certainly didn’t have that tenant [ph] when we’re with you in October when we talked about the third quarter.
But it’s more than a blip.
We think it’s going to be with us and therefore we’re building those patterns into our longer-term framework.
And I would say there’s upward bias on our pricing actions moving forward yes.
Got it.
Thank you.
And then just one quick one on Talcott Beth I think you had mentioned that if we had normalized 2015 for some of the unusual items that earnings would have been in the range that you guys had originally provided if you compare that against the 2016 it looks like you’re calling for sort of a core or normalized high single digit piece of earnings declined.
Should we think about that as a longer-term trend as well in that is there really anything that should change around the case of the runoff of the underlying blocks of business within Talcott? Yes I would say over the near-term that is a reasonable estimation of the decline.
So again a large portion of the income that comes in on Talcott is from the VA book and fees there so that continues to surrender activity there you’d continue to see decreases in those earnings.
So in the near term I think that’s a reasonable expectation.
Thanks very much.
Have a good day.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Nannizzi from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thanks so much.
Just a couple of questions on personal lines again but this time on the homeowners side.
I mean clearly when we look at the whole P&amp;C operations middle markets and homeowners were areas for improvement for harvesting some improvement at the beginning of the year you’ve clearly done that in middle markets where are we in homeowners? And it would just seem that like now is probably a pretty good time to be fixing that business.
Can you just sort of give us an update of where you are? And what sort of margin improvement are you anticipating in your outlook for 2016? Thanks.
Good morning Mike this is Doug.
Hi Doug.
We’re working.
We are working hard and you know that across both auto and home.
I would say this on the homeowners book number one our ability to price parallel and properly underwrite through all those parallels is going through a vigorous review.
We’re looking at our underwriting and risk characteristics.
We’re looking at agency management actions.
So really for both lines we’ve made quite a few changes in the past 12 months.
We’re down about 2 200 agencies that have underperformed for us over a longer period of time.
We’re going to continue to look at agency actions in the AARP agency world.
We have deauthorized over 2 300 contracts in the last six months.
So we’re looking at every lever available to us both on the home and auto side encouraged by progress on both.
But it’s going to take time for those actions to earn their way in to the book of business which is why I think we’re trying to be subtle and conservative as we play 2016 out.
Got it.
And do you have a notion of for the year you ran at 77 give or take for homeowners to kind of square up with that guidance you provided for personal lines? Is that where you’re assuming some of that margin expansion comes in? Yes we have hopes for improvement on both auto and home.
I would say that if you look at our cat performance over a longer than one year period we think that we can be a more thoughtful cat underwriter in the homeowners arena.
Again we’re looking at pearls inside our product.
So yes between agency actions and underwriting actions on our own part we do expect to see improvement in home over the next year to two.
Got it.
And then just back in middle markets for just a minute that the gap there between middle and small is now 400 basis points or under 400 basis points.
Do you feel like now kind of taking a step back and looking at the work you’ve done and sort of what you’ve achieved I mean is there anything sort of one timing in the fourth quarter? Do you feel like this is a good starting point for you and/or looking at that sort of differential to small commercial? Has that kind of dragged what you would expect and potentially could we see that gap close further? Thanks.
Mike I’d love to see that gap close a bit further but let me just offer a couple of comments.
Number one very pleased with the outstanding performance in small commercial.
I think across the marketplace and historically against our own book of business we’re in a very solid spot and would like to grow and maintain that margin going forward.
So that’s a thought around small commercial.
In the middle arena a bit more duration matched here.
So this is a book of business that has improved mightily over the past four years.
We’re watching the yield curve because duration does matter.
Workers comp is a key line here as it is in small.
It’s been a while since I’ve reported a quarter with 89 execs in the middle in my career.
So please with progress.
I would say that between the pricing environment that we continue to compete in and the yield environment that affects our portfolio we’re going to stay close to those dynamics and be thoughtful in terms of our choices risk by risk as we move through time.
And also as Chris has shared with you we have geography goals.
And we think there are other places in the country that we can find and build new relationships and be able to leverage our products that are really very solid at the marketplace.
So like the progress.
I think we can be a much bigger broader player over time in middle.
Great.
Thanks so much.
You next question comes from the line of Jay Cohen.
Please go ahead.
Yes a couple of questions.
One you had mentioned I pretty notable reduction on the number of agents.
Should we be factoring that as having an impact on your top line growth and personal lines? If you look at fourth quarter performance Jay you can see some of that playing out because one of the lines is down.
It’s down most substantially relative to the other personal lines.
It’s not 50% of our agency book but it has disproportionally impacted our profit inside the book of business Jay.
So I don’t think you have to make major top line modifications.
I think you’re going to probably see more quarters moving forward like what you saw in the fourth quarter.
But we do expect to see some positive development inside our triangles from some of these actions.
Got it.
Secondly on the small commercial side one potential major competitor is planning to form a kind of direct distribution platform with small commercial.
Two questions on this.
One do you think this has a chance of succeeding? Secondly if yes is Hartford well-positioned to essentially explore that channel if in fact people want to buy that way.
Jay it’s Chris.
We’re very aware of market developments and activities whether it be from traditional players of new players in the marketplace.
And ultimately you’re probably not going to like this answer but time will tell.
But if you look at what it’s going to take to be successful product service brand reputation claims I mean it’s I call it an entire business model you have to be good at to keep customers for a long term which we’ve been particularly very pleased and proud of our retention.
So with $3.5 billion of premium and upstarts they’re going to try and we’ll have to have a response which we’ll be prepared for at the right time to counteract any of their measures in the marketplace.
But I like our beginning point.
But we’re also very watchful as far as developments in the marketplace.
Got it.
Thanks Chris.
Your next question comes from the line of Meyer Shields from KBW.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I have two personal lines questions if I can.
One Doug can you take us through the mechanics of the policies that are served by the agents that have been terminated? I’m asking really whether that impact systems ratios going forward.
So we have contracts with individual agencies both personal lines and commercial contracts Meyer.
And we obviously have to buy better provisions so there are extended contract periods.
So some of them having six-month twelve-month provision that we will continue to be partners.
And then at some point in the future that business will move elsewhere.
They do shift and are not exactly the same throughout the country but we’re adhering to them.
On the expense side I think we’re working hard to manage our expenses appropriately given what may happen to the top line.
So I don’t think you have to do any different to your models on the expense side.
Chris.
I would just offer Meyer just a context here.
So agents across our platform are very vital to our success.
So when we talk about shrinking agents particularly in the independent agency side I think it’s important you have a context of market segment.
So our strategy here is to have meaningful relationships with our independent agents defined as being a top three carrier in their agency plan because that will dictate I’ll call it long-term success with retention growth and profitability.
Those agencies particularly in personal lines that we don’t have that type of relationship with is the targeted area here for shrinking.
On the other side particularly given our AARP relationship and the importance of agents to certain AARP members that want advice and counsel if we want to continue to support those independent agents that have the ability to attract and retain AARP customers for the long term.
So it’s very targeted here our actions.
So I don’t want you to have the impression that - or getting out of independent agency channel and personal line or fine-tuning the definition of success ultimately from a growth and profitability side.
And Meyer I would say two other points that I would like to have.
Number one our research which we’ve worked on now this past couple of years shows us that many of those AARP members do indeed prefer to work with an agent.
So we’re excited about the progress we’ve made there.
And secondly my comment about the number of agents that have been deauthorized for AARP those were essentially relationships that had leveraged the value of what we thought we brought to the table with this enhanced offering.
So in the case that they haven’t leveraged that we’d rather be contracted with those that are using it.
And we think there’s great value there.
And working like crazy to build a very very positive profile of customers that value our brand and our AARP members.
Okay.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you.
Second question when you look at the different channels that you’ve got AARP AARP agents et cetera is there a difference in terms of frequency shifts by channel? Are you seeing I would expect less uptick in AARP? Is that panning out? As we look at our trends across 2015 they’re essentially very consistent across the channel.
So our frequency uptick in third quarter and also fourth quarter as well as the very flat profile for the first half of the year were essentially consistent across the channel.
I think that leads down a path toward this economic dynamic with weather in the fourth quarter and a summer month vacation schedule in July and August that we felt the impact of as did many others.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Randy Binner from FBR Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I got a couple more on personal lines.
I guess the first question is there was a notion earlier recently as last conference call that the AARP book was a more mature group of individuals who were safer drivers.
And so I just want to check in on that dynamic.
Is that overtaken by the I guess the miles driven argument that’s going on here.
And if you quantify this - I missed it I apologize - but are you getting on auto pricing price increase-wise is the 4% 5% 6% bip? It would nice to hear that quantification because we are getting those numbers from other carriers.
Randy it’s Chris.
Let me just take just a step back and then Doug and I will partner on this one here.
I think your point on AARP is still generally true but if you look at sort of the progression of activity over the last 12 months Doug said is earlier.
First half of the year is relatively benign from a frequency side and we’re seeing normal severity trends in the 2% to 3%.
I think what happened in July and August is we saw a little bit of a pop in frequency.
Then September October it went back to sort of normal in that 1% range.
And Beth and I then had an opportunity to speak at a conference in early December where then we gave an indication that we thought November would be in that 1% range also and sort of smooth out the year.
But as we got into December we had another sort of blip in frequency.
And that impacted our quals on how we thought ultimately November frequency would develop.
So there’s a little bit of a lag factor that you have to put on this frequency trend.
So when you put the third and fourth quarters together as Doug said we’re in that 3.5% to 4% range.
I think our thesis still is that economic activity defined by low employment miles driven up due to lower gasoline prices coupled with particularly in November then December some weather in the Southwest Midwest and West whether it be rain sort of torrential rains at California experienced - and California is our largest personal line state - or other weather activity.
All that contributed to I’ll call it the increase in frequency incidences.
That said over a longer period of time the AARP book still outperforms a mass market book so that when we’re talking about 3.5% 4% frequency increases wish they’ll think that is a lot lower than a broad mass market increase in frequency.
So as Doug said we are beginning and have particularly with a fourth quarter filing and a couple of our - one of our large states we have in essence we reflected this new level of activity in our filings.
And we’ll continue to do that in 2016 and earn that out and manage actions such as underwriting or agency management actions as Doug described.
I think that is the context that I just would have you to keep in mind.
So Doug would you follow up? Chris I think you hit most of the major points.
I think maybe a few to add.
One is I would not underestimate our view of how much the non-rate activity should improve our performance over time Randy.
So these agency actions and really becoming a better underwriter.
I’m thinking about selection and undisclosed drivers and appetite management and geography.
Those are all meaningful priorities for us and we expect over the next year to two years.
That’s point one.
Point two is I don’t think that dramatic change in our numbers were quite as dramatic as some of the other carriers we compete with.
So yes our frequency was not flat for the second half of the year.
But it was mid-single three-ish three to four.
So that’s not 8 10 12.
It’s having an impact on our filings it will be proportional to state.
But we wanted to send the message today that we’re not just at a point where we’re thinking it was a blip on the radar and we’re not going to adjust our patterns going forward.
Okay.
Thank you for all that.
So your price would be something like 2% to 3% is that the right was to think of it? Our price filings are still in that mid-single digit range and probably will increase from there on auto going into 2016.
Got.
Okay.
Thank you.
And Randy it’s Chris.
All I said is I mentioned severity is not zero either right? So I mean there are still more expensive cars and bumpers and devices to fix in cars when there are accidents.
So I just want to be clear that severity is in that 2% 3% range also.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Erik Bass from Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Can you remind us about the composition of your alternative investment portfolio? And in your guidance I think you assumed a 6% return for the year.
But do you have early read on the first quarter results just given the market decline that we’ve seen year-to-date and the lag in reporting for some of the funds? Erik I could get that to you.
But I would just ensure focus on first quarter.
First quarter is going to start out soft here just given market activities and the lag.
Yes.
So a couple of things.
And we do provide a breakout of our partnership investments and our 10-Qs and Ks so you can see the update.
Obviously we file the K at the end of the month.
But when you think about our total partnerships where we ended 2015 at about $2.9 billion of assets about $1.8 billion of that is in private equity and real estate funds and the rest would be in hedge funds.
And when we think about our returns in total we plan for a blended sort of 6% return.
We anticipate higher returns in the private equity funds and a bit lower in the hedge funds.
And as Chris just said as we think about first quarter a couple of things to keep in mind.
For the private equity fund those are on a quarter lag.
So what we report in first quarter will really be where they ended 2015.
And for the hedge funds they are at about a one month lag.
And looking at what we expect to see for January results we expect to see a little bit of downtick in the hedge fund performance and we’ll just have to see how February comes in to see where we actually close the quarter.
Got it.
Thank you.
And then Beth could you just clarify one thing on Talcott? I for your guidance I think you mentioned that it’s as of on the market at 12-31.
Can you just give us a sense of how much impact the equity market movements have on earnings for Talcott now given obviously the shrinking of the VA book? Yes.
So a couple of things.
So the rule of thumb what we typically look at is that for every 1% change and sort of an annualized look at S&amp;P that’s about $2 million to $3 million of quarter earnings.
So when you think about how markets have declined since yearend and sort of extrapolate that right now looking at it you’d probably say about 15 million after tax sort of pressure on the quarter earnings number.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Thomas Gallagher from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Few questions.
First is just in terms of your energy exposure if you could start with that.
It looks to me like you’ve been one of the more proactive companies in terms of derisking from a credit standpoint on energy.
Would you say you’re pretty much done with the significant reduction for that portfolio? And also related to that how much of a gain did you book on the derivatives that were short oil as an offset against some of these impairments? It’s Chris.
I appreciate the observation of our proactivity regarding risk.
So yes we had been very proactive with our Hemco investment management professionals our Chief Risk Officer Beth myself so we did make some early moves that turned out to be good and wise.
Beth could give you the details on the exact percentage decline.
But we took out approximately $1 billion of oil holdings in our portfolio.
When we did that we also decided to put on a more of catastrophic hedge on oil prices if it crashed for a long period of time.
But Beth would you just comment about some of the details? Yes.
So a couple of things.
So as I said we ended the year with our portfolio at about $2.6 billion.
About 91% of that is in investment grade securities.
And then a little obviously the rest in below investment grade with 745 of that at a BB rating.
So as I said here today we feel very good about our holdings.
And as always we’ll continue to monitor it.
And so if there are other actions we need to take we would take them.
But right now we felt very well-positioned with all of the actions that we took over the course of 2015.
As it relates to the oil hedges as Chris said we put that on in early 2015 because as we looked at our portfolio we knew that we did want to reduce our exposure there and we wanted some protection so that if prices were to decline significantly before we’re able to do that we had some offset.
So actually the hedge position we unwound mid-December because we’re basically done with our activities and we were put at a modest loss of about $9 million on it before tax.
But again overall very very happy with the actions that we took and the position that we find ourselves in today.
Okay thanks.
And then next question is just on the group benefits side.
Doug can you comment on - results are softer this quarter.
It looks like you’re assuming margins consistent with the full year.
Should we take that to mean the fluctuation you saw on 4Q were just on the adverse side you don’t see any change there? Or do you need some rate there to get to the results that you’re predicting for 2016 or you’re forecasting for 2016? Yes good question Tom.
I think that our full year results are more reflective of how we deal about group.
There was some fine-tuning at yearend.
We had a little adverse mortality and severity in our life block.
And a little bit of activity in LTD not anything major.
And as I look at the full year I still feel very good about the health of our overall book of business and our ability to compete in the marketplace.
So we move ahead into 2016 feeling good about the progress made.
So Doug no material rate needed in that business from where you’re sitting? We still want to stay ahead of trend.
So we’ve got medical and other trends in that book of business that will impact our future plans and activities.
But I don’t see anything out of the ordinary difference than how we would have thought about pricing over the last 12 to 18 months.
Okay.
Tom this is Chris.
Our interest rates obviously are - I think if you look at our discount rates of how we’re going to discount our implied discount and our liabilities are appropriate.
But as Doug said I mean it’s a great business for us.
It’s a major contributor of our growth orientation and our strategies.
It’s integral.
And I’m glad you’re recognizing its potential.
Okay.
Thanks Chris.
And then just one last one on Talcott.
And this is sort of a bigger picture question to think about not so much specific numbers related to beyond 2016.
But I just want to understand conceptually how you’re thinking about this.
So you’ve obviously taken out a combination of extraordinary dividends plus the earnings generation at that business for last few years here or at least in 2015 and then the plan in 2016.
But if I think about the shrinkage of that block it looks like it is slowing a bit on the VA side.
And now the majority of capital is non-VA related and those liabilities seem to be stickier.
So as we think about our path over the next two three years is it fair to say more of the dividends coming out will just be earnings or do you still think there’s a lot of latitude for taking out the bigger extraordinary dividends as well.
Tom Beth can comment on her views.
But I think generally you’re right with the view if you look at the capital allocation.
We’ve got a lot of capital tied up in I call it the fixed annuities.
But again the amount of derisking that the book has gone through the hedge protection the sensitivities that Beth gave you on capital margins it still says that we have the ability to extract some excess capital out as the block shrinks and as we produce earning.
Math-wise it’s hard for us to predict right now but that’s what I would say.
Beth.
Yes I agree with that.
I mean again you go back we took out $1 billion of dividends last year and we anticipate taking $750 million out this year.
What I think about 2017 and 2018 to your point I first think about the capital that we generate $200 million to $300 million range which I would point out still requires extraordinary dividend approval even though its earnings.
It’s a capital position of Talcott.
And then I do see there being the potential for excess capital beyond that.
But when I think about going into 2017 I don’t anticipate the dividends being higher than what they were in 2016.
And as we go through the course of the year we’ll obviously continue to update that but you’re right it would be on a downward trajectory not increasing when we think about the excess capital.
That’s helpful.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And Jessa I think we have one more question in the queue.
We certainly do.
Your last question comes from the line of Bob Glasspiegel from Janney.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Doug just a quick question on personal.
Your outlook midpoint of the range is a one point improvement for personal lines.
And in light of the fact that you’re just trying to sort of address personal lines auto pricing for the changed frequency environment and you’re growing [indiscernible] in the second half does that suggest that homeowners can offset sort of auto being in the fix mode or are there some things you can do on the expense side it gives you confidence that you can show an improvement? So Bob you now have the sense that we’re working numerous levers on both home and auto.
And I do think that the first half of the year in auto will be a tough compare relative to frequency because basically they had none in the first half of last year.
But they’re underwriting actions.
And these agency actions I described we think will improve our results over time.
It’s not going to be easy.
And as you know it takes a while for these actions to earn their way in.
Both Chris and I are committed to making those changes and we believe we can hit the targets that we have out there.
But we’ve got a lot of work to do in front of us no question.
And I look at headwinds into 2016 personal lines is probably just at the top of that list for the need for us to work through change to get these books in a better financial state.
Okay.
You don’t think having to put on the gas pedal in the second half contributed all to the deterioration.
It’s more macro trends.
We believe so.
We’ve been very selective about where we put the gas pedal on.
We’ve talked to you about the fact that we’ve got a new class plan that have went in two years ago.
And it’s been rolling in over time.
But Ray Sprague and his team have been very analytical about how we’ve built in our marketing plans where we’re advertising.
AARP obviously is at the core of that Bob.
We look at it by state so we’re very targeted in terms of within those states what we’re doing.
But I will also say to you that the overall answer is still not working.
So we have more work to be done and confident that we’re on the right path with the renewed team actively engaged to get it done in 2016 and 2017 as we move forward.
Well awesome.
Thanks Doug.
Thank you everyone for joining us today and for your interest in the Hartford.
Please note for your calendars that Chris Swift and Beth Bombara will be at the Merrill Lynch conference on February 10th.
And in addition Beth and Brion Johnson our Chief Investment Officer and Head of Talcott will be at the AFA conference in Florida at the end of February and early March.
We hope to see you at either or both of those events.
Again we thank you for your interest in the Hartford and please do not hesitate to follow up with the investor relations team if you have any other questions.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.