Good morning.
My name is Andrea and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Harley-Davidson First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to our host Ms.
Amy Giuffre Director of Investor Relations.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Harley-Davidson's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is being webcast live on harley-davidson.com where you will also find slides containing supporting details.
The slides can be accessed by clicking on Investor Relations then Events and Presentations.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks that could cause actual results to be materially different.
Those risks include among others matters we have noted in our latest earnings release and filings with the SEC.
Harley-Davidson disclaims any obligation to update information in this call.
This morning you'll hear Harley-Davidson's CEO Keith Wandell; CFO John Olin; and President of Harley-Davidson Financial Services Larry Hund.
At the close of prepared comments we will open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] So let's get started.
Keith? Well thank you Amy.
And good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on the call today.
It's been nearly 2 years since I joined Harley-Davidson as CEO.
And in that time through the hard work and dedication of all of our employees we've undertaken one of the biggest transformations in the company's history.
From a foundation as one of the most iconic brands in the world we are transforming Harley-Davidson to be leaner more agile and more effective than ever at delivering great products and experiences to an increasingly global community of customers.
We are making great progress and today we reported further evidence of this renewal with earnings per share up more than 75% from the year-ago period and worldwide retail new motorcycle sales turning positive up 3.5%.
Dealer new retail motorcycle sales in international markets grew more than 11% during the quarter with Europe in particular showing strength and the U.S.
was nearly level with the year ago.
And while it's good to see this overall retail improvement we have said all along that we would have a cautious outlook for the year particularly in the United States.
We now have the market share data for new on-road motorcycle sales for 2010 and again Harley-Davidson was the #1 seller in the U.S.
to young adults ages 18 to 34.
In fact we increased our market share among these customers to more than 30%.
And just to be clear that's in sales to young adults across all sizes of on-road motorcycles.
In just the heavyweight category we had nearly 1/2 of all young adults sales last year.
The story is similar for on-road new motorcycle sales among other demographic groups as well.
We increased our market share among U.S.
women selling more than 1/2 of all new motorcycles sold to these riders.
Our dealers sold nearly 1/2 of all the new motorcycles sold to Hispanic customers and we increased our market share across all CCs among African-Americans to nearly 43%.
We are pleased to see these results which reflect the impact of our multi-generational and multicultural strategy.
Regarding our financial performance.
In the first quarter we saw earnings improvements at HDFS [Harley-Davidson Financial Services].
The team at HDFS has done an outstanding job of managing that business.
On the Motorcycle side of the business we announced this morning that we could see a modest effect on shipments this year as a result of a subcomponent supply issue related to last month's earthquake in Japan.
First our hearts go out to the people of Japan in the aftermath of the tragic events there.
And I just want to recognize all the members of the Harley-Davidson family in Japan where our employees and dealers are truly doing a remarkable job under a very difficult circumstances.
Relative to our production operations the transformation that's underway continues to move full speed ahead and we expected to yield outstanding dividends over the long haul not only in terms of financial returns but also in our ability to be much more customer led in our production capabilities.
Here too our employees are doing some monumental work.
However it's important to remember that we expect short-term inefficiencies as we make the transition at York.
In the first quarter we reached another milestone in the transformation of our motorcycle operations with the ratification of the new labor agreement at our Kansas City plant which follows the ratification of new agreements in Wisconsin last fall.
We are now through the cycle of contract negotiations.
Working with our union leadership we now have 7-year agreements in place in all of our facilities.
And now it's all hands on deck in implementing the changes that will lead us to the future by being more flexible and customer led.
While we are in the midst of a lot of change our employees are excited and energized because through our strategy we are taking one of the world's greatest iconic brands to the many roads of the world.
We are ensuring like never before that we're customer led in all we do making customers' dreams a reality by delivering remarkable products and extraordinary experiences.
And we are transforming the business in ways that preserve Harley-Davidson's great heritage even as we explore new ways to grow the reach of our brand globally.
While there are very many challenges ahead these are exciting times for our company and we are pleased with our progress.
So in closing I want to thank all of our employees dealers and suppliers for their outstanding efforts to move Harley-Davidson forward.
I continue to be impressed with their dedication and commitment.
I'll be back later for questions.
So let me turn it over to John for details on the quarter.
Thanks Keith and good morning everyone.
I'll review the financial results starting on Slide 10 with the first quarter results.
During the quarter Harley-Davidson Inc.
consolidated revenue was up 1.5% behind the 0.3% increase in shipments of Harley-Davidson motorcycles.
Our first quarter income from continuing operations improved to $119.3 million an increase of 73.5%.
Similarly diluted earnings per share rose to $0.51 per share up from the year-ago quarter which was $0.29 per share.
Our improved financial performance for the quarter was driven by strong operating income at HDFS and lower year-over-year interest expense as a result of last December's repurchase of $297 million of high interest notes and a lower effective tax rate than last year's first quarter.
Operating income from the Motorcycle business was flat to last year's first quarter as lower gross margin largely impacted by the inefficiencies at York was offset by lower spending and our ongoing restructuring activities.
We are pleased with the quarter's results and our continued progress against our growth strategies and transformation of our business.
Moving on to retail sales on Slide 11.
Worldwide retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles were up 3.5% in the first quarter driven by strength of international sales which were up 11.3% in the quarter compared to last year.
In the U.S.
retail sales in the quarter were down 0.5% and market share was 53.4% down 1.9 percentage points from year ago and down slightly from the historical high we reached at the end of last year.
I would like to recognize the continued efforts and progress of our U.S.
dealers despite the impact of challenging macroeconomic conditions which include persistently high unemployment falling home values and low consumer confidence.
The U.S.
dealer network is facing fierce price competition from deep competitive discounting and from strong values on used Harley-Davidson motorcycles.
Strength in the international markets was primarily driven by Europe region which was up 22.7% compared to last year.
The year-over-year improvement was consistent with most countries in our Europe region and was aided by improved product availability compared to the first quarter of 2010 especially with respect to Sportster motorcycles which was impacted by the shutdown of our Kansas City plant in the fourth quarter of 2009.
Canada sales were also up 7.5% during the quarter.
The Asia-Pacific region was down 3.9% driven primarily by the impact on retail sales related to the natural disaster in Japan and severe flooding in Australia.
And the Latin America region was down 5.4% as we closed the previously existing dealer network in Brazil and started the process of appointing new dealers.
This was planned as part of the agreement that was announced in December 2010 to terminate the exclusive dealer contract that was in place and allows us to expand our presence in Brazil.
On Slide 12 you will see wholesale shipments of Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the quarter were about flat to last year and within our expected range of 51 000 to 56 000 motorcycles.
First quarter shipments were not impacted by the aftermath of the earthquake in Japan.
Shipment makes up Touring custom and Sportster motorcycles were all within historical ranges.
Slide 13 summarizes a few key points about our dealer network in the U.S.
As I mentioned last quarter as a result of stronger-than-expected fourth quarter 2010 retail sales the U.S.
dealer network's 2010 year-end inventory was at the lowest level in many years and below what we believe is at appropriate ongoing level.
During the first quarter in the U.S.
we shipped about 35 000 Harley-Davidson motorcycles and our dealers sold roughly 32 000 at retail.
While U.S.
dealer inventory increased modestly over Q4 2010 levels in preparation for the spring selling season it was down about 10 500 units compared to the first quarter of 2010.
We continue to believe aggregate dealer inventory in the U.S.
is below an appropriate level to keep our brand healthy and execute our growth strategy.
And therefore even with a modest shipment guidance adjustment announced today we expect to replenish a portion of dealer inventory by year end.
We will continue to aggressively manage the supply of new bikes in line with demand while we also support the dealer's efforts to sell more used bikes.
Healthy used bikes sales enhance dealer revenue maintain resale values and narrow the gap between new and used motorcycle pricing.
Used bikes sales through the U.S.
dealer network were up double digits through February compared to the same period last year.
When you combine these strong used Harley-Davidson sales with new retail sales in the U.S.
total demand for Harley-Davidson motorcycles continues to be strong.
As the economic conditions continued to be challenging dealers continued to proactively manage their businesses and we believe the U.S.
dealer network in aggregate remains profitable.
On Slide 14 you will see revenue for the Motorcycles and Related Products segment was up in the first quarter.
During the quarter average motorcycle revenue for Harley-Davidson units sold increased $414 from the prior year as a result of favorable mix and currency exchange.
Parts and Accessories sales were up over 10% during the quarter driven in part by a focus on product availability high demand for our new accessory product offerings and growth in worldwide retail motorcycle sales.
General Merchandise was down 5.6% in the first quarter compared to last year largely related to the timing of delivery of products between the first and second quarters of this year.
Turning to restructuring on Slide 15.
Our efforts to improve our cost structure and transform the business to be stronger and more profitable in future are well underway.
During the first quarter we incurred $23 million in restructuring expenses which was about $25 million less than last year's first quarter when we incurred charges associated with the initial implementation of York's new labor agreement.
Our expected full year total costs and savings associated with our restructuring activities are summarized on the slide.
The summary also includes the expected cost savings and associated changes to our Kansas City operations that Keith mentioned.
On Slide 16 you'll see gross margin in the quarter was 33.1% 3.5 percentage points lower than the same quarter last year.
Gross margin for the quarter was impacted by 4 key drivers: First foreign currency exchange was unfavorable by $6 million during the first quarter.
Next mix was favorable by $5.3 million despite a higher percentage mix of Sportsters versus higher margin Touring and custom motorcycles.
Mix was positively impacted by mix within families and by our power-packed options offered at the start of the 2011 model year.
Raw materials were unfavorable $5.7 million due to increasing metals and fuel costs.
And finally as expected manufacturing costs for the first quarter were unfavorable as productivity was impacted by temporary inefficiencies at our York facility as we restructure and transform our operations at that site.
As we have discussed for the past couple of quarters the magnitude of change that is occurring at York is quite significant.
It includes restraining our entire workforce on a new operating system outsourcing nearly 2 000 non-core parts and subassemblies moving and reconfiguring production lines implementing a new ERP system and redefining our vehicle delivery process.
The restructuring of our York facility is expected to be largely complete in the first half of next year.
Through the next several quarters we continue to expect York deficiencies will be adversely impacted by restructuring activities.
Also reflected in the manufacturing line on the slide are higher product costs compared to last year due to new features and content that are offered on model year 2011 motorcycles.
On Slide 17 operating margin as a percent of revenue for the first quarter was 11.8% versus 12.2% in 2010.
Operating margin was negatively impacted by lower gross margin which was largely offset by lower restructuring spending as we lap last year's first quarter which included significant charges associated with York's new labor contract.
SG&amp;A was slightly lower during the quarter compared to the same period last year as we continued to carefully manage our expenses while we invest in our growth strategy.
As we have previously stated we expect SG&amp;A spending will decline as a percent of revenue between 2009 and 2014.
Now moving on to our Financial Services segment on Slide 18.
In the first quarter HDFS posted a $67.9 million operating profit an improvement of $41.2 million compared to last year.
The key drivers of the first quarter results were: net interest income of $12.6 million higher in the first quarter of 2011 versus the first quarter of 2010 due to widening interest rate spreads driven by lower cost of funds on a lower receivable base; the provision for retail credit losses was $28.8 million lower in the first quarter of 2011 versus first quarter 2010 primarily due to improved credit loss rates as a result of favorable retail receivable performance.
During the quarter HDFS reduced the total allowance for credit losses by $14 million to $159.7 million to reflect lower anticipated credit losses.
Now Larry will provide more detail on HDFS's operations.
Larry? Thanks John and good morning.
During the first quarter HDFS originated $453.7 million in retail motorcycle loans up 21.2% compared to the same period last year primarily due to higher used Harley-Davidson motorcycle loan originations.
This corresponds to the increasing number of used Harley-Davidson motorcycle sales being made by the dealer network.
HDFS also increased its share of new Harley-Davidson loan originations growing retail market share by 5.3 percentage points to 47.4% during the first quarter compared to the same period last year.
At the end of the first quarter of the approximately $6.2 billion of finance receivables $5.2 billion were retail and $1 billion were wholesale.
At the end of the quarter over 50% of the retail portfolio was comprised of loans originated after underwriting changes were made in January 2009.
Consistent with recent quarters retail loan originations were 80% to 85% prime.
The 30-day delinquency rate for managed retail motorcycle loans at the end of the first quarter was 3.68% or 89 basis points better than the same period last year.
Annual retail credit losses improved by 125 basis points to 1.58% in the first quarter compared to the first quarter last year.
This improvement was driven by the impact of changes in underwriting as well as lower frequency of loss and improvement in the recovery values of repossessed motorcycles.
We are pleased with the continued improvement in credit performance during the first quarter but we'll continue to monitor the unemployment picture motorcycle recovery values and the pace of the recovery in the U.S.
consumer environment.
During the first quarter HDFS delivered increased profits maintained a strong liquidity position and reduced our cost of funds.
We remain focused on enabling retail sales of Harley-Davidson motorcycles while providing an appropriate return to Harley-Davidson Inc.
Now let me turn it back to John.
Thanks Larry.
Now let's take a look at cash and liquidity on Slide 21.
As we mentioned during the Q4 conference call HDFS paid $125 million dividend to H-D Inc.
during the first quarter reflective of HDFS's reduced capital needs on a lower receivables balance.
HDFS remains focused on delivering an appropriate return on equity and prudently managing its debt-to-equity ratio.
Also during the quarter H-D Inc.
made a $200 million contribution to our qualified pension plans which reduced our pension and postretirement liability to $354 million.
You'll see at the end of the quarter we had $1.05 billion of cash and marketable securities.
In addition HDFS had approximately $1.24 billion of available liquidity through bank credit and conduit facilities.
For our cash and liquidity strategy we continued to maintain a minimum of 12 months of projected liquidity needs in cash and/or committed credit facilities.
Now I'll review the remaining Harley-Davidson Inc.
financials on Slide 22.
I would like to highlight 2 items on this slide: First with regards to continuing operations the company used operating cash of $105 million during the first quarter driven by the $200 million contribution to our pension plans.
And second our effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 34.8% compared to 47.2% in 2010.
The Q1 2010 tax rate was negatively impacted by a onetime tax charge of $13.3 million associated with the federal health care reform legislation.
In 2011 we continue to expect full year effective income tax rate will be approximately 35%.
Now turning to guidance on Slide 23.
Based on what we know today about the anticipated subcomponent supply issue related to the aftermath of the earthquake in Japan we have made a modest adjustment by reducing the low end of our shipment guidance to account for the uncertainty.
We now expect full year 2011 Harley-Davidson motorcycle shipments to be between 215 000 and 228 000 units up 2% to 8% from 2010.
During the second quarter we expect to ship between 62 000 and 67 000 units.
We are also reducing the low end of our 2011 gross margin guidance.
We now expect gross margin will be between 33.5% and 35% for the full year due to incremental costs and potential unfavorable impact of mix and lost absorption associated with the expected supply chain disruption.
We continue to expect capital expenditures to be between $210 million and $230 million which includes between $60 million and $75 million of capital related to restructuring.
As we look back on the first quarter 2011 while the global economies continue to be challenged we are happy to report our first retail sales growth since before the economic downturn took hold.
We are also pleased to see strong profits at HDFS and progress with our restructuring and transformation of the Motorcycle business.
We are encouraged by the progress being made in our international markets with Europe and Canada retail sales well over last year's levels Brazil already appointing new dealers to serve our customer in that market and in Asia where we're humbled by the resilience and courage of our employees and our dealers as they manage in the wake of tragedy.
And as I mentioned earlier we continue to be pleased by the efforts of our U.S.
dealers as they face challenges.
Overall we're excited about the long term as we execute our strategy to transform and grow our business.
We will continue to manage the business prudently and have adjusted guidance as we navigate through the uncertainties that 2011 might bring.
We'll also remain disciplined in the execution of our growth strategy throughout the year.
The supply chain issues from Japan are certainly a bump in the road but the fundamentals of our business are strong and we won't be deterred as we make progress along our journey to growth and we remain focused on delivering strong margins strong returns and value to our shareholders.
Thank you for your continued confidence and investment in Harley-Davidson.
And now let's open the call up to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Sharon Zackfia with William Blair.
John I was hoping you could give us some kind of incremental color on the cadence of the inefficiencies I presume at York that is pressuring gross margin.
I think it was $21 million or so in the quarter if I'm not mistaken.
Is that something that becomes less pronounced as the year goes on? Or if you could help us think about that.
Yes Sharon.
The inefficiencies of York during the quarter -- well let's take a step back.
Let's look at overall gross margin and let's step back to what we had discussed last quarter when we issued initial gross margin guidance of 34% to 35%.
Sure we said several things would happen.
First 3 things that would positively affect gross margin: First was that gross margin would benefit from continued productivity and restructuring savings in the neighborhood of $50 million.
And that's on the restructuring slide and certainly in line to deliver that.
Next we said we expected incremental margin from higher shipment volumes behind our initial guidance of up 5% to 8%.
And finally we said we expected modest mix favorability that would largely hit in the first half before we lap the benefits of the power-pack introduction.
We then said that these positive impacts to gross margin would be partially offset by headwinds from foreign currency exchange higher raw material costs.
And finally we said that we would incur temporary inefficiencies at our York facility as we continued to outsource non-core parts and cut assembly operations over to a single line.
Now let's look at the first quarter results and how we did against that.
First currency was unfavorable by $6 million in the quarter or 6/10 of a gross margin point.
Next mix was favorable despite higher shipment mix of Sportsters.
This was more than offset by the favorable mix within families and take rate on the power-pack option.
Raw materials were unfavorable by nearly $6 million and that was driven by -- largely by steel aluminum and copper.
And then we had significantly higher fuel costs.
And finally manufacturing costs were unfavorable despite the fact that volumes were flat.
When we look at that -- when we talk about the flat volumes first -- I'm sorry we talked about having incremental margin on a full year basis.
Given the flat volumes in the first quarter we didn't get any benefit from incremental margins but we still anticipate incremental margins will benefit us as we grow volumes for the remainder of the year and on a full year basis up 2% to 8%.
And that should start to come in the second quarter as we've got our volume call up 3% to 7%.
Again favorable manufacturing variance is largely explained by 2 items: First we had the higher product costs driven by features and content that ratted at the model year.
And then second is the manufacturing cost that were temporarily -- the temporary inefficiencies associated with the transformation of our York facility.
These were about $11 million in the quarter.
And again we will expect them to continue throughout the transformation which will run through the second half -- I'm sorry the first half of next year.
The year-over-year cost of these will improve as we move into the back half of this year.
So as we lap the cost that started in the third quarter of last year and so last year Sharon about $5 million in each quarter I think it was $5 million -- $4 million in the third quarter and $5 million in the fourth quarter that we had last year $11 million in the first quarter of this year.
And again those expenses should taper off as we continue the execution and the transformation through the first half of next year.
And on a year-over-year basis they'll will be mitigated by lapping year-over-year cost in the back half of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Aaron with RBC Capital.
LLC</strong> I just wanted to go back to your comments earlier about the market share performance in the quarter and kind of slipping back down a little bit.
I think you mentioned competitive discounting and strong values in used did you use comments does that mean to imply that the pricing on used bikes is still relatively low and that's affecting new bike sales? Did I interpret that correctly? Because the demand there seems pretty good so I'm wondering why pricing might not be firming more.
Well Ed prices are firming and we've seen prices firm over the next several quarters and they continue to firm in the first quarter.
Overall sales though of used bikes and as we look at registrations those are a month delayed.
Through February used bikes did sell very briskly.
They were up from February 23.4%.
And that drove our total demand for Harley-Davidson motorcycles.
When you look at both new and used motorcycles total demand was up 18%.
So if we step back and look at what happened last year on a full year basis total demand was up 3.1% which was driven by used bike sales up 11.8% and new bikes down 11.7%.
And obviously the new bike sales rate of decline improved as we went through last year.
And so now into the first quarter or into the first two months of the year used bikes continue to sell well.
So we are clearing a lot of used bikes from the market should which is good and in line with our strategy to narrow the gap between new and used pricing.
And so we do have brisk sales as well as rising prices on used bikes.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just maybe one more follow-up on the market share question.
Dealers are getting to be kind of concerned about the limited availability of product out there.
And I'm kind of wondering if maybe we're at of point where production is almost starting to lead retail instead of retail leading production.
Would you agree with that statement? Well it's in line with our strategy to aggressively manage supply in line with demand.
So when we look at the first quarter inventories are low.
They're 10 500 lower than they were a year ago.
And in aggregate on an ongoing basis we do believe that they're lower than what we would like to see moving forward and we will fix that by the end of the year by putting a little bit more inventory in or ultimately shipping in a little bit more than our dealers retail for the year.
LLC</strong> Thanks for taking the question.
Your next question comes from the line of James Hardiman with Longbow Research.
Thanks for taking my call.
I'm going to ask Ed's question in a slightly different way and then I had a question about second quarter guidance.
But ultimately when you think about the disruptions taking place at York do you think that a lack of product hurt retail sales during the quarter? I mean when you look at certainly your shipment numbers Touring shipments were down although overall retail was up a little bit.
Do you think the retail numbers -- certainly in our conversations with dealers it seems like these guys are clamoring for Touring bikes.
Anecdotally are you seeing that? Yes.
Overall dealers are certainly clamoring for product and I think more acute on the Touring side.
And again this is in line James with our strategy of limiting new bike supply to improve the price gap between new and used.
And we're seeing that happen in the quarter.
So the question is: are we missing any sales because of tight inventories? I don't think that is significant.
And if we are we don't believe we're losing them to the competition.
What we would do is we are seeing some customers wait to get the exact model and color that they've wanted.
And it's going to take a little bit of time to get that as the dealers go through all the dealer network or they wait for the bike to be shipped.
The second thing that we're seeing and it's certainly in line with our strategy is that a lot of customers are opting to buy used bikes.
And again that is firming up used bike prices and until we get that relationship a little bit tighter then we'll start to see a shift toward more new bike sales versus used bikes.
So everything is moving as we expected and as we hoped in the first quarter.
And again overall total demand through February is up over 18%.
Thanks.
And to that point second quarter guidance up basically 5% to 13% in terms of shipments.
You've talked about a little bit of inventory fill this year.
Is the second quarter increase in shipments more about inventory fill or is it more about better strength that you're seeing at retail? And I guess also related to that when you talk about the Japanese disruption is that a second quarter event? In other words would your guidance have been higher in the second quarter had it not been for the Japanese disruption? Or is that a "later on in the year" type of an event? Given -- with regards to your first question James is most of the inventory fill we're getting inventories a little bit more in line with an ongoing steady state of inventory will happen more in the back half of the year not in the second quarter.
And with regards to the second question it's no.
Our guidance has not been affected by the supply disruption in Japan.
We would expect that to be more in the second half.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Kennison with Robert W.
Baird.
Thanks for taking my question.
I want to focus on the tragedy in Japan as well.
You mentioned a supply chain impact but what do you see as the demand impact? I think you sold about 11 000 bikes in that market at retail last year.
And then secondly how do you see the supply chain impact affecting your mix? Is it more severe for Touring bikes for example than for Sportsters? The overall impact on the quarter in Japan is you'll notice from the financials of the press release was down 9.3%.
And clearly the run rate or our sales rate changed dramatically from March 11 to the end of the month.
Again as Keith has mentioned our team is doing a wonderful job of keeping product flowing.
We do expect that the events in Japan will have an impact on retail sales on a full year basis but you got to keep in mind that it's only 5% of our overall sales.
So while it will have an impact we'll work through that.
Secondly Craig your second question was on the supply chain disruption and I believe mix.
Right.
How might that supply chain disruption impact mix? Is it disproportionately bad for your Touring line? Yes.
The -- well let's start with what we know.
Harley-Davidson is a direct supplier supplier supports -- I’m sorry source a limited number of components including electronics.
We've confirmed that all of our Tier 1 suppliers are up and running and there's no issue.
However suppliers of our suppliers -- we have identified a supply issue and that's with a chip used in our radios from a sub-tier supplier.
So based on what we know today we're looking at -- we have viable paths to resolve the radio issue but we do expect the supply interruption of radios that we anticipate could cause us to adjust the timing the mix or the overall volume of shipments in the back half.
So because it's a radio chip Craig it will affect only the -- a portion of our Touring motorcycle line.
And again we've got an incredibly talented team of people working on it and we do have viable paths to resolve it but we're taking a prudent and cautious approach in lowering volumes and letting everyone know that there is an issue and that we're working through it as expeditiously as we can.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Conder with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Let me follow on the gross margin line of questioning with a couple of components there.
John and Keith it seemed worrying though in the press release and John just of what you said you believe you have viable alternatives it sounds largely though that you're going to be able to mitigate the Japanese supplier issue.
I mean is that the current feeling? And then as it relates to I guess cadence of impact on gross margin the $50 million in cost savings any direction you can give us with that from the first quarter? And then it appeared obviously that that's going to ramp throughout the year but any additional color you could give there.
And then finally on the gross margin the FX headwind was that -- is there some negative hedging impacts there that caused that to be negative? Just a little more color on that.
This is Keith.
I'll start off with the supply issue.
I'll let John talk about the gross margins.
And again John mentioned it; we have a full court press on in terms of understanding the impact of everyone of our suppliers subcomponent suppliers et cetera.
And we believe as we -- and this is a very fluid situation even 1.5 month or so after the tragedy.
But we believe as we sit here today we have mitigation in place for all these issues.
There could be a question around timing say giving a supply from a new supplier for a certain chip or whatever that might be.
And that's why we're being very cautious in terms of changing our bottom end guidance because there could be some timing issues.
We're looking at -- we mentioned the Touring bikes.
We're looking at ways to mitigate that issue even at a retail sales level.
So our level of confidence is very high.
We're just like everything else we're doing.
We're just being very cautious that we don't overstate the possible.
LLC</strong> And Keith on what you just commented on about to mitigate the overall sales impact would that -- maybe I'm reaching a little bit here but would that imply going ahead and shipping the bike and then putting in the radio afterwards so there'll be -- obviously there'll be a little bit of a cost impact but it wouldn't be as much as missing that sale potentially? Right.
Well we're looking at several options around that so we haven't really landed on one yet.
And we have time here.
We have time to make that decision.
We're talking to our dealers.
We're making sure that anything that we do is a value add for our customers instead of some perceived negative or takeaway.
All right.
Tim the second part of your question is gross margin the $50 million.
As I had mentioned we certainly anticipate that we'll get all $50 million as the pieces of our restructuring largely at York.
But other parts of restructuring that we've got going on as they fall into place those restructuring savings will ramp.
And again as I'd mentioned the temporary inefficiencies are at varying levels depending on the activities that are going on at York.
And those will act to dampen some of the gross margin expansion.
But the $50 million we'll continue to build each quarter as we work our way through the year.
LLC</strong> And then John a rough number -- maybe how much a rough guesstimate of how much was in the first quarter? Of the temporary inefficiencies it was $11 million.
LLC</strong> Of the restructuring savings I guess.
I mean I didn't know -- I don't know if you can separate the two or...
Only provide that $50 million on a full year basis on the restructuring.
Hang on a second.
Tim this is Keith again.
I just want jump in here and say I know we keep talking about these inefficiencies at York.
Nothing happened at York that was unexpected at least from our perspective.
And we have all the confidence in the world that we are on track with this restructuring.
It's a major major undertaking.
No question.
Our people are fully engaged but we don't sit here today and say wow geez we didn't expect this or that.
And I think -- and as John mentioned it'll be mitigated as we go forward.
And what we've said all along is that by the end of 2012 this transition would be fully completed and will be into this whole new operating model that we've been implementing now for the last year 1.5 year.
LLC</strong> And so far through this process I mean you guys have been on or slightly ahead of your plan all the way along.
It's been very clear.
Yes.
And again as you think about the transition now we're right in the heart of all the outsourcing of the 2000-some components.
You can only imagine the implications of all that.
And we're in the process now of moving into the new building.
We're in the process of moving our assembly lines to a flexible assembly line where we can produce every product in every line.
We had some issues with the implementation of that as you might expect for some programming issues or whatever.
But those are things that while we would like them not to happen are things that are not the usual-unusual but sort of the usual issues that come along.
So again I think in my mind there was probably about $1 million of cost that occurred that were sort of out of what we might have expected.
And that had to do with the start-up of some lines and things like that.
But we are fully confident about where we're at and where we're going to end up here.
Finally Tim the last question you asked was on foreign exchange.
So currency was -- revenue benefited from foreign currency exchange by about $9.9 million and that was driven by a weakening dollar against the yen and the Australian dollar; we're largely flat versus the euro.
Cost of goods sold however was unfavorable by $15.9 million which is driving the $6 million of unfavorability that I spoke to in gross margin.
And that is driven largely by the remeasurement of the euro debt that we had that actually produced a gain a year ago of about $13 million.
So as you know that debt was repurchased or that debt was extinguished when we sold MV Agusta in the third quarter of last year.
So there's no comparable piece this year with that.
And then again we're left with a gain that we had a year ago of $13 million and that's what's driving the unfavorable currency exchange and gross margin of $6 million.
Your next question comes from the line of Rod Lache with Deutsche Bank.
I just was wondering since the York inefficiencies weren't unexpected could you give us a ballpark of what you'd budgeted for the full year when you gave us the gross margin guidance? We don't provide that Rod.
It's -- again the first quarter is the largest quarter that we had on the inefficiencies because of the tremendous amount of things that are cutting over in the first quarter.
We do have other things that are going to happen throughout the year and into the second quarter of next year and we expect them to taper off and then again we'll start to lap the inefficiencies that we had last year in the third and fourth quarter which were about $10 million.
You said that they would taper off quarter-to-quarter going forward is that correct? Well the inefficiencies will be at varying levels depending on the activities that are going on at York but in general the $11 million is a high watermark.
Right okay.
Yes.
Because it sounds like it could be obviously a positive once those go away so it'd be helpful to get some quantification.
And just related to that did you say that there were $10 million of costs related to additional content that you're putting into the product? No I did not say that.
Because the rest of that is $21 million.
The other large piece of the overall manufacturing on Slide 16 I believe it was would be the cost of higher product cost given the model year content that we added at the model year and that includes the Road Glide Ultra Blackline that just came out certainly the cost of power pack and ABS options.
And the revenue associated with those obviously is captured in revenue and on Slide 16 would come out in the mix section.
Again the mix was favorable as it bumped up against the unfavorable Sportster mix.
Right.
It just looks like it could be mix positive is less than the cost negative associated with that.
I'm not sure if I'm thinking about that right or wrong but...
The mix favorability would be higher than that Rod but you've got the Sportster mix which is a big negative coming in the mix as we had about 4.5 percentage points more of Sportster mix than our custom motorcycles.
And I was wondering if you can quantify raw material cost expectations for the year and whether there's any consideration being given to adjusting pricing to reflect that.
And then lastly on the mix it's helpful that you give us the mix of production.
Can you just give us a sense of whether the mix of your retail sales is similar to what you're producing currently? I'm sorry but the first question...
Raw materials.
Raw materials.
We don't provide a full year look at raw materials.
Certainly they rose higher than they were in the fourth quarter of last year.
Metals drifted up a bit but a lot of it in the newer news was on fuel cost.
I don't know the fuel costs were probably about $1.5 million to $2 million of the total.
The rest was in steel aluminum and I believe copper.
But we don't have a full year -- we don't provide a full year estimate of raw material costs but we do expect them as I said last quarter in explaining the gross margin that they will be higher on a year-over-year basis.
And we expect that trend to continue.
The mix of sales production mix in the first quarter versus the back half is we don't provide production mix but we could be affected by the mix of Touring bikes.
Again as Keith mentioned we've got viable paths to resolve the supply disruption but that might affect our mix of Touring bikes as we move into the second half.
I was more asking about the mix of retail sales whether it's kind of consistent with -- we see what your production mix is and then I understand that there obviously could be some production disruptions that presumably would be temporary.
But are your retail sales kind of matching the mix of production that we're seeing right now? Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Patrick Archambault with Goldman Sachs.
Maybe just a couple on HDFS.
Can you give us a sense first of all in terms of where you think your provisioning could go? I think you had said you had taken provisions down by -- I can't remember the exact number there's maybe like $14 million or something? You ended the year at 2.8% in 2010.
I'm not sure where that would put you now.
But can you give us a sense of as a total kind of managed receivables what kind of provisioning you would kind of shoot for coming down from that 2.8% neighborhood I guess.
Patrick this is Larry.
A couple of comments.
First we're not going to give forward-looking guidance.
What I can tell you is that the reserve at the end of the first quarter was 2.58% down from 2.80% at the end of the year.
And then obviously we go through a very disciplined process every quarter evaluating the delinquencies evaluating the credit losses during that quarter and then looking -- trying to look forward sort of over the next say 12 to 15 months and figure out where we stand and then make adjustments to the allowance based on that outlook.
So obviously we don't want to give forward-looking guidance but we did take it down 22 basis points during this quarter.
And that made up almost the total of the $14 million that John mentioned for the reduction in the allowance.
I guess -- but just to ask it a different way.
If you look back sort of the mid-part of the last decade you got down to sort of 1.2% 1.3% in terms of your allowance which would suggest on paper that you still have some potential to go if credit trends continue to go the right way which they clearly are.
Is there something that would prevent you from taking provisions to that level? Or should we at least assume that if credit trends continue to behave well there's definitely further upside from lower provisions in the HDFS bucket.
Well I would look at it and say that our retail credit losses in the first quarter were 1.58%.
And certainly we have a reserve that is higher than that at the moment.
So there is at least the potential that there could be some additional reduction if credit trends continued to be positive but that's going to depend on consumer behavior and how our portfolio performs and how our recovery values perform.
So we'll evaluate that and record it as we go forward and obviously make adjustments in our allowance for losses as we do every quarter.
One more on HDFS's.
You said your funding mix -- in terms of 2011 you've got a strategy of being a little bit more balanced which means it sounds like you're going to look to do both unsecured as well as ABS.
How should we think about the cost aspects of that? Because clearly it's going to be a little bit more expensive obviously to do medium-term notes that ABS.
So is that something that -- can you give us a sense of maybe order of magnitude what kind of funding mix you might move to and whether that is something that could constrain net interest margins? Sure.
I mean obviously once again we're not going to project where we're going to be in the future.
But just to give you a sense I think our last securitization we did in 2010 I think the all-in cost and everything was probably about 1.5%.
We did our $450 million unsecured deal here in the quarter.
The overall cost of that was a little below 4%.
So you can see the difference in cost when you're dealing with that mix.
Obviously I think it is important for us to have diversified sources of funding in the business and we're going to try to balance that with having what we think is an appropriate overall cost of funds.
Where we sit today I think on the term financing we’re about half unsecured half through securitization and we’ll continue to evaluate that mix going forward.
Okay but it could be sort of broadly in that proportion going forward? Sort of half-and-half.
Broadly.
But I would say obviously we're going to at different times try to take advantage of different market conditions.
And if one market is more attractive then we're going to maybe move a little heavier in that direction.
And then I guess the last one I have is just changing gears a little bit.
Can we just a little bit talk about Brazil? How much of that is just the impact of the distribution changeover in that market and when is that expected to resolve itself because -- and how is the underlying sort of market itself absent those issues behaving in terms of demand? And then also maybe a little bit of color on how Europe was so strong.
I know I guess there's an easy comp there because of the non-availability of product last year but maybe we can talk about sort of how you would characterize the sort of end-market demand in Europe as well sort of x that item.
Patrick the Latin America region was down 5.4% and that was largely driven by Brazil.
We entered into an agreement to exit our exclusive dealer in Brazil again in December.
And basically what happened is in early February the dealer network they had 9 dealers that -- the exclusive distributor had 9 dealerships.
They all closed.
And we've been adding dealers back.
But the dealers that we added back did not begin selling product in the first quarter and we expect them to be up by the second quarter selling product.
How would you characterize just the underlying sort of health of the market? Is it something that you would expect to be materially up year-on-year once you get your distribution back in place and how long could that take I guess? Hey Patrick this is Keith.
And we think the underlying condition of the market is good.
And moving on to your question about Europe we're putting feet on the ground in Europe.
We're putting an organization in place that's really driving our improvements there.
We're putting dealers in place.
And so it's all part of the strategy that we've been talking about for the last couple of years.
And we really feel good about our team in Europe.
Last on Brazil.
Patrick we have to move on.
I'll follow-up with you on Brazil though.
Your next question comes from the line of Robin Farley with UBS.
I just wanted to get a little clarification on your U.S.
strategy.
You had mentioned still wanting to build up inventory ahead of sales this year and I guess that could mean one of two things: It could mean you're either expecting U.S.
retail sales to be down for the year or that you're expecting to ship more than 8% increase to the U.S.
And I'm just wondering if you clarify kind of which of those 2 things your strategy implies? And then I have a follow-up question as well.
Robin this is John.
I don't think it implies either of those.
We're simply going to ship -- we expect to ship in a little bit more than we sell.
So that means year-end inventories as we exit 2011 will be a little bit higher than they were in 2010.
And other than that it's not implying anything except for we believe that inventories are a little bit lower than they need to be on an ongoing basis for the health of the business.
And we look to put back a little bit more inventory by the end of the year.
I guess to sort of understand what assumption you're factoring in for U.S.
retail sales for the year may be helpful.
Robin we don't provide retail sales guidance so we've got our shipment guidance out there which is 215 000 to 228 000 or up 2% to 8%.
And with that we again expect to add a little bit -- sell in a little bit more than is retailed.
Okay.
And then you talked earlier about used pricing as an indicator to -- or your shipment strategy for new bikes.
Can you give us a sense of where used pricing is as a percent of new bike prices versus what your goal is or where you think that level should be? The goal is to get back to the 2007 2008 levels of used bike prices in relationship to MSRP.
We don't provide an ongoing look at what we're at.
There are so many models different families different motorcycles and all those pieces.
But we are very confident of and happy certainly to report is that those used by prices have been firming up for several straight quarters and are certainly ahead of year-ago levels.
We still have a way to go Robin to get to where our goal of being a 2007 2008 used price levels.
Last question is previously you've talked about looking at the ratio of used to new bikes as kind of a guide to you of how you would think about new bike production.
Is that still a way that you think about it or is that ratio not as important to you? Well I think the ratio is a fact that it went from 1:1 to 2.3:1 by the end of 2010 from 2007.
Other than that the real issue is the pricing dynamic between new and used and that's what we're focused on.
Your final question due to the time constraints comes from the line of Gregory Badishkanian with Citigroup.
My question is just with respect to the Japan crisis.
Has that been -- what's been the impact on some of your competitors? Do you have any visibility into that? Greg we read all the stuff that's written about the competition.
And certainly they've had plants down.
They've had plants up they've had plants down.
They are being affected.
It's hard to tell exactly what's happening in terms of their shipments though.
Our competition has got a fair amount of old product in the network.
Matter of fact during the first quarter our Japanese competition sold 75% to 90% of old bikes that they sold the first quarter were old model years.
So while we know their plants have been down for varying periods between the various competitors there still seems to be a fair amount of old inventory in the system.
This concludes your question-and-answer session.
Thank you for your time this morning.
We appreciate your investment in Harley-Davidson.
Thanks everyone.
The audio and visual support for today's call will be available at harley-davidson.com.
The audio can also be accessed until May 3 by calling (706) 645-9291 or (800) 642-1687 in the U.S.
The pin number is 53244958#.
If you have any questions please give us a call at (414) 343-8002.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Alicia and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference call.
[Operator Instructions] Ms.
Amy Giuffre Director of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you Alicia and welcome to Harley-Davidson's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is being webcast live on harley-davidson.com where you will also find slides containing supporting details.
These slides are generally available at least 30 minutes prior to the start of our call and can be accessed by clicking on Investor Relations then Events and Presentations on our website.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks that could cause actual results to be materially different.
Those risks include among others matters we have noted in our latest earnings release and filings with the SEC.
Harley-Davidson disclaims any obligation to update information in this call.
This morning you'll hear from Harley-Davidson's CEO Keith Wandell; CFO John Olin; and President of Harley-Davidson Financial Services Larry Hund.
Then we'll open the call for your questions.
To ensure we get to as many callers as possible I ask that you limit yourselves to one question and we'll do our best to get back to you in the queue I promise.
Thanks everyone.
So let's get started.
Keith? Thank you Amy and good morning.
We're in Anaheim California with our Harley-Davidson dealers from around the world for the Annual Summer Dealer Meeting and new model launch.
This is just one of the many ways that we stay close to what's happening at retail and it gives us the chance to hear what our dealers are thinking.
But this morning we're here to talk about Harley-Davidson's second quarter and 6 months results and we truly appreciate all of you joining us on today's call.
Over the past 27 months we have been focused on making changes that we believe will lead to long-term sustainable success for the business and for our dealers around the world.
So let me begin by thanking our employees our dealers and our suppliers for all the hard work and dedication that has gone into delivering the kind of results that we announced in our press release earlier today.
The company saw strong improvement in many areas including income in both the Motorcycle and Financial Services segments.
We are pleased by the 7.5% growth in new motorcycle retail sales in the U.S.
as well as the growth of Harley-Davidson retail sales on a worldwide basis.
With strong second quarter retail sales performance we have raised our shipment guidance for the year as we look to support our retail sales activity.
The change in shipment guidance also reflects our confidence in being able to maintain continuity of supply for several subcomponents in the aftermath of the March earthquake in Japan.
Our supply management team has done an outstanding job of mitigating supply chain risks resulting in no expected downtime or interruption in our production due to these issues.
And while we remain cautious about consumer confidence and the economy in general we are pleased with the company's second quarter results which reflect the transformation that is taking place at Harley-Davidson and the strength of the Harley-Davidson brand around the world.
In late 2009 we laid out our strategic plan which was based on 4 pillars: Growth continuous improvement leadership development and sustainability with the intention to transform our business and become best in class in areas that are critical to our long-term success.
Our transformation focuses on 3 main areas: Manufacturing product development and excellence at retail.
Over the next few weeks we will reach a milestone in our manufacturing transformation as we combine Touring and Softail motorcycle production at our York assembly operations with one modern efficient operation.
We expect the total transformation of our manufacturing operations will be completed by the end of next year.
I'd like to note that our employees our union leadership and management are fully engaged in delivering a sustainable world-class manufacturing capability.
And similarly in product development we're making tremendous progress in our implementation of lean engineering.
The transformation and product development is resulting in reduced time-to-market with new innovative products and more capacity to deliver new models.
And we will increasingly see the results of this work over the next few years.
The third cornerstone of our transformation is excellence at retail and that's something that we'll be talking a lot about over the next few days here in Anaheim with our dealers from around the world.
Harley-Davidson is embarking on a long-term global initiative called Retail 2020 that will provide the clarity and vision to take the Harley-Davidson retail experience to a new level with outstanding customer-led experience every day every time everywhere.
And through Retail 2020 we will position both the company and our network of independent dealers to profitably meet the constantly evolving needs of our customers.
This will include a completely revamped e-commerce capability that we expect to roll out in 2012.
So to wrap up let me reiterate how proud I am of our progress as one company and one team working in one direction.
Together with our dealers we are transforming our business and increasingly taking our iconic brand to the many roads of the world to fulfill the dreams of our customers.
I'll be back later for questions.
But now let me turn it over to John for a deeper dive into our results and our updated guidance.
Thanks Keith and good morning everyone.
I'll review the financial results starting on Slide 11 with the second quarter results.
During the quarter Harley-Davidson Inc.
consolidated revenue was up 15% behind a 13.2% increase in shipments of Harley-Davidson motorcycles.
Our second quarter income from continuing operations improved to $190.6 million an increase of 36.8%.
Similarly diluted earnings per share rose to $0.81 per share up from the year-ago quarter which was $0.59 per share.
Operating income for the Motorcycle business was up over 39% compared to last year's second quarter.
The strong increase in Motorcycle business was driven by increased motorcycle shipments and lower spending on ongoing restructuring activities partially offset by increased spending on our growth initiatives.
Our improved financial performance for the quarter was also driven by strong operating income at HDFS and lower year-over-year interest expense as a result of last December's repurchase of $297 million of high-interest notes partially offset by a higher effective tax rate as compared to last year.
We are very pleased with the second quarter results and our continued progress against our growth strategies and the transformation of our business.
Now let's take a look at retail sales on Slide 12.
Overall worldwide retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles were up 5.6% in the second quarter.
The big news for the second quarter was that retail sales in the U.S.
were up 7.5% compared to last year.
We are very pleased to report these positive results for the U.S.
market which represent the first quarterly growth in the past 17 quarters.
Market share in the U.S.
was 53.9% up 1.5 percentage points compared to last year's second quarter as the Harley-Davidson brand continues to show strength while the competition continues to aggressively discount prices to move aging inventory.
International markets grew 2.4% during the quarter driven by growth in the Asia-Pacific and Europe regions.
The Asia-Pacific region was up 6.7% driven primarily by strength in emerging markets in the region.
Retail sales in Japan were down 3.4% which represents a considerable improvement from the first quarter which was down 9.3% following the earthquake and tsunami.
Following very strong first quarter results retail sales in Europe region were up 2.6% in the quarter compared to 2010.
On a sequential basis this compares to year-over-year retail sales growth in Europe of 23% in the first quarter of this year.
Looking back to 2010 limited product availability in Europe constrained retail sales in the first quarter while improved product availability benefited second quarter retail sales in that market.
Consequently year-over-year comparisons were relatively easy in Q1 and tougher in Q2.
Overall we are pleased with Europe's first half growth which was up 9.3%.
Retail sales in both Canada and the Latin America region were down slightly versus last year.
Canada was down 2.1% and Latin America region was down 1.0% compared to last year.
In Brazil the new dealer network is coming up to speed.
As we discussed last quarter we closed all existing dealerships and have appointed 10 new dealers.
This was planned as part of the agreement that we announced in December 2010 to terminate the exclusive dealer contract that was in place and to expand our presence in Brazil.
Again we are very pleased with the worldwide dealer network's overall retail performance during the second quarter.
On Slide 13 you will see wholesale shipments of Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the quarter were up compared to last year and at the high end of our expected shipment range of 62 000 to 67 000 motorcycles for the quarter.
During the quarter mix shifted between Touring and custom motorcycles largely due to the York restructuring which shut down the Softail production line in preparation for the consolidated production of all models built in York onto one line.
Sportster represented 24% of total shipments which was in line with last year's Sportster mix.
We expect that Sportster as a percent of total shipments will be within the historical range of 18% to 22% for the full year.
Shipments of the 2012 Touring and Sportster motorcycles started at the end of June.
Generally we ship new model year motorcycles after they are introduced to dealers toward the end of July.
However as a result of the inventory situation in the U.S.
we began shipping Touring and Sportster models 3 weeks early.
Tomorrow we will introduce the 2012 Dyna Softail and VRSC motorcycles to our dealers here in Anaheim.
Slide 14 provides some additional detail on the U.S.
dealer network inventory and the strength of our brand as measured by total demand.
During the second quarter in the U.S.
we shipped about 42 600 Harley-Davidson motorcycles and our dealers sold roughly 53 600 at retail.
As a result of strong second quarter retail sales the U.S.
dealer network inventory was drawn down about 11 000 units from the first quarter of 2011 and was down about 3 500 units compared to last year's second quarter.
Consequently aggregate U.S.
dealer inventories continue to be below what we believe is an appropriate ongoing level and we will continue to work toward replenishing dealer inventory levels of new motorcycles.
We also continue to support the dealers' efforts to sell more used bikes.
Healthy used bike sales enhance dealer revenues maintain resale values and help narrow the gap between new and used motorcycle pricing.
Used bike sales by the U.S.
dealer networks continue to be up double digits through May compared to the same period last year.
When these used bikes are combined with new retail sales in the U.S.
total demand for Harley-Davidson motorcycles continues to be strong.
This reinforces the strength of the Harley-Davidson brand.
On Slide 15 you'll see revenue for the Motorcycles and Related Products segment was up in the second quarter behind strong growth from all our businesses.
During the quarter average motorcycle revenue for Harley-Davidson units sold increased $968 from the prior year as a result of favorable currency exchange and improved product mix.
The increase in average revenue coupled with a 13.2% increase in shipments drove Harley-Davidson motorcycle revenue growth to nearly 21% compared to last year.
Parts and Accessory sales were up over 10% for the quarter and year-to-date driven in part by a focus on product availability high demand for our new accessory product offerings and growth in worldwide retail motorcycle sales.
General Merchandise was up over 8% in the quarter compared to last year largely related to the timing of delivery of product between the first and second quarters of this year.
As we launch the remaining 2012 model year motorcycles tomorrow we expect revenue will be favorably impacted by approximately 0.5% price increase on a worldwide basis.
This is the first meaningful price increase that we have taken on motorcycles since 2007.
We feel the price increase reflects the consumer value that has been added to many of our Big Twin motorcycles and believe the timing is prudent given the strength of the brand and the tight inventory situation in the U.S.
Turning to restructuring on Slide 16.
Our efforts to improve our cost structure and transform the business to be stronger and more profitable in the future are well underway.
During the second quarter we incurred $13.6 million in restructuring expenses and $36.6 million year-to-date.
Restructuring activities are largely on plan through the first half of the year.
However we have adjusted 2011 2012 and expected total costs associated with all restructuring activities.
As you will see we are reducing the expected restructuring costs for 2011 from $95 million to $105 million to $80 million to $90 million and 2012 costs from $30 million to $35 million to $25 million to $30 million.
The total costs are now expected to be $490 million to $505 million.
Additionally we are increasing our 2011 capital spending estimates associated with restructuring activities from a range of $60 million to $75 million to $70 million to $85 million.
The expected savings included in the summary are unchanged.
On Slide 17 you will see gross margin in the quarter was 35% which was flat to last year.
Gross margin for the quarter was impacted by 5 key drivers.
First volume was favorably impacted by increased motorcycle shipments which were up 13.2% in the quarter and increased Parts and Accessories and General Merchandise sales compared to last year.
Second mix was favorable by $11 million positively impacted by a higher percentage of Touring shipments and favorable mix within families.
Third raw materials were unfavorable $9.1 million due to increased metals and fuel costs.
Next foreign currency exchange turned positive during the quarter benefiting gross margin by $4 million.
And finally manufacturing was favorably impacted by restructuring savings incremental margin on higher volumes partially offset by approximately $8 million in temporary inefficiencies associated with the transformation underway at our York facility.
On Slide 18 operating margin as a percent of revenue for the second quarter was 16.4% versus 13.9% in 2010.
Operating margin was favorably impacted by higher gross margin and lower year-over-year restructuring spending.
SG&amp;A was nearly $26 million higher during the quarter compared to the same period last year.
Due to a shift in timing of some SG&amp;A spending from 2010 spending patterns we believe that our spending across the first half is more indicative of the overall rate of spending for the full year.
As we look at SG&amp;A across the first half it was up $24 million or 5.9%.
There are 3 core drivers for the first half spending increase.
First unfavorable currency exchange accounted for nearly 1/3 of the increase or $7.2 million.
Next our product development spending was up nearly $7 million as we execute our focus strategy to deliver remarkable products utilizing a leaner customer-led approach.
And finally our spending on our international businesses was up nearly $13 million in the first half which is in line with our objectives to grow international sales at a faster rate than domestic sales and to add between 100 and 150 international dealerships by 2014.
Excluding these items largely related to our growth strategy SG&amp;A spending is up in the first half -- I'm sorry SG&amp;A spending in the first half was down slightly compared to prior year.
As we invest in our future in order to successfully grow and transform our business according to our strategic plan we continue to expect SG&amp;A spending to decline as a percent of revenue between 2009 and 2014.
Now moving on to our Financial Services segment on Slide 19.
In the second quarter HDFS operating profit improved $21.2 million or 34.9% compared to last year.
The 2 key drivers of the second quarter results were: Net interest income was $2.6 million higher in the second quarter of 2011 versus the second quarter of 2010 due to lower cost of funds and debt levels partially offset by reduced revenues on the declining receivables balance; and the provision for retail credit losses was $17.1 million lower in the second quarter of 2011 versus the second quarter of 2010 primarily due to improved credit losses as a result of favorable retail receivables performance.
During the quarter HDFS reduced the total allowance for credit losses on the entire portfolio by $15.3 million to $144.4 million to reflect lower anticipated credit losses and lower receivable balances.
It is important to note that on a year-to-date basis we have released approximately $28 million of allowance from the balance sheet given anticipated credit loss performance across the entire portfolio.
While the release of this allowance benefits income this year we cannot assume a similar financial benefit will reoccur in 2012.
Now Larry will provide more details on HDFS's operations on Slide 20.
Larry? Thanks John and good morning.
During the second quarter HDFS retail motorcycle loan originations increased 19% or $125 million compared to the same period last year.
The increase was driven by higher new motorcycle loan originations behind a strong increase in retail sales and a 2.3 percentage point increase in market share.
Used motorcycle loan originations also increased compared to last year.
However as receivables originated prior to the start of the economic downturn rolled off the books finance receivables outstanding decreased 6.8% compared to a year ago.
This declining receivable pool reflects the lower U.S.
retail sales over the last 2 years and that will continue to impact HDFS net interest income.
Over the past several quarters HDFS has been focused on prudently increasing overall credit application approval rates.
And we saw a modest increase in the second quarter including a slight increase in the percentage of non-prime originations.
We are leveraging our nearly 20 years of motorcycle lending experience and looking for opportunities to approve more good well-structured loans.
Our goal is to have a portfolio that continues to perform well over time that delivers an appropriate return on equity.
Moving to portfolio quality.
We are very pleased with the improved retail delinquency rate and retail credit losses compared to last year which you will see on Slide 21.
The 30-day delinquency rate for retail motorcycle loans at the end of the second quarter was 3.53% or 97 basis points better than the same date last year.
Annualized retail credit losses improved by 98 basis points to 1.06% in the first 6 months compared to the first half of last year.
This improvement was driven by the impact of changes in underwriting implemented 2 years ago as well as a lower frequency of loss and improvement in the recovery values of repossessed motorcycles.
As John mentioned during the quarter we reduced the total allowance for credit losses by $15.3 million to reflect lower anticipated credit losses and lower receivable balances.
We will continue to evaluate the allowance each quarter using our disciplined process and make adjustments as appropriate.
We are pleased with the continued improvement in credit performance and we will continue to monitor the unemployment picture motorcycle recovery values and the pace of the recovery in the U.S.
economic environment and manage HDFS appropriately.
During the second quarter HDFS delivered increased profits and maintained a strong liquidity position.
We remain focused on enabling retail sales of Harley-Davidson motorcycles while providing an appropriate return to Harley-Davidson Inc.
Now let me turn it back to John.
Thanks Larry.
Now let's take a look at cash and liquidity on Slide 22.
You'll see that at the end of the quarter we had just over $1.2 billion of cash and marketable securities.
In addition HDFS had approximately $1 billion of available liquidity through bank credit and conduit facilities.
In April the expiring 364-day credit facility was replaced with a new 4-year $675 million facility.
We continue to maintain a minimum of 12 months of projected liquidity needs in cash and/or committed credit facilities.
I am also pleased to report that we increased the second quarter dividend 25% as compared to the first quarter of 2011.
Now I'll review the remaining Harley-Davidson Inc.
financials on Slide 23.
I would like to highlight 2 items on this Slide.
First with regards to continuing operations the company generated operating cash of $473 million during the first half of 2011 which included a $200 million contribution to our pension plan.
And second our effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 34.8% compared to 36.4% in the first half of 2010.
The 2010 effective tax rate through the second quarter was negatively impacted by the healthcare reform legislation offset by a favorable settlement of an IRS audit.
We continue to expect full year effective income tax rate will be approximately 35% for 2011.
Now turning to guidance on Slide 24.
We are increasing our expected worldwide motorcycle shipments for the full year 2011.
This adjusted rate reflects our comprehensive view of the business including strong year-to-date retail sales performance and our increased confidence in our ability to minimize the impact from the anticipated subcomponent supply issue related to the aftermath of the earthquake in Japan that we talked about last quarter.
Our guidance also takes into consideration the temporary capacity limitations at York given the major transformation underway at that facility as well as concern about the economic recovery particularly in the U.S.
and the fragile nature of the worldwide consumer.
As a result we now expect full year 2011 Harley-Davidson motorcycle shipments to be between 228 000 and 235 000 units up 8% to 12% from 2010.
During the third quarter we expect to ship between 60 000 and 65 000 units.
We are also adjusting gross margin guidance.
We now expect full year 2011 gross margin will be between 34% to 35%.
This guidance reflects our greater confidence in our ability to minimize the impact from the Japan supply issue as well as the negative cost impact associated with executing the necessary contingency plans.
The new guidance range also takes into account our increased shipment guidance and our 2012 model year price increase as well as the negative impact of the temporary inefficiencies associated with the transformation at York and higher raw material costs for the full year.
We continue to expect capital expenditures to be between $210 million and $230 million which includes between $70 million and $85 million of capital related to restructuring.
As we look back on the second quarter of 2011 we are certainly happy to report our first year-over-year positive retail sales in the United States since before the economic downturn took hold.
We're also excited to be able to increase our 2011 shipment guidance.
We are also encouraged by the strength of the brand which is demonstrated by solid total demand for new and used Harley-Davidson motorcycles.
This strength as well as firming used bike pricing and stability of new bike prices supported our ability to increase worldwide pricing for the 2012 model year.
Despite our strong Q2 results and improved outlook for the remainder of the year we recognize the many challenges that lie ahead of us and our customers.
And therefore we will continue to manage the business prudently as we navigate through any uncertainties that the third and fourth quarter of the year might bring.
Overall the fundamentals of our business are strong and we are excited about the long term.
We remain focused on executing against our strategies to transform and to grow our business while delivering strong margins strong returns and value to our shareholders.
Thank you for your continued confidence and investment in Harley-Davidson.
And now let's open up the call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Ed Aaron with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> I'm actually interested in your comments Keith about the Retail 2020 message that you're delivering to your dealers this week.
And the reason I say that is that I think that there's a perception out there that most of the story around Harley is about operational changes.
And you guys really haven't talked a whole lot about expectations for innovation to come in and really drive growth.
So you've been spending a lot more on product development and shortening your lead times.
And I'm just kind of wondering how long it will really take for that to show up in terms of your product innovation.
Right.
Well one of the things I mentioned I talked about the strategic plan and the intent all along has been to in a very thoughtful and meaningful way transform our business.
But we really started with the internals okay? So manufacturing product development getting our house in order.
And then the third major component is what we call Retail 2020 and Matt Levatich and his team are really leading that initiative.
And it's really all about helping our dealers to deliver a great customer-led experience every day.
And so we're working hard on what are the programs the support-type programs that we need to roll out to our dealers to help them do that? What are the metrics and the accountabilities that we need to put in place to make sure that we're driving all of our dealers' behaviors to where we want them to be which is really a simple 2-by-2 matrix.
It's profitable dealers great customer experience.
And so we're investing in that.
We're investing in our international expansion which is a major part of our strategic plan.
And we're also investing more in product development while at the same time leaning the process.
So if you think about 2 years ago when we were investing in 3 different brands and the results of the business were at that time deteriorating we were spending less money on product development and we were diluting the investment because we were investing in like I mentioned 3 different brands.
So now we're able to spend more money on product development focus it in Harley-Davidson brand to bring some really new wow exciting products to our dealer show floors.
But our product development process is at best today a 5-year process.
And we're leaning that to where it'd be more like a 3- to 3.5-year process.
So in the very near future we'll be seeing some of these new products hit our dealers show floor that are intended to do just what our strategic plan mentions to anchor our existing customer base but to really bring new customers into our dealers' show floors and new customers into the Harley-Davidson brand.
Our next question comes from the line of Craig Kennison with Robert W.
Baird.
I want to reference Slide 21 which looks like a great slide.
How much of that improved credit loss experience was driven by higher recovery values? And then where do you think used bike values are relative to maybe optimal level you'd like to see it at? This is Larry.
I would say the majority is really due to better underwriting that we've done in the portfolio over the last couple of years.
If you think about it about 2/3 of our book today is loans we've originated since the beginning of 2009 and that portfolio has performed very very well.
And I'll say a second thing is that a lot of the motorcycles we repossessed are from 2007 2008.
So that's sort of an older motorcycle.
It's got more equity in it at that at this point.
That's helped drive recovery values.
And then recovery values at auction have improved but I would say somewhat modestly.
But we have seen continued improvement certainly over the last year.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Conder with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC</strong> Regarding the new models in the price mix John you commented in your preamble that you're looking at about a 50 basis points on average global price increase.
How do you feel with the new engines that are in the models that are already introduced? And collectively how do you feel that that mix will go relative to what you saw with the power pack the substantial acceptance of the power pack add-on option for model year '11? I guess the root of the question is for the balance of this year and then maybe looking into next year could mix potentially be better? The comp of the new engines and so forth versus that power pack of last year as it relates to margin mix.
Okay let me address 2 things.
One is pricing.
As you had mentioned we have increased pricing 1/2 of 1% for the year on a worldwide basis.
As we look to that most of that is coming in the United States.
U.S.
is up about 1% and Canada's up about 1% 3/4 of 1% in Europe and largely flat in Latin America and lower in Asia-Pacific by about 2.5%.
And that's largely due to the very strong yen and Australian dollar.
So we feel very great and very good about our ability to price our motorcycles at this point.
And so with that Tim let's move on to your second question which is with regards to mix.
Last year you're absolutely right we had offered a 103 engine ABS and a security system bundled in what we called power pack.
And we offered that as standard equipment on 3 models last year.
It was the Ultra Limited the Road Guide Ultra and the Road King Class X.
In addition we offered the power pack as an option on 5 models and we saw a strong take rate on this option which drove mix favorability over the last year.
So with model year 2012 product lineup the 103 engine is going to be offered standard on our Touring motorcycles.
And we'll also be offering what we call the security pack which is now bundling ABS and the security system together.
So when we talk about mix we expect the second -- we expect mix to be largely flat given the introduction of the 103 engine as standard.
Our next question comes from the line of Sharon Zackfia with William Blair.
I was hoping you could update us on the progress of the factory custom that you started this year kind of how that's taken off among consumers and whether we might see that expanded in the near future to other types of bikes? Well this is Keith.
I'll start and then maybe John might want to jump in.
But our whole strategy around manufacturing is to be more flexible and to be able to produce products closer to customer demand.
There's a lot of reasons in our current structure why we can't do that effectively.
And so our vision for the future is that we want to be customer-led in everything we do.
So we want our customer to be able to order a bike and get the bike they want the model they want the color they want and to some degree accessorized the way they want it in a reasonable length of time.
And that's really what H-D1 is all about.
We look at every one of our customers as a unique individual and we look at them as wanting a very unique bike an individualized bike.
And so H-D1 is all about giving our customers the ability to order a bike from the factory get it in a very reasonable length of time and get it the way it's ordered.
We do intend to expand that product offering as we go forward as we get the systems in place the manufacturing transformations completed and those kinds of things.
So and we think it's been well received.
Our dealers for the most part I think like the concept.
It was an interesting phenomenon because on average when our customers ordered a bike through H-D1 they ended up doing more accessorization when they took delivery of the bike on average than before.
So it's been a good concept.
Our next question comes from the line of James Hardiman with Longbow Research.
Obviously the fact that you're raising guidance sort of beyond the retail strength is indicative of some level of confidence that your production and most specifically your production in York is able to keep up with and potentially exceed demand.
I guess can you speak towards that level of confidence? I guess a do you still expect to ship more into the channel this year than what gets sold out of the channel? And b what level of retail do you think you could ultimately support from a production standpoint? Are your shipments in the back half of the year basically going to be purely a function of demand? Or is there some ceiling on where those shipments could get if -- in the positive possibility that retail actually accelerates in the back half? This is John.
First of all James we're very pleased with our second quarter performance.
Business seems to be responding very well to our key growth strategies and that's including aggressively managing supply in line with demand and expanding the relevance of the brand and strengthening and expanding the distribution network.
We feel great about the total demand that we're seeing through May.
Total demand was up 8.2% and that's in relationship to 2010 which was up 3.2%.
So we're seeing total demand accelerate in the first half of this year.
As we said we're certainly concerned about some items in the back half largely the economy and the fragile nature of the worldwide consumer.
But we're very pleased with where we see retail sales.
So as we took up guidance we took several things into consideration.
One is our year-to-date performance and again a lot based on the fact that the brand is strong our market share is good.
And then secondly we looked at the capacity side which is the other part of your question.
And there are capacity constraints as we are still moving a tremendous amount of pieces of our York facility.
But at this time we're confident that we can deliver shipments of 228 000 to 235 000 units.
And again we feel very good about where we're at.
Our next question comes from the line of Rod Lash with Deutsche Bank.
It's Pat Nolan on for Rod.
Just -- One just housekeeping and then one question.
The housekeeping question could you just tell us what the provisioning was in the quarter versus the charge-offs for HDFS? And as far as -- the question would be can you maybe just expand on how you see the manufacturing efficiencies continuing over the next few quarters? And just when you think we'll see actual gross margins improve on a year-over-year basis just to show some leverage to the volume growth in HP improvement you've been seeing? So this is Larry.
I'll take the first part on the allowance rec [ph].
At the end of the first quarter we had an allowance of $159.7 million.
The provision this quarter was actually a credit of $6.8 million with the reduction in the reserve rate.
And then the net charge-offs were about $8.5 million leaving us with an allowance at the end of the second quarter of $144.4 million.
And Pat I'll take the second part of the question which was the manufacturing efficiencies.
First of all in the second quarter from a manufacturing perspective we were favorable by $7.2 million.
And that follows a first quarter that was unfavorable by $21 million.
So we're very pleased with the activities that are going on in manufacturing.
So in the first quarter as we talked about we felt we hit a high-water mark of temporary inefficiencies driven by the transformation at York of $11 million.
That came down in the second quarter and posted about $8 million of temporary inefficiencies at York but we're starting to see the restructuring savings come through.
And therefore it's turned positive.
So as we look forward we're going to have the experience of temporary inefficiencies throughout the remainder of our work at York which'll take us through the first half of next year.
However the back half we will be lapping some inefficiencies of about $4 million in the third quarter and $5 million in the fourth quarter.
So we expect that to still be negative but a little bit more favorable.
Overall when you talk about the gross margin percent again we're pleased that everything is now positive in the second quarter with the exception of raw materials.
And the raw materials has quite a drag on the overall margin percent.
The other thing that's pulling the percent down a little bit is the fact that currency while we've turned positive on currency for the quarter and we're now $4 million favorable there was a big impact on revenue for the quarter.
So revenue actually during the quarter was positively impacted by $45 million.
So that also affects our percent margin on a year-over-year basis and kind of drags it down a little bit because currency is only being added at about an 8% margin versus the Motorcycle business that's in the 35% range.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Badishkanian from Citigroup.
And I'm just wondering in terms of -- you had nice acceleration in retail sales is there any plans to kind of change your targets of slightly increasing dealer levels maybe a little bit more to accommodate if the growth continues? Greg are you referring to inventory levels? Yes inventory levels at the dealer level.
Yes.
Well as we've said all along right now we believe that the inventories are a little bit lower than we would like on a go-forward basis on the size of business that we have.
Again given some of the constraints and how well retail sales are is inventories were down again in the second quarter on a year-over-year basis about 3 500 units.
As we move forward through the remainder of the year we would hope to build up inventories a little bit to be a little bit ahead of where we were at the end of last year.
So and at that time we felt again on an ongoing business that we were a little bit lower than we needed to be.
Actually inventories at this point in the second quarter go back to about 2002 levels.
And..
Let me jump in.
This is Keith.
This is -- it's consistent with one of the things that we've been saying now for quite some time and that is we're really focused on managing our supply in line with demand.
And so this is something that we look at on a daily basis.
But more importantly as we get through our manufacturing transformation this is one of the important things to note is that we'll then have the flexibility to be able to flex up and down much more quickly as these demand patterns and/or seasonal patterns occur.
Our next question comes from the line of Patrick Archambault with Goldman Sachs.
My question this may be more for Larry.
I was wondering about HDFS.
Can you give us a sense of how much you can -- now that you're actually seeing sales grow presumably managed receivables will also grow.
And how much of that can you fund with the equity that's currently on the HDFS balance sheet? And how much will need additional cash to service that growth? I think if I remember well your leverage covenant was something like 10x.
Can you just kind of give us a sense of that? Well we're actually I think pretty well capitalized at HDFS.
We've got over $900 million in equity.
Our leverage today 5x to 6x.
So we've got a lot of room from that standpoint.
I would say that's not a concern at the moment.
Okay and you can -- just for clarification you can go all the way up to 10x? That is the way the covenant is set.
That's correct.
Our next question comes from the line of Robin Farley with UBS.
I know you talked about repo values for HDFS.
But talking just outside of HDFS just sales of the used bikes at the retail level can you talk about what kind of pricing gap do you see between used and new bike sales at the retail level and kind of what's ideal in your hue? Yes this is John.
We don't have an exact number because there are so many models.
Used bikes have so much parts and accessories on it.
So there's no standard look at it.
It's something that we monitor.
We look across several sources including wholesale retail survey data repo data to understand what's happening with used bike prices.
And the good news is is that over the last several quarters used bikes continue to firm and that gap is closing.
And as that gap is closing we're starting to see retail sales start to improve.
And certainly we noted that in the first quarter with the U.S.
retail being up 7.5%.
So through again May total demand was up 8.2% and that was really driven by again used bikes sales which were up over 11% during that period of time.
Is there a kind of a ballpark range you could give us just to have a sense of as that gap is narrowing between used and new bike prices how much has narrowed versus where you'd kind of like it to be or where you're trying to manage it to be? Are you halfway there or 10% of the way there or 90% of the way there? There is no -- it's not that precise of a science.
We're making great improvement in that improvement study and on a -- I mean a quarter-in-and-quarter-out basis and we're looking to get back to where we were pre-downturn.
And again everything's moving in the right direction.
Our next question comes from the line of Gerrick Johnson with BMO Capital Markets.
I just had a couple questions on competition.
Constraints in Japanese production due to the earthquake tsunami are they showing up in the dealer supply yet? And how do you anticipate that affecting your business? We don't have great visibility to what's happening in the supply disruption to our competition.
Certainly we've seen what a lot of others have seen is it seems that Honda and Yamaha are probably hit the hardest.
And we are getting reports back that there some new models that they have that are backed up.
Now having said that as we look at those competitors they're selling nearly 70% in the second quarter.
We're still old-model-year motorcycles.
So I think they are having some troubles.
But again there's still seemingly a lot of old-model-year bikes out there that are being sold.
Our next question comes from the line of Ed Aaron with RBC capital markets.
LLC</strong> John a couple margin-related questions.
So on SG&amp;A I think you mentioned that second half would be similar to first half.
Was that in absolute dollar terms or in terms of year-over-year change? And then also on the gross margin side I think you made a comment in your prepared remarks about some impact from the contingency plans affecting the full year gross margin.
Could you maybe quantify that for us? SG&amp;A is we're looking at a rate of spend.
Through the first half it was about 5.9%.
We expect a similar rate of spend through the back half of the year.
And now Ed with regards to that we've talked about in the fourth quarter of 2010 we had a onetime item that affected SG&amp;A by about $15 million.
And that is us exiting the exclusive dealer arrangement that we had in Brazil.
So the underlying SG&amp;A rate is more similar to the first half.
But then we will benefit from that year-over-year impact of the fourth quarter of last year's spend.
With regards to gross margin is yes we couldn't be more thrilled with the materials organization and the fact that we are continuing to make touring motorcycles with radios.
However there is a cost with regards to that.
As we had mentioned last quarter we changed our shipping locations and you can see some of that in the shipment data between the U.S.
and Japan.
There's some impact on mix.
And then there's just a overall cost of retooling other suppliers and so on and so forth.
We do not have a number for that and those costs and expenses continue.
I would say that they're an irritant at this point.
They're nothing hugely material but they are what we've also factored in when we look at our gross margin guidance going forward of 34% to 35%.
LLC</strong> But John to the extent the gross margin guidance didn't come up at least at the high end along with your production is that the main explanation for why that would be? I think it's certainly a contributor but from a raw material standpoint it is much greater than the Japan supply issue would be.
But yes that is a part of it.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Conder with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC</strong> Actually just 2 clarifications there.
So you're saying John that the drop in the international mix that we saw on the quarter year-over-year was that largely due to the decline in the shipments to Japan? And then again just a clarification the restructuring amount that you have included in COGS or the restructuring expenses portion in COGS this quarter? Tim can you repeat the first question? LLC</strong> Yes.
I guess the shift of the international sales down as far as the international and domestic mix in the quarter was the majority of that what you were explaining in the prior question the reduction in shipments to Japan? Or is it something else going on internationally? No.
Right when the prices hit we had more of a demand for touring bikes in the U.S.
and we had better inventories in our international markets.
So we at that point stopped shipping touring bikes to our international markets to make sure that we had enough demand here.
So that was a big driver of that.
And the second question that you had is restructuring expense in cost of goods sold.
Right now all of restructuring expense comes through in SG&amp;A and it does not affect the cost of goods sold line item.
Our next question comes from the line of James Hardiman with Longbow Research.
I guess first just to close off the international conversation can you speak to the retail in Japan? It actually doesn't look that bad given what's going on over there.
And then in Brazil can you break out the -- is there a way you can break out the Brazil number for the quarter? And I guess it sounds like you're still feeling a drag from the changeover but I guess coming out of the second quarter do you feel like you're 100% up to speed in Brazil and ready to go full bore here from here on out? Yes.
Again as we had mentioned Japan given the downturn of our sales that started on March 11 we ended up in the first quarter down 9.3%.
And we couldn't be more pleased with where they're at being down I think it was only about 3.6% in the second quarter.
And the resilience of that market and those customers is incredibly impressive.
So our team in Japan has done a wonderful job working through the issues.
As we had talked about at that time we had very few of our dealerships that got directly caught up in it but I think there was a couple.
And we couldn't be more pleased with the retail sales from that despite them being down.
With regards to Brazil as we had talked about about halfway through the first quarter we changed out the 9 existing dealers that we had.
We terminated them all and started to appoint new dealers.
At this point as we end the second quarter we've got 10 dealers appointed.
6 of them are off selling products.
And of those 6 about half of them are selling products from temporary locations.
So we've got a lot more improvement to come from Brazil.
But James we do not break out Brazil from the Latin American numbers but that is -- the vast majority of the sales are in Brazil.
And despite that we saw sales only down 1% in the second quarter.
Again we couldn't be more pleased with that transition in the team that's working out our business in Brazil.
Okay.
And then just momentum within the quarter I mean obviously you guys don't break out the quarter in any way.
But just qualitatively I mean the concern throughout the whole consumer discretionary space is that from a macro perspective things slowed down here in the second quarter.
Is what you're seeing does it corroborate that? Does it counter that? I mean ultimately can you give us any qualitative indication of what the momentum looked like within the quarter and if you want to talk about July that would be great as well.
We can't talk about July and we do not break out the months within any given quarter.
We can say that we've seen in the last several quarters is the momentum in the business continues to improve.
And I think from the peak of the worst quarter that we had was in second quarter of 2009.
For the 8 ensuing quarters we've seen improvements on all but one of them.
And that was pretty much a flat quarter-over-quarter basis.
So the strength of the business continues.
As we've talked about the total demand for our products continues to grow and we continued to narrow the used and new bike prices.
So we feel very good about the overall momentum of our business and this obviously resulting in us taking up the shipment guidance the 228 000 to 235 000 units.
Our final question comes from the line of Patrick Archambault with Goldman Sachs.
On the back of the envelope based on your new guidance if you're planning on building inventories it still would seem like -- I mean depending on what level you build that you're looking for a reasonable back half loaded performance year-on-year from a retail point of view.
And I was just wondering can you just tell us a little bit more about the role of increasing inventories in that? I mean it is impressive that you guys managed to see such an improvement in Q2 with still pretty big inventory constraints.
How much is additional vehicle or additional motorcycle stocks going to help you on that front? Patrick this is John.
If the question is is are we losing sales at retail? We do not believe we're losing any significant -- we're not losing sales at retail to our competitors.
Low inventories out in the field may be having an effect on retail sales.
There's a couple of things that could be happening.
We could see consumers that can't find what they want new that are looking at the value offered by used bikes and moving to used which certainly supports our strategy to narrow the gap between new and used.
And we are seeing at times that customers are waiting a little bit to get the exact color or some of the features and benefits on that bike with the exact model that they want.
But I think the important part is is that we see no evidence it's certainly reflected in our market share and the gains in the second quarter that we're losing any sales to the competition.
There are no further questions at this time.
I turn the call back over to the presenters.
Thank you for your time this morning.
We appreciate your investment in Harley-Davidson.
Thanks John.
The audio and visual support for today's call will be available at harley-davidson.com.
The audio can also be accessed until August 2 by calling (706) 645-9291 or (800) 642-1687 in the U.S.
The pin number is 75039604#.
If you have any questions please give us a call at (414) 343-8002.
Thank you.
And this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Melissa and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Ms.
Amy Giuffre Director of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you Melissa and welcome to Harley-Davidson's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
The audio for today's call is being webcast live on harley-davidson.com.
The slides which are generally available at least 30 minutes prior to the call can be accessed by clicking on company Investor Relations investment presentations then Q3 2011 conference call.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks that could cause actual results to be materially different.
Those risks include among others matters we have noted in our latest earnings release and filings with the SEC.
Harley-Davidson disclaims any obligation to update information in this call.
This morning you'll hear from Harley-Davidson CEO Keith Wandell; CFO John Olin; and President of Harley-Davidson Financial Services Larry Hund.
Then we'll open the call for questions.
To ensure that we get as many callers as possible we'll ask the callers ask only one question and return to the queue for follow-up questions.
This has worked great for the last few quarters and we appreciate all your help.
I'd also like to note that our IR website has been recently revamped to improve the ease of use and overall appearance.
And finally today we welcome Rachel Persky to the Harley-Davidson IR Team and extend our gratitude to Travis Thacher for his years of IR service as he moves into a new position here at Harley so thanks Travis.
With that let's get started.
Keith? Thanks Amy.
Good morning and thanks to all of you for joining us on the Third Quarter Earnings Call.
Harley-Davidson again turned in a strong performance in the third quarter with earnings nearly doubled those of the year ago period and worldwide dealer new motorcycle sales up more than 5% from last year's third quarter.
The third quarter results reflect our continued progress at implementing our business strategy.
Through this strategy we are number one transforming our production operations into a lean flexible and best-in-class system; secondly bringing lean engineering to our product development significantly reducing the time it takes to bring new motorcycles to market.
We are focusing on retail excellence to deliver a personalized compelling and premium experience for every customer every time everywhere.
We're also attracting new groups of customers as we build on our leadership among young adults and other outreach segments and we're expanding the global reach of Harley-Davidson brand as we become truly multicultural and multi-generational.
In short there's a tremendous amount of transformational work going on throughout the organization.
Each and every one of these strategic initiatives is a major undertaking all on its own.
So I can tell you I'm very proud of the dedication of all of our employees including our union leadership and the focus of everyone in the organization to bring these changes to life.
You know just last week I spent a day at our final assembly plant in York Pennsylvania.
And the scope of change there is tremendous and there's been a great deal of progress.
From 4 separate assembly lines and operations in more than 20 buildings we now have a much smaller campus and build all Softail Touring CVO and Trike vehicles on one assembly line in all of the different configurations required for U.S.
and international markets.
It's an incredibly complex work and many challenges still lie ahead as we bring the new operating system online.
But in spite of the short-term inefficiencies the attitudes engagement and pride of everyone in bringing these changes to life is truly energizing.
Similarly in our Kansas City plant is now well down the path of implementing the changes there to become best in class.
And we're looking ahead to the full implementation of the contracts in the first part of the year in Wisconsin that we expect will enable us to realize the transformational opportunity across our entire company.
I also want to acknowledge our dealers for their continued efforts to deliver results at retail which we are seeing in the sales increases of retail even as challenging economic headwinds continue.
On last quarter's call we talked about Retail 2020 a long-term global initiative to take the Harley-Davidson retail experience as good as it is to the next level.
Retail 2020 will provide the overall arching multichannel approach systems and processes to grow the Harley-Davidson brand at retail and define the Harley-Davidson standard of retail excellence.
Just like the work going on in production and product development Retail 2020 is about being best in class and positioning Harley-Davidson dealers and the company alike to profitably meet the constantly evolving needs of our customers.
Before I wrap it up and turn it over to John for the details of the quarter let me touch on the current economic climate.
We remain cautious about consumer confidence and the economy in general just as we have been throughout 2011 and we will continue to manage the business prudently.
But through our strategy and actions we've taken we believe we are restoring Harley-Davidson to a strong foundation and positioning the company to grow and extend the reach of the brand around the world.
These are exciting times at Harley-Davidson as we transform our business to be best in class in everything we do that make customers' dreams a reality by delivering remarkable products and extraordinary customer experiences.
I'll be back later for questions but let me turn it over to John.
Thanks Keith.
And good morning everyone.
I'll review the third quarter financial results starting on Slide 10.
During the quarter Harley-Davidson Inc.
consolidated revenue was up 10.9% behind the 15.9% increase in shipments of Harley-Davidson motorcycles.
Our third quarter income from continuing operations improved to $183.6 million an increase of 95.9%.
Similarly diluted earnings per share rose to $0.78 per share up from the year ago quarter which was $0.40 per share.
Operating income from the Motorcycle business was up 78% compared to last year's third quarter.
The strong increase in the Motorcycle business was driven by increased motorcycle shipments and lower spending on ongoing restructuring activities partially offset by a lower gross margin as compared to last year.
Operating income at Harley-Davidson Financial Services was up 21.9% behind improved credit loss performance.
Finally our improved financial performance for the quarter was also driven by a lower year-over-year interest expense as a result of last December's repurchase of $297 million of high-interest notes and a lower effective tax rate as compared to last year.
We are very pleased with the third quarter's results and continued progress against our goal strategies and the transformation of our business.
Now let's take a look at retail sales on Slide 11.
Overall worldwide retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles were up 5.1% in third quarter.
In the U.S.
retail sales continue to be strong despite a very challenging economic environment.
During the quarter we introduced our 2012 model year motorcycles and they have been well received by both our dealers and customers.
Market share in the U.S.
was 57.9% up 1.3 percentage points compared to last year's third quarter as the Harley-Davidson brand continued to show its strength while many of our competitors continue to discount prices to move aging inventory.
Retail sales in the international markets grew 4.4% during the quarter driven by growth in Latin America Europe and Asia Pacific regions.
The Latin America region was up 27.9% driven primarily by strength in Mexico and Brazil.
In Brazil the new dealer network continues to come up to speed.
As we have discussed we closed all 9 dealerships and have appointed 10 new dealers of which 8 are up and running.
This was planned as part of the agreement that we announced in December 2010 to terminate the exclusive dealer contract that was in place and expand our presence in Brazil.
Retail sales in the Europe region were up 4.4% in the quarter compared to 2010.
The Europe region saw strong sales in Northern European countries and in our emerging markets in the region partially offset by softness in Southern European countries.
Retail sales in Asia Pacific region were up 1.8% driven by double-digit gains in Australia and emerging markets which include India and China.
We continue to experience declines in Japan as that country works to recover from the tragic events earlier this year.
On Slide 12 you will see wholesale shipments of Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the quarter were up compared to last year and within our expected range of 60 000 to 65 000 motorcycles for the quarter.
During the quarter mix shifted from Touring and custom motorcycles to Sportsters largely due to the York restructuring which impacted production at that facility.
During the quarter York consolidated Touring Softail Trike and CVO production and with single consolidated line.
We expect York motorcycle production to be continue to be affected over the next couple of quarters as the new consolidated line comes up to speed.
Sportsters represented 22.3% of total shipments which was higher than last year's Sportster mix.
We expect Sportsters as a percentage of total shipments will be at the upper end of our historical range of 18% to 22% for the full year.
As we noted last quarter we began shipping 2012 model year Touring and Sportster motorcycles in the U.S.
at the end of June which was a few weeks earlier than normal.
We released these models early as a result of tight retail inventory situation in the U.S..
Shipments of the remaining 2012 models started in late July as they normally do.
Slide 13 provides some additional detail on the U.S.
dealer network inventory and strength of our brand as measured by total demand.
During the third quarter in the U.S.
we shipped about 41 100 Harley-Davidson motorcycles and dealers sold roughly 42 600 at retail.
As a result of strong third quarter retail sales and temperate production constraints experienced at York U.S.
dealer network inventory was drawn down about 1 600 units from the second quarter of 2011 and was down about 1 900 units compared to last year's third quarter.
In addition to overall site inventory dealers ended the quarter with very low levels of 2011 model year carryover units.
We are pleased to report that U.S.
dealer network profit margins have increased behind higher retail sales and prudent management of the cost structures.
In light of ongoing uncertain economic challenges we remain committed to aggressively managing new motorcycle supply in line with demand.
However we do recognize that aggregate U.S.
dealer inventory continues to be below what we believe is an appropriate ongoing level and we will continue to work toward replenishing dealer inventory levels of new motorcycles.
We continue to support the dealer's efforts to sell more used bikes.
We believe healthy used bikes sales enhance dealer revenue maintain resale values and help near the gap between new and used motorcycle pricing.
Used bike sales by the U.S.
dealer network continue to be up double digits through August compared to the same period last year.
When used motorcycle sales are combined with new retail sales in the U.S.
total demand for Harley-Davidson motorcycles continues to be strong.
On Slide 14 you will see revenue for the Motorcycles and Related Products segment was up 13.4% in the third quarter behind strong growth from all our businesses.
Harley-Davidson motorcycle revenue was up 15.5% behind the 15.9% increase of shipments.
During the quarter average motorcycle revenue for Harley-Davidson units shipped decreased $52 from the prior year as a result of unfavorable product mix partially offset by significant currency exchange favorability in the previously announced price increase on our 2012 model year motorcycles.
Parts and Accessories sales were up 7.6% for the quarter driven in part by a focus on product availability high demand for new accessory product offerings and growth and worldwide and used retail motorcycle sales.
General Merchandise was up over 8% in the third quarter as a result of sportswear growth and the impact of worldwide new motorcycle sales increases on leather and riding gear.
Turning to restructuring on Slide 15.
We are continuing our efforts to improve our cost structure and transform the business to be stronger and more profitable in the future.
York continues to be a key focus of our restructuring activities.
As we mentioned during the third quarter we combined assembly of all models produced at York and with a single assembly line.
As anticipated these changes resulted in temporary inefficiencies and temporary capacity constraints.
We are pleased to report that all manufacturing at York is now in a single building.
The team at York has done an outstanding job of reducing our operating cost structure and increasing our manufacturing flexibility.
The focus at York for the next couple of quarters will be to consistently increase our throughput until we reach our targeted lease.
Consequently during the fourth quarter we anticipate that there will be continued downtime as workers on a new production lines are trained and production comes up to speed.
The next step in the structuring which will occur in 2012 will be to implement a new ERP system at York which we expect will give us many new capabilities across the supply chain including the ability to do more made-to-order production implement production surge capabilities in 2013 and provide end-to-end supply chain integration.
As we work toward completing our restructuring we will continue to experience temporary inefficiencies and temporary capacity constraints.
We continue to expect the manufacturing restructuring to be largely complete by the end of 2012.
During the third quarter we incurred $12.4 million in restructuring expenses and $49 million year-to-date.
Restructuring activities are largely on plan through the first 9 months of the year and costs are coming in lower than we originally expected.
As you will see we reduced the expected 2011 restructuring cost by $10 million to a range of $70 million to $80 million.
Consequently we now expect total costs to be between $480 million and $495 million by 2013.
The expected savings in capital spending estimates associated with restructuring activities are unchanged.
On Slide 16 you will see gross margin in the quarter was 33.7% which was lower than last year.
Gross margin for the quarter was impacted by 6 key drivers.
First volume was favorably impacted by increased motorcycle shipments which were up 15.9% in the quarter and increased Parts and Accessories and General Merchandise sales compared to last year.
Second you'll see we've added a motorcycle pricing line to the Slide to reflect our previously announced price increase on 2012 motorcycles.
During the quarter gross margin was improved by $7.7 million as a result of the price increase.
Third mix was unfavorable by $26.6 million largely driven by the temporary disruptions at York which caused temporary capacity constraints and impacted the mix between families models and the geographic shipments of motorcycles during the third quarter.
Fourth foreign currency exchange during the quarter has positively impacted gross margin by $2.7 million.
While currency exchange during the quarter had a modest favorable impact on profit currency exchange had an unfavorable impact on gross margin percent of nearly 1 percentage point largely due to balance sheet revaluations following the significant decline in the Euro Australian dollar and Rial exchange rates that occurred in the last 3  weeks of the quarter.
Next raw materials were unfavorable $7.9 million due to increase metals and fuel costs.
And finally manufacturing benefited from restructuring savings and incremental margin on higher volumes partially offset by approximately $3 million in temporary inefficiencies associated with the transformation underway at our York facility.
During the fourth quarter we expect continued pressure on margins from the currency exchange I mentioned earlier higher raw material costs and continuing temporary inefficiencies at York.
On Slide 17 operating margin as a percent of revenue for the third quarter was 14.7% versus 9.3% in 2010.
Operating margin was favorably impacted by higher gross margin and lower year-over-year restructuring spending.
As expected SG&amp;A was roughly $11 million higher during the quarter compared to the same period last year as we continue to invest in the future.
During the fourth quarter we expect SG&amp;A to be higher than last year's fourth quarter due in part to our continued investment in our growth initiatives.
We continue to expect SG&amp;A spending to decline as a percent of revenue between 2009 and 2014.
Now moving on to our Financial Services segment on Slide 18.
In the third quarter HDFS operating profit improved $11.1 million or 21.9% compared to the last year.
The 3 key drivers of the third quarter results were net interest income was $7.9 million lower in the third quarter of 2011 versus third quarter of 2010.
During the quarter HDFS was able to repurchase at market prices approximately $44 million of the outstanding 2018 medium-term notes originally issued at an interest rate of 6.8% allowing us to replace this debt with lower interest rate debt.
The repurchase of these notes resulted in $8.7 million current period loss.
We will continue to evaluate future debt repurchase opportunities as they arise.
Next the provision for retail credit losses was $15.7 million lower in the third quarter of 2011 versus third quarter 2010 primarily due to improved credit losses as a result of favorable retail receivables performance.
And finally the provision for wholesale credit losses was $5 million lower in the third quarter of 2011 primarily due to favorable wholesale loss performance.
It's important to note that on a year-to-date basis we've released approximately $37 million of allowance from the balance sheet given anticipated credit loss performance across the entire portfolio.
While the release of this allowance benefits income this year we cannot assume a similar financial benefit will occur in 2012.
As we look forward to 2012 we believe HDFS's operating income will decrease compared to 2011 primarily due to the lapping of $37 million of 2011 balance sheet allowance releases I just mentioned.
We expect 2012 operating income will also be impacted by lower net interest and the book of retail loans continues to contract and modest tightening of margins on prime share retail lending.
Despite the anticipated decrease in year-over-year HDFS operating income the business is healthy and expected to be solidly profitable in 2012.
We are very pleased with the performance of the business and believe HDFS provides a competitive advantage for sales of Harley-Davidson motorcycles and related products.
Now Larry will provide more detail on HDFS as operations on Slide 19.
Larry? Thanks John.
And good morning.
During the third quarter HDFS retail motorcycle loan originations increased 14.2% or $78 million compared to the same period last year.
The increase was driven by higher new motorcycle loan originations behind a strong increase in retail sales and a 2.6 percentage point increase in market share.
Used motorcycle loan originations also increased compared to last year.
However as the higher level of receivables originated prior to the start of the economic downturn roll off the books finance receivables outstanding decreased 5.5% compared to a year ago.
This decline in receivables pool reflects the lower U.S.
retail sales over the last 2 years that will continue to impact HDFS net interest income.
Over the past several quarters HDFS has been focused on prudently increasing overall credit application approval rates.
And we saw a modest increase in the third quarter.
Our goal is to have a portfolio that continues to perform well over time and delivers an appropriate return on equity.
We are very pleased with the improved retail delinquency rate and retail credit losses compared to last year which you will see on Slide 20.
The 30-day delinquency rate for retail motorcycle loans at the end of the third quarter was 3.73% or 110 basis points better than the same date last year.
Annualized retail credit losses improved by 93 basis points to 1.11% in the first 9 months compared to the first 9 months of last year.
This improvement was driven by the impact of changes in underwriting implemented 2 years ago as well as a lower frequency of loss and improvement in the recovery values of repossessed motorcycles.
As John mentioned during the quarter we reduced the total allowance for credit losses by $11.8 million to reflect lower anticipated credit losses and lower receivable balances.
We will continue to evaluate the allowance each quarter using our disciplined process and make adjustments as appropriate.
We are pleased with the continued improvement in credit performance and we will continue to monitor the unemployment picture motorcycle recovery values and the overall U.S.
economic environment and manage HDFS appropriately.
During the third quarter HDFS delivered increased profits and maintained a strong liquidity position.
We remain focused on enabling retail sales of Harley-Davidson motorcycles while providing an attractive return to Harley-Davidson Inc.
Now let me turn it back to John.
Thanks Larry.
Now let's take a look at cash and liquidity on Slide 21.
You will see that at the end of the quarter we had just over $1.6 billion of cash and marketable securities.
In addition HDFS had approximately $980 million of available liquidity through bank credit and conduit facilities.
We currently have and will continue to maintain a minimum of 12 months of projected liquidity needs in cash and/or committed credit facilities.
During the quarter we completed a $600 million term securitization transaction at a weighted average rate of 0.84% and renewed $600 million conduit facility.
I am also very pleased to report that we repurchased approximately 2.5 million shares of Harley-Davidson stock for $91 million.
This is in addition to the 25% second quarter dividend increase.
As we have stated returning value to our shareholders through dividend and share repurchases is a top priority.
Looking forward we will continue to evaluate opportunities to enhance value to our shareholders.
Now I'll review the remaining Harley-Davidson financials on Slide 22.
I would like to highlight 2 items on this slide.
First with regards to continuing operations the company generated operating cash of $902 million during the first 9 months of 2011 which included a $200 million contribution to our pension plans.
And second through 9 months the company's effective tax rate was 30.4% compared to 34.0% in the year ago period.
The 2011 effective tax rate in the third quarter was favorably impacted by settlement of an IRS audit as well as a change in the Wisconsin income tax law associated with certain net operating losses.
Last year the effective tax rate through the third quarter was negatively impacted by the Health Care Reform Legislation offset by a favorable settlement of an IRS audit.
We now expect the full year effective income tax rate will be approximately 31% for 2011.
Now turning to guidance on Slide 23.
We continue to expect full year 2011 Harley-Davidson motorcycle shipments to be between 228 000 and 235 000 units up 8% to 12% from 2010.
During the fourth quarter we expect to ship between 45 500 and 52 500 units.
We now expect full year 2011 gross margin will be between 33.5% and 34.5%.
The guidance has been adjusted to account for the additional pressure we now expect from foreign currency exchange as a result of the significant decrease in valuation of our key currencies that started to occur at the end of the third quarter.
We continue to expect capital expenditures to be between $210 million and $230 million which includes between $70 million and $85 million of capital related to restructuring.
As we look back on the third quarter of 2011 we are pleased to deliver another strong quarter of results.
We continue to be encouraged by the strength of our brand which is demonstrated in part by a great response to our 2012 model year motorcycles and strong total demand for new and used Harley-Davidson motorcycles.
We are also pleased to report that we repurchased $91 million of our stock during the quarter.
While delivering another strong quarter we recognize the many challenges that lie ahead of us and our customers and therefore will continue to manage the business prudently as we navigate through any uncertainties that the future might bring.
Overall the fundamentals of our business are strong and we are excited about the long term.
We continue to build a solid foundation for sustainable growth.
We remain focused on executing against our strategies to complete the transformation of our organization and grow our business while delivering strong margins strong returns and value to our shareholders.
Thank you for your continued confidence and investment in Harley-Davidson.
And now I'll open the call up to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Tim Conder from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Thank you.
John I just wanted to revisit here the gross margin and the top line.
It seems like you're saying that the gross margin change in the guidance there is largely related to the FX so just clarity on that.
And then yet even though your production in the third quarter was lower in the lower half of your guidance range did that impact the gross margin or -- and I guess in relation to that is the impact there -- were the inefficiencies at York greater than anticipated during the third quarter.
So I guess that's several pieces to a broader gross margin question there.
And it appears you're going to make up that production because you didn't change your overall guidance for the year.
Okay Tim.
Well I'm going to start with the second question first is the impact of the York transformation on the third quarter and then we'll talk a little bit about the guidance that we presented.
When we look at gross margin the story in the third quarter really comes in 2 areas.
One is in the impact of the York transformation and the other is in the currency.
Certainly the transformation and the aspects included in that were expected.
They came in 2 flavors.
One was mix was impacted so we saw unfavorable mix in the quarter of $26.6 million due to the disruption in the temporary capacity constraints due to York restructuring.
And when we look at that several things happened in mix.
One is that given the temporary capacity constraints we relied more on product coming out of our Kansas City facility which typically have lower margins.
So we shipped less as a percent in Touring and custom motorcycles than we did our Sportsters.
And the temporary capacity constraints also affected our model mix.
And within the quarter we shipped lower content in lower priced bikes and again that was due to all the activities that we were going on in this facility.
And finally our geographic shipment mix was affected by the magnitude of change at York.
And just one second on that again Keith had mentioned we took 4 families of motorcycles some 22 models and put them all under the same line so all our employees are building all of our bikes.
And within that change we had 95% of our hourly employees are in or will be in new jobs in a short period of time.
So again we experienced a lot of downtime.
So a lot of it manifested itself in mix.
And in the second piece where it manifested itself was on the manufacturing line.
And we saw the manufacturing temporary inefficiencies on a year-over-year basis were unfavorable by $3 million.
I would like to point out though on the manufacturing line we did deliver $20 million of favorability.
And if you look back in the first quarter that was actually a negative $21 million improved to a favorable $7 million in the second quarter.
And then again this quarter at $20 million.
So the second part of your question Tim was on the gross margin guidance.
So as we look at gross margin as we sit through 3 quarters we are at 34.0% and the gross margin guidance that we had was 34% to 35%.
So with roughly 80% of the revenue behind us and the uncertainty related to the currency situation we felt it was prudent to lower the range by half a percentage point.
It's important to note here that there is nothing concerning to us about our core business or the restructuring.
We're very pleased with the retail sales our shipments and certainly the restructuring.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So York in and of itself your plan disruptions they were neither greater nor less than the plan during the third quarter is that -- am I interpreting that correctly? Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Aaron from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Actually we all wanted to ask the question on HDFS if I could.
You made a comment about tightening margins on time lending.
Is that to suggest that the lending environment now with those customers is becoming more competitive? And then just kind of a quick HDFS follow-up it sounds like you released a little bit less in terms of reserves in the third quarter versus what you were doing on a per quarter basis in the first half of the year.
Does that relate to any sort of change in kind of how you're kind of viewing where credit's gone? So as far as the first question Ed I would say yes we are seeing more competition in the prime lending space and that has put a little bit of pressure on margins in that area.
Regarding the allowance release I wouldn't say it's so much a change in the -- what we expect going forward as it's the release was probably bigger in the first quarter.
The improvement relative to previous quarters is less dramatic sort of as you go through each quarter.
We'll continue to use pretty disciplined process each quarter and evaluate it going forward.
But there's really no change in the performance or the outlook.
Your next question comes from the line of Sharon Zackfia from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk a little bit about what's going on at York and I guess I think it's no mystery that all of us are here and as the dealers want more Touring bikes I understand there's some constraints with that currently at York.
So if you could kind of help us understand the timeline I guess more granularly as to kind of when you can get back to I guess more normalized production of some of the families that are in high demand and what your capacity constraints are from a manufacturing perspective next year versus this year? Okay.
With regards to getting back to more normalcy we are going to experience temporary capacity constraints until the restructuring is done.
I think in the third quarter we certainly experienced it more than we had in previous quarters and we expect that to loosen up a little bit in the fourth quarter.
So when we look at overall mix we do expect mix to improve a bit in the third -- in the fourth quarter given the fact that the temporary capacity constraints are not as significant at that time.
But as I said Sharon we will continue to experience the temporary inefficiencies and capacity constraints until the restructuring is complete on a systemwide basis toward the end of 2013.
So while we're not providing shipment guidance at this point for next year we do believe that there is modest opportunity for increases in production next year despite the temporary constraints.
Your next question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just getting back to the gross margin.
I just want to understand or clarify which part -- you missed the gross margin expectations you missed guidance.
What part of that was a surprise to you? Was that just driven by FX or was it anything else? And then I have a housekeeping question.
Well the currency was certainly not expected.
And what we saw in overall currency -- first of all currency benefited in revenue by about $31 million $31.5 million.
And what happens there is we take the average currency rates for this quarter versus last quarter and apply it to revenue and that's the impact of on revenue.
So that $31.5 million did not cascade down to P&amp;L.
We only realized the benefit of $2.7 million.
And what happened there Felicia is that there was a precipitous fall in the exchange rates largely in the euro the real and the Australian dollar in the last 3 weeks of the quarter.
In the last 3 weeks of -- or in the last day of the quarter we revalue our balance sheet accounts assets and liabilities and that was quite unfavorable from what we would have expected going into the quarter.
And it brought down in aggregate overall gross margin for the quarter by about 4 percentage point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that was -- because everything else you talked about mix that you all saw and that was in your prior guidance correct? Right.
Research Division</strong> So when we look at your implied fourth quarter guidance other than FX they probably shouldn't be that much variability? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on housekeeping.
When you talked about SG&amp;A higher year-over-year on the quarter is that before after that one-time item that was in fourth quarter '10? Felicia that's all-in.
So right when you look at the actual results from last year's fourth quarter we expect SG&amp;A to be up a little bit from that in the fourth quarter of this year.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Kennison from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to push on York just one more time.
How many bikes would you have shipped if the York disruption had not impacted production? Did you work any overtime in York to offset some of that impact? And then finally to what extent were you able to leverage the new temporary workforce that's a new feature in the labor agreement that you've got? We do not work -- we worked a lot of overtime during the quarter.
Again with all of the change and people moving in positions the lines were down a fair amount which we expected and was planned.
At this point we are not leveraging the temporary workforce.
That will come in 2013 when we begin to surge capacity.
Right now again it is all to consolidate the lines onto a single line and it'll take this quarter and next quarter to gain stability from that.
And we'll see continually improving throughput against that objective.
Your next question comes from the line of Rod Lache from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to get a little bit of clarification on the Sportster mix.
Could you clarify for us what percentage of your retail sales at this point are Sportster mix? And I'm still I guess trying to get my arms around the impact of this the York transformation.
Presumably you're going to have some additional capacity next year that should be helpful.
Could you also -- and presumably the restructuring expense is going to go down and you'll have the savings that you've outlined.
What is the amount of inefficiency that separately from that that you're kind of flowing through the P&amp;L this year that would not recur next year? Rod we do not provide Sportster mix or any family mix as a percentage of retail sales.
We only do it with regards to shipment mix.
Sportsters during the quarter was 22.3% of our shipments.
And on a year-to-date basis was 22% of the overall shipment mix.
The second question with regards to the transformation is the transformation expense so far this year we had in temporary inefficiencies $11 million in the first quarter I believe it was $8 million in the second quarter and on a year-over-year basis $3 million in the third quarter.
That would have been gross inefficiencies of $7 million.
And we're lapping last year's fourth quarter -- I'm sorry third quarter results which was $4 million.
Now we'll move into the next quarter we expect the temporary inefficiencies to continue.
And next quarter we will be lapping a year ago number of $5 million.
And then as we get into 2012 we're not providing guidance at this time on gross margin or temporary inefficiencies.
However we will begin to lap the temporary inefficiencies that we had this year again $11 million $8 million and $3 million through the first 3 quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you give us any kind of color on what you would anticipate as additional capacity out of the York facility for the higher end lines next year versus this year? Again that's what I mentioned earlier there's still going to be temporary capacity constraints as we get through the different phases of this.
The next -- the big phase in 2012 will be to put in a fully integrated ERP system in York and that will also put some pressure on downtime.
We do expect there to be additional capacity in the modest realm at this point.
Again we look to provide shipment guidance on the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly any updated thoughts on capital allocation? And specifically over time what is the level of cash that you want to have on the balance sheet just on an ongoing basis? Well with regards to cash on the balance sheet we're committed to keeping 12 months of liquidity at all times.
And that can either be either be through cash or committed credit facilities through our bank facilities and our conduit.
We will continue to look and evaluate that cash situation in light of the opportunities to increase dividends and repurchase shares as we go forward.
Your next question comes from the line of James Hardiman from Longbow Research.
I wanted to continue to drill down on some of these gross margin items just because I think that's probably the biggest reason why your stock is getting beaten up this morning.
You mentioned really that the 3 major items.
Mix in the third quarter was a significant negative.
You said that that should improve in the fourth quarter.
Does that mean that $27 million is just going to be less negative or should we expect a positive in the fourth quarter? And then currency it sounds like is getting worse.
Should we expect a meaningful negative there? And then just finally on manufacturing you talked about that $3 million.
Is that a fair run rate going forward? Obviously you're lapping an even bigger number so I guess that question comes down to the remaining restructuring activities that are taking place at York.
Are we going to see those costs ramp up or do they continue to be where they are now even get a little bit less? As we look forward to the fourth quarter we expect the temporary inefficiencies and temporary capacity constraints to continue as we continue to come up to speed but we expect that they will significantly improve as we move forward.
As we look at the fourth quarter we expect mix to improve modestly but to continue to be pressured by the continuing restructuring that we have at York.
With regards to the currency it all depends on what happens to our currency exchange rates.
They are significantly lower today than they were a quarter ago.
And in the near term we do have some of that hedged.
And again the acute thing that happened in the third quarter was revaluation of our balance sheet assets and liability as that's kind of a low point of currencies and given the situation that we see in Europe.
So making no forward projection with regards to what's going to happen to currency exchange rates but they are lower today than they were as we started out the third quarter.
And finally James the last question was on the $3 million of temporary inefficiencies I believe in the third quarter and how do they look going forward.
Again with the activities that have taken place at York we expect that to continue to get better and improve.
And it just takes a lot of time when you're moving all the assets that we've got and retraining all the workers that are out there and the magnitude of activity that's going on.
So we expect that to be better in future quarters and better in the fourth quarter.
Fourth quarter a year ago we had temporary inefficiencies at that time which were driven by us outsourcing all the things that we used to make the non-core parts and the excess overheads that we were carrying and that was a $5 million hit a year ago.
So we will be lapping that in the fourth quarter and would expect overall improvement in temporary inefficiencies as we move forward.
Great.
And just to clarify and then I'll hop back in the queue.
When you say mix is expected to improve modestly in the fourth quarter are we actually going to see mix be a benefit to gross margins or is it just going to be less than a drag -- less of a drag than the $27 million that we saw in the third quarter? No we would expect it to be positive.
On a year-to-date basis mix is flat.
And the third quarter was hit hard by the 3 things that are happening or the 3 areas of mix that were impacted family geographic and model mix due to the restructuring at York.
We expect the restructuring to continue to progress and improve at York and therefore we would expect mix to be a benefit in the fourth quarter not a less of a negative but a benefit in the fourth quarter.
And all along we said that we expected mix on a full year basis to be modestly favorable.
Your next question comes from the line of Patrick Archambault from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to dig in a little bit on the currency issue.
I mean it sounds like looking through your deck it looks like this quarter it was dilutive.
Even though currency was a positive obviously the incremental margin on that is lower than your industry margins so it's dilutive.
I guess next quarter is it that impact because it also sounded like you mentioned there was some kind of a reevaluation effect I think you mentioned on balance sheet items that might be there as well.
So just wanted a little bit more granularity on sort of how that's expected to mechanically impact the P&amp;L in the fourth quarter.
Right.
Well Patrick you're absolutely right that the currency was dilutive.
As far as a percentage of our gross margin percent it impacted overall gross margins by nearly a percentage point.
And that was due to the favorable revenue side of it and much less favorable on the profit side.
The profit side was brought down quite considerably as we revalued.
So every quarter we've got to revalue our foreign assets given the currency exchange rates and that happens at the exchange rate at the end of the quarter.
And so they drop significantly from the beginning of the quarter.
The euro fell 5% Australian dollars fell 7% and the real fell 14% from the beginning of the quarter.
So we don't know what will happen in the fourth quarter.
If currency exchange rates improve the revaluation will be favorable if they're higher than they were in the first -- beginning of the fourth quarter.
So we don't know what that is.
But overall the euro Australian dollar and real are lower than they were that we enjoyed on an average basis in the third quarter.
And so we're cautious about currency at this point.
But we don't know where it's going to end up.
And all as we know is it's been hit largely  by events taking place in Europe.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
So basically if it just stayed where it was that would -- you're not taking a directional view you're just assuming if it stayed where it was now your new guidance is where you would wind up? Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Robin Farley from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First I just wanted to try and quantify.
I assume the IRS settlement in your tax line is a one-time benefit.
I'm just trying to quantify what that is to think about what earnings would have been  without the IRS settlement.
And then also completely unrelated just looking at used bike prices.
Can you give us a sense of what you think used bike prices are selling at as a discount to the price of a new bike just any kind of ballpark range where you think that is right now? Okay.
Robin the -- we're favorably impacted by 2 things that happened in the quarter with regards to our tax line item.
First is we settled an audit with the IRS for tax years 2005 to 2008 and we had a favorable position on our domestic manufacturing credit as well as the R&amp;D credit.
And we released some of the reserves that we have placed against that and that provided favorability.
The other thing is is that the Wisconsin tax law changed with regards to net operating losses.
If you remember back to the first quarter of 2009 we took a fairly big hit and at that time they wiped out the use of NOLs and now they've restored that.
So we brought that back on to the benefits of the company.
So those 2 together took down our quarterly tax rate to about 21.5% versus what the expectations were at about 35%.
Research Division</strong> But the use of NOLs is going to be an ongoing benefit I guess for you.
But I'm just wondering what was the -- was it $0.07 or $0.08 of EPS that was just a one-time thing from the IRS settlement? I don't have it translated to an impact  on earnings per share Robin.
Again the tax rate for the quarter was 21.5% versus the guidance before that was 35% and you would have to calculate it out.
I don't know what it is in terms of EPS.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on used bike pricing? Yes.
During the quarter we've seen the trend continue is that we've seen used bike prices generally firm during the quarter.
Believe that our strategy of managing the supply of motorcycles is working well.
We've seen total demand increase during the quarter.
And again used bike price is firm.
In terms of a percentage of where we are today versus where we were before we don't provide that granular of information on used bike pricing.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Hovorka from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to talk a little bit more about mix.
I understand the impact it has on gross margin but I was actually kind of surprised at the magnitude of the impact.
So if I look at your incremental gross margins in total for the quarter they're about 24% 24.5%.
And even if I add back FX you're still only about 25.5%.
That would imply that you're selling some of the incremental bikes sold in the quarter were at gross margins that were I mean at best low-20s and probably in the teens.
I guess I wasn't -- first is that number right? And secondly what bikes have margins that are that low? That's not necessarily correct.
Remember when we've said numerous times in the past mix is affected by family mix model mix geographic mix option mix and mix within P&amp;A and General Merchandise.
During the third quarter we had impacts for many of these factors and with many of them being unfavorable largely driven by the events at York.
So let's go through some of them.
Is family mix perspective that was unfavorable.
And that was straight family on a shift between lower-priced bikes and higher-priced bikes.
Largely because York produces most of our higher margin bikes which are the Touring and Softail line.
So we have a couple of percentage point shift between our production at York and in Kansas City.
The -- also were affected by the model mix.
So for most of the year we've had favorable model mix.
And that is people trading up to higher-priced bikes within a family.
And given the activities at York the model mix was also unfavorable this quarter as the Touring and Softail families reproduced motorcycles with lower content and therefore lower-priced bikes during the quarter.
And finally the third piece of the York effect was normal shipping patterns were disrupted due to the magnitude of change that was occurring in York.
And that had an impact in our geographic mix or the shipment to various countries and shipping bikes to lower-margin countries.
And even outside the motorcycle mix we had unfavorable mix in our P&amp;A business.
And as we work to increase our share of the consumables line of products which includes oils and tires they're at a lower margin than our parts and accessories so we had a little bit unfavorable mix there.
So it's not only motorcycle it's across all of the revenue base.
And so you can't apply it all to motorcycle margins Joe.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So part of the mix is actually you're saying the mix shifting away from General Merchandise and P&amp;A as well? Well no I didn't say that.
I said that was unfavorable mix driven by increased shipments of our consumable product.
As we increase our share of that market share of that business it just happens to be at a lower margin than the others.
We've seen very good growth in both of our General Merchandise and Parts and Accessories business both at about 8% for the quarter.
It's a focus on additional product line and our parts and accessories business.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Aaron from RBC Capital markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just one more clarification on kind of near-term York issues.
It sounds like from your perspective the line rates are about where you would have expected them to be.
But you did ship kind of toward the lower end of guidance this quarter and it's a relatively wide range of production expected for the fourth quarter.
So just at the margin it kind of seems like maybe it's -- the line rates are maybe a little lower than where you would ideally think that they would be at this point.
Can you just help me reconcile that a little bit with your commentary that it -- you're where you expected to be? This is Keith.
There have been a lot of questions on York.
And so if we just sort of go back about a year I mean I don't think anything's a whole lot different than what we've said.
We said all along that first of all the transformation that we were going to go through not only in York but also in Milwaukee and Tomahawk and Kansas City is big.
So this is not us just sort of shuffling people around.
You've got to remember we outsource over half of the work in terms of people that were in the York facility.
So we're just now going through the belly of that whole transition and coming out of that.
And as John mentioned so what that means is is that a lot of people that worked in stamping or plating or grinding or wherever are now -- have now been shifted over to the new assembly line.
So they're all going through massive training and learning on the job.
In addition to that we've taken the dedicated assembly lines where we would produce just one family of products sort of a repetitive manufacturing process that we move now to the flexible manufacturing line whereby all those products can be built on the same line which introduces a lot of complexity in terms of production planning component planning and those kinds of things.
And in addition to that you can imagine the amount of systems work and software involved in the guided robotic systems that we now produce all of our products on.
So it's like a massive amount of change.
And we've said all along that we would be out of this part of the change at least in York at the end of 2012.
So we're still a year away.
So it's hard for us to predict quite frankly from day-to-day what kind of issues we're going to have.
Now if you go back in time about a month we had some -- a lot of significant issues with downtime because we had outsourced a lot of our subassembly work and we we're having some problems with getting the right parts to the line at the right time.
And all those issues now have been I would say resolved 95%.
Our run rates have come up significantly in the last month.
We're hitting more of our schedule on a daily basis.
And so I mean are we disappointed that things haven't been perfect? Yes.
But I will tell you that we're pleased with where we are in this transformation given the magnitude of the work.
And so I think it will only get better.
And again we're running one shift because we just could not -- we cannot absorb that amount of retraining and training on more than one  shift at this point in time.
So any concerns about capacity in the future there are 3 shifts in a day right? So I mean and we've said this all along capacity is not going to be an issue.
And the ability for us to get our mix back in line isn't going to be an issue in the future.
And we will be able to produce at line rates et cetera.
Now is that going to be 3 days from now or 10 days from now or 18 days from now? I mean it's hard for me to say.
But I hope that helps clarify that what we're doing here is if you go back to our strategic plan and you go back to our transformation plan what we're doing is putting in a flexible world-class manufacturing process which when completed will give us the flexibility to be closer to our customer to be much more cost effective and to be able to move more toward customization of production in the plant.
So this is a little bit longer term solution that we're looking at here and we have a lot of great people on-site working through these issues every day and we feel good about where we're at.
Your last question comes from the line of Gerrick Johnson from BMO Capital Markets.
I apologize if you addressed this already couple of calls here but can you break down your retail sales through the quarter how they trend through each month? Is that something you can discuss? We don't provide or comment on inter-quarter retail sales Gerrick.
The reason being is there's too many factors that could affect monthly comparisons such as timing product availability weather promotional activity.
For example in the third quarter of this year we released our model year 2012 product one month early that we have a significant impact on year-over-year monthly comparisons.
The important thing to note is that Harley-Davidson has posted improved retail results for the last 9 quarters and we continue to build the fundamental building blocks for sustainable growth.
And so we're not focused on any particular month.
We're looking off into the future and doing what is necessary to provide a base for sustainable growth going forward.
There are no further questions at this time.
Thank you for your time this morning.
We appreciate your investment in Harley-Davidson.
The audiovisual support for today's call will be available at harley-davidson.com.
The audio can also be accessed until November 1 by calling (404) 537-3406 or (855) 859-2056.
In the U.S..
The number is 10918326 pound.
If you have any questions please give us a call at (414) 343-8002.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Melissa and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Amy Giuffre Director of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you Melissa and welcome to Harley-Davidson's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
The audio for today's call is being webcast live on www.harley-davidson.com.
The slides which are generally available at least 30 minutes prior to the call can be accessed by clicking on Company Investor Relations then Events and Presentations.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks that could cause actual results to be materially different.
Those risks include among others matters we have noted in our latest earnings release and filings with the SEC.
Harley-Davidson disclaims any obligation to update information in this call.
This morning you'll hear from Harley-Davidson's CEO Keith Wandell; CFO John Olin; and President of Harley-Davidson Financial Services Larry Hund.
Then we'll open the call for your questions.
So let's get started.
Keith? Well thank you Amy.
Good morning and thanks for joining us on the call.
Throughout 2011 everyone at Harley-Davidson has been hard at work transforming our company.
We've come a long way and I couldn't be more proud of our team.
And I know our entire team finds it gratifying to see these efforts reflected in the financial results that we reported today.
Our fourth quarter continued the positive trend of this year.
We had strong improvement earnings in Q4 capping off a year in which earnings more than doubled from 2010.
And the year finished strong at retail as well.
New Harley-Davidson motorcycles were up almost 11% worldwide compared to last year's fourth quarter and up almost 6% for the full year.
And sales were strong in both the U.S.
and the international markets.
Once again we gained market share.
For the fourth quarter Harley-Davidson held a 59.4% share of the U.S.
heavyweight market and our 2011 full-year market share was 55.7%.
These results are a demonstration of the dedication and hard work of all of our employees and our dealers to be customer-led and to fulfill customers' dreams through remarkable motorcycles and extraordinary customer experiences.
We are committed to be world class in everything we do to be more agile more efficient and more effective at developing and building great motorcycles and delivering them to customers around the world.
Let's take a look at some of the key milestones along our journey.
In 2011 we made great strides in the transformation of our York operations.
All the motorcycles there are now built under one roof on one assembly line.
But even more powerful than the bricks-and-mortar change is the change in the culture where the employees in the line are creating and implementing operating improvements on a daily basis.
Similar changes are underway in the operating structure at Kansas City and we're on a fast ramp-up in Milwaukee and Tomahawk in preparation for the new contract that will enable these changes in just a couple of months.
And our CKD operations in Brazil and India are implementing these operation systems as well.
We also moved into a new facility in Brazil to give us the capability and the capacity to meet the needs of that growing market going forward.
When it comes to creating remarkable motorcycles we have reengineered our entire product development approach and it really started to gain traction in 2011.
The goal is to implement a laser-focus on the best product opportunities to reduce time-to-market and increase product development capacity through efficiencies.
And while this work is more behind the scenes and not as visible as manufacturing it's just as significant.
At retail we began the work with our worldwide dealer network to provide the capabilities and systems that will improve all the ways that Harley-Davidson interacts with customers.
The goal is to provide a premium retail experience with every customer everyday and everywhere in the world while strengthening our dealer profitability.
One example is e-commerce where in 2011 we laid the foundation for an entirely new rich and distinctly Harley-Davidson online shopping experience that will roll out this year.
And in 2011 we continue to expand in international markets.
We opened regional headquarter offices in Singapore to support the Asia Pacific region and in Miami to support Latin America and Mexico.
We added 35 dealers in international markets including Mexico India Thailand Turkey China and Brazil.
In fact in Brazil we completely restarted retail operations through 11 new dealers.
And together with the team here at Harley-Davidson they have done a fantastic job and it's the key reason along with improvements in Mexico for the 17.5% retail sales growth in Latin America in 2011.
And there are many other examples of progress including the nearly completed efforts to rightsize the U.S.
dealer network and to support them more effectively and our continued success reaching young adults women and other outreach customers even while we retain remarkable brand loyalty with our existing customers or outperforming a flat S&amp;P 500 with a 12% rise in share value.
And while we're encouraged by all this progress there's still a lot to be done over the coming months and our team is working harder than ever to deliver on our goals.
And as we look at the rest of 2011 we will continue to keep a close watch on the marketplace and remain cautious in our expectations at retail given the degree of continued economic uncertainty including regions like the euro zone.
But our vision is clearly set on the future as we continue the transformative work that's underway and we continue efforts to restore margins and profitability and to continue to meet the challenges of the ever-changing marketplace.
By transforming our approach to product development manufacturing and the retail experience we believe we will continue to exceed customers' expectations globally to create growth opportunities and sustain our business for all of our stakeholders.
So again I want to thank all of our employees our dealers and our suppliers for their tremendous efforts in 2011 and for their hard work in the coming year.
And thanks to our shareholders for your investment in Harley-Davidson.
So I'll be back later to answer questions but now let me turn it over to John Olin.
Thanks Keith and good morning everyone.
I will review the financial results starting on Slide 9 with the fourth quarter results.
During the quarter Harley-Davidson Inc.
consolidated revenue was up 9.3% behind a 14.0% increase in shipments of Harley-Davidson motorcycles.
Our fourth quarter income from continuing operations improved to $54.6 million an increase of $96.7 million.
Similarly earnings -- diluted earnings per share rose to $0.24 per share up from the year-ago quarter which was a negative $0.18 per share.
Operating income from the Motorcycle business was up $35.6 million up $42.3 million compared to last year's fourth quarter.
The strong increase in the Motorcycle business was driven by increased motorcycle shipments and a higher gross margin as compared to last year partially offset by higher SG&amp;A and restructuring spending.
Operating income at Harley-Davidson Financial Services was up 30.7% behind improved credit loss performance.
Finally our improved financial performance for the quarter was also driven by a lower year-over-year interest expense as a result of the December 2010 repurchase of $297 million of high interest notes.
We are very pleased with the fourth quarter's results and continued progress against our growth strategies and the transformation of our business.
Now let's take a look at retail sales on Slide 10.
Overall worldwide retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles were up nearly 11% in the fourth quarter the largest quarter-over-quarter increase in the past 25 quarters.
For the full year worldwide retail sales were up 5.9% compared to 2010.
This reflects global product appeal -- strong global product appeal worldwide dealer efforts and our continued investment in growth opportunities around the world.
In the U.S.
retail sales in the quarter were up double digits despite the challenging but slightly improving economic environment.
Sales in the U.S.
during the quarter were supported by strong product offerings improved consumer confidence and improved product availability.
For the full year U.S.
retail sales were up 5.8% and the full-year market share strengthened by 0.8 percentage points to 55.7%.
Retail sales in international markets for the quarter grew 9.7% driven by growth in all regions.
For the full year international retail sales were up 6.1%.
During the fourth quarter Latin America was up over 40% as the dealer networks in Brazil and Mexico continue to come up to speed and tap into new growth opportunities in those markets.
Canada was up 18.8% in the quarter which pushed Canada's full-year retail sales into positive territory for the year.
Sales in the quarter benefited from consumers in Québec purchasing motorcycles before a sales tax increase took effect in January.
The Europe region was up nearly 6% for the quarter compared to 2010.
Similar to last quarter Germany France and emerging markets saw a strong retail sales growth partially offset by softness in Southern Europe and the U.K.
Market share through November was 7 -- 13.7% up 1 percentage points our highest market share ever in the European market.
Retail sales in the Asia Pacific region were up 2.5% in the quarter driven by double-digit sales growth in both Australia and emerging markets partially offset by declines in Japan.
On Slide 11 you'll see wholesale shipments of Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the quarter were up compared to last year and within our expected shipment range of 45 500 to 52 500 motorcycles.
Temporary production constraints at York eased during the fourth quarter allowing a higher mix of Touring motorcycles compared to last year.
Sportster represented 18.1% of total fourth quarter shipments and finished near the high end of the historical range of 18% to 22% for the full year which was expected due to strong demand for Sportster models and because York production has been temporarily constrained.
Slide 12 provides some additional detail on the U.S.
dealer network inventory and demonstrates the strength of our brand as measured by total demand in the U.S.
During the fourth quarter inventory in the U.S.
grew nearly 10 000 units from third quarter 2011 level as dealers prepared for spring.
Year-end U.S.
dealer inventory was up slightly compared to last year.
We remain committed to aggressively managing new motorcycle supply in line with demand.
We believe that the U.S.
dealer network profit margins have improved compared to last year behind higher retail sales and prudent management of their cost structures.
Used bike sales in the U.S.
dealer network were up double digits through November compared to the same period last year.
When you combine used bikes sold through all channels with new bike sales total demand for Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the U.S.
remains strong.
On Slide 13 you'll see revenue for the Motorcycles and Related Product segment was up 12.0% in the fourth quarter and up 11.6% for the full year behind strong growth from all our businesses.
Harley-Davidson motorcycle revenue was up 13.5% behind the 14.0% increase in shipments during the fourth quarter and up 13.3% behind a 10.7% increase in shipments for the full year.
For the full year the average motorcycle revenue per unit increased $340 from the prior year primarily driven by favorable currency exchange.
Parts and Accessories sales were up 7.9% for the quarter driven in part by holiday sales promotions focus on product availability and growth in new and used motorcycle sales.
For the full year P&amp;A sales were up 9.0% over 2010.
General Merchandise was up 12.8% in the fourth quarter as a result of increased sales in certain categories such as leather and sportswear.
For the full year General Merchandise revenue was up 5.8% over 2010.
Turning to restructuring on Slide 14.
For the last 3 years we've been intensely focused on improving our cost structure and transforming the business to be stronger more flexible and more profitable in the future.
York continues to be a key focus of our restructuring activities.
During the fourth quarter we continued to experience downtime but we achieved our targeted throughput rates by the end of the fourth quarter which was ahead of our initial expectations.
Also during the fourth quarter we announced our plan to exit our Australian wheel and hub manufacturing operations.
We experienced $6 million in temporary inefficiencies during the quarter and $32 million for the full year.
Restructuring expenses were $19.0 million for the fourth quarter and $68.0 million for the full year which was slightly lower than anticipated.
We have adjusted our remaining total projected restructuring costs to reflect refined timing and reduced the range of total expected program costs due to favorability to date.
We expect temporary inefficiencies in 2012 to be generally in line with our 2011 temporary inefficiencies as we complete the restructuring at York implement our new labor contracts in Kansas City and Wisconsin and exit our wheel manufacturing operations in Australia.
In the second quarter of 2012 we plan to implement a new ERP system at York which we expect will give us many new capabilities across the supply chain including the ability to do more factory customization enable more flexible production and provide end-to-end supply chain integration.
We expect to experience downtime at York as the system is installed and our employees manage through the steep learning curve.
To minimize the impact on dealers and customers during the implementation we produced more motorcycles than typical in the fourth quarter and expect to carry higher company inventory into the second quarter of 2012 when we expect production to be impacted by the ERP implementation.
As a result fourth quarter inventory was up $92 million largely due to approximately 7 000 additional units that were built during the quarter.
As of the end of 2011 we realized $217 million in annual ongoing savings as a result of restructuring activities which was within our expected range.
We continue to expect total ongoing annual savings of between $315 million and $335 million upon completion of our restructuring activities.
On Slide 15 you'll see gross margin in the quarter was 31.2% which was 1.6 percentage points higher than last year.
Gross margin for the quarter was favorably impacted by all areas noted on the slide except raw materials which were unfavorable due to increased metals and fuel costs compared to last year.
Manufacturing benefited from restructuring savings and incremental margin on higher volumes.
Full-year gross margin was 33.4% which was 0.8 percentage points below the prior year and slightly lower than our expected range of 33.5% to 34.5%.
Gross margin was impacted by higher than expected raw material costs and mix that was less favorable than expected.
On Slide 16 operating margin as a percent of revenue for the fourth quarter was 3.5% up 4.2 percentage points compared to last year's fourth quarter.
Operating margin was favorably impacted by higher gross margin partially offset by higher SG&amp;A and restructuring costs.
As expected SG&amp;A was roughly $6 million higher during the quarter compared to the same period last year driven by the recent rate recalls -- switch recall.
For the full year SG&amp;A increased $41.7 million from 2010 largely a result of investment in growth and the recall.
As a percent of revenue SG&amp;A was 1.3 percentage points lower at 19.9% as compared to 2010.
We expect SG&amp;A spending will increase on a year-over-year basis as we continue to invest in growth but decrease as a percent of revenue through 2014.
Now moving on to Financial Services segment on Slide 17.
In the fourth quarter HDFS profit increased $13.3 million or 30.7% compared to last year.
The 3 key drivers of fourth quarter results were: the provision for retail credit losses was $8.6 million lower in the fourth quarter 2011 versus the fourth quarter 2010 primarily due to lower credit losses as a result of favorable retail receivables performance; Second provision for wholesale credit losses was $3.2 million lower in the fourth quarter of 2011 primarily due to favorable wholesale credit loss performance; and finally HDFS operating expenses were $3.7 million lower than last year.
On a full-year basis HDFS posted an operating profit of $268.8 million an increase of $86.9 million or 47.8% compared to last year.
As we look forward to 2012 we believe HDFS' operating income will decrease compared to 2011 primarily due to the lapping of approximately $40 million of 2011's balance sheet allowance releases.
We cannot assume a similar financial benefit will reoccur in 2012.
We expect 2012 operating income will also be impacted by lower net interest as a book of retail loans continues to contract and modest tightening of margins on prime tier retail lending.
We are very pleased with the performance of the business and believe HDFS provides a competitive Harley-Davidson Motorcycles and Related Products.
Now Larry will provide more detail on HDFS' operations on Slide 18.
Larry? Thanks John and good morning.
During the fourth quarter HDFS retail motorcycle loan originations increased 14.2% or $43 million.
This increase was driven by higher new motorcycle loan originations behind a strong increase in retail sales and a 2.6 percentage point increase in market share.
Used motorcycle loan originations also increased compared to last year.
For the full year HDFS retail market share of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles sold in the U.S.
was 51.0% up 3.1 percentage points compared to last year.
In 2011 80% to 85% of our new loan originations were prime in line with last year.
At year end 74% of our total portfolio was comprised of loans originated post underwriting changes made in January 2009.
However with the higher level of receivables originated prior to the start of the economic downturn rolling off the books finance receivables outstanding decreased 4.5% compared to a year ago.
This declining receivables pool reflects the lower U.S.
retail sales through the downturn and will continue to impact HDFS net interest income.
During 2011 HDFS was focused on prudently increasing overall credit application approval rates and we saw a modest increase in the fourth quarter.
Our goal is to have a portfolio that continues to perform well over time and delivers an appropriate return on equity.
We are very pleased with the improved retail delinquency rate and retail credit losses compared to last year which you will see on Slide 19.
The 30-day delinquency rates for retail motorcycle loans at December 31 2011 was 3.85% or 122 basis points better than the same date last year.
Annualized retail credit losses improved by 91 basis points to 1.20% for 2011 compared to last year driven by the impact of changes in underwriting implemented 3 years ago as well as a lower frequency of loss and improvement in the recovery value of repossessed motorcycles.
A portion of this loss improvement is due to recoveries on loans written off in prior years.
Given the strong credit performance of loans originated since 2009 we expect lower levels of recoveries in future periods.
We are pleased with the progress at HDFS in 2011.
During the year we maintained a strong liquidity position reduced our cost of funds and delivered strong profitability.
We remain focused on enabling sales at Harley-Davidson motorcycles while providing an attractive return to Harley-Davidson Inc.
The most recent example of this is a $225 million dividend HDFS paid to Harley-Davidson Inc.
earlier this month.
Now let me turn it back to John.
Thanks Larry.
Now let's take a look at cash and liquidity on Slide 20.
You'll see that at the end of the quarter we had nearly $1.7 billion of cash and marketable securities which includes the impact of a $525 million asset-backed securitization transaction that HDFS completed during the quarter at a weighted average rate of 0.99%.
In addition HDFS had $920 million of available liquidity through bank credit and conduit facilities.
We currently have and intend to continue to maintain a minimum of 12 months of projected liquidity needs in cash and/or committed credit facilities.
Earlier this month there were 2 significant transactions related to cash in 2012.
Larry just mentioned the dividend HDFS paid to H-D Inc.
We also made a $200 million contribution to our qualified pension plans which will reduce our year-end pension and post-retirement liability of $571 million.
I'm also very pleased to report that during the quarter we repurchased approximately 3.5 million shares of Harley-Davidson stock for $127 million.
As we have stated returning value to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases is a top priority.
We will continue to evaluate opportunities to enhance value for our shareholders.
Now I'll review the remaining Harley-Davidson Inc.
financials on Slide 21.
I'd like to highlight 2 items on this slide.
First with regards to continuing operations the company generated operating cash of $885 million during 2011 after a $200 million contribution to our pension plans.
The motorcycle business continued to generate strong cash flow of $673 million of operating cash during the year.
And second for the full year the company's effective tax rate from continuing operations was 30.9% compared to 33.5% in 2010.
In 2012 we expect full-year effective income tax rate will be approximately 35.5%.
As noted on Slide 22 during the fourth quarter we realized a $51.0 million benefit on income from discontinued operations driven by the reversal of prior-year tax reserves related to our divestiture of MV Agusta.
We do not anticipate any further financial implications associated with our sale of MV Agusta.
The summary for the full year 2011 financial results is on Slide 23.
We had net income of $548.1 million from continuing operations in 2011 which was double compared to last year's results.
Earnings were positively impacted by higher revenues and improved operating margins in the Motorcycle segment strong operating income at HDFS lower year-over-year interest expense as a result of repurchase of $297 million of debt in 2010 and a lower effective tax rate in 2011 as compared to 2010.
On Slide 24 you'll see that for 2012 we expect Harley-Davidson motorcycle shipments to be between 240 000 and 245 000 units on a worldwide basis up 3% to 5% from 2011.
Our full year 2012 shipment estimate takes several factors into consideration including macroeconomic concerns near-term production limitations driven by our ongoing restructuring activities and our strategy to move production closer to retail sales.
First while we are encouraged by our strong retail sales in the fourth quarter we remain cautious on the U.S.
recovery and concerned over the continuing debt crisis in Europe.
In 2012 we will continue to aggressively manage the supply of new motorcycles in line with demand.
Second as I mentioned during the restructuring comments we expect temporary capacity constraints to offset or to affect our production volume in the second quarter.
To mitigate production disruptions during the implementation of the new ERP system in York we expect to carry higher company inventory into the second quarter of 2012 and we expect production to be impacted by the implementation.
Lastly our 2012 shipment guidance takes into consideration a new capability to efficiently flex our labor force starting in the first half of 2013.
This capability is a key component of our strategy to be more flexible and to efficiently produce motorcycles closer to customer demand.
Beginning in early 2013 we expect to be able to increase production at our York facility by adding flexible workers thus increasing capacity utilization in the first and second quarters of 2013.
Consequently in the U.S.
we expect our detailer -- our dealers to retail more units than we ship in 2012 thereby lowering year-end retail inventory in the U.S.
dealer network.
Our ability to maximize flexibility in the entire manufacturing system will occur in 2014 when the same capability will be in place for our Kansas City and Wisconsin operations.
During the first quarter we expect shipments -- we expect to ship between 58 000 and 63 000 units in an effort to increase U.S.
first quarter dealer inventory and prepare for second quarter implementation of the ERP system.
This increase in the first quarter shipments is possible because the York plant is currently running at our targeted throughput.
We expect full year 2012 gross margin will be between 34.75% and 35.75%.
We expect gross margin will be positively impacted by incremental restructuring savings increased productivity from everyday continuous improvement opportunities and the 2012 model year pricing actions announced in July 2011.
We believe that product mix raw materials and temporary inefficiencies from our restructuring activities will be comparable to 2011 levels while we expect currency to be a headwind in 2012.
Finally we expect capital expenditures to be between $190 million and $210 million which includes approximately $25 million of capital related to restructuring.
As we look back on 2011 we are very pleased to deliver strong results and progress on many fronts.
As Keith and I mentioned earlier earnings for 2011 more than doubled.
We also repurchased 6 million shares of our stock for $218 million during the year.
Retail sales in all regions were up compared to last year and we gained market share in major markets around the world as increasingly more diverse customers are being drawn to the Harley-Davidson experience.
We have made great strides towards transforming to a best-in-class manufacturing and product development and have sharpened our focus on continuous improvement across the organization.
We'll continue to prudently manage through any challenges the future might bring and we are excited about the long term.
We remain focused on executing against our strategies to complete the transfer -- to complete the transformation of our organization and grow our business while delivering strong margins strong returns and value to our shareholders.
Thank you for your continued confidence and investment in Harley-Davidson.
And now let's open the call up to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> You guys kind of touched on this a little bit but I just wanted to talk about your unit guidance for 2012 just to understand it a little bit more clearly.
You mentioned that it's heavily weighted through the first quarter.
You booked in inventory in the fourth quarter you built funding in the first half just to kind of compensate for potential disruptions.
I'm just wondering I just want to make sure that I'm interpreting this correctly based on that comment would you expect unit growth to be up again in the second quarter? And then is it possible for us to see units down for the rest of the year? And then just one follow-up with gross margins I was wondering if you could just walk us through the components of the $17.9 million improvement related to manufacturing because that was the biggest difference between your actual and our estimates.
Okay Felicia.
Again as you had mentioned in the fourth quarter we were running very well at York and we produced 7 000 more units of product from York that will hold that inventory for shipment in the second quarter.
Our guidance for the first quarter is up I believe 8% to 17%.
And with that we hope to build a little bit extra in the first quarter too to bring that into the second quarter.
We're not providing specific guidance for the second quarter at this time.
But to say that given the implementation of the ERP system production will be affected quite a bit probably during the quarter down about 40%.
So again we're not going to provide second quarter but we should have inventory to cover the implementation of the ERP system or the downtime caused by that.
And the second question Felicia I believe was the $18 million of manufacturing favorability in the fourth quarter.
And that was driven largely by the restructuring savings that we've had coming in.
So when we look at restructuring on a full-year basis we had $45 million of favorability and a lot of that came in in the second half in the second quarter and the -- I'm sorry in the second half in the third and fourth quarter and that's largely the $18 million.
Also benefiting manufacturing in the fourth quarter was the incremental volume that we produce.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So maybe I missed this but you guys missed the guidance.
So I'm just trying to figure out where that -- well I guess the quarter came in lower than we would have expected based on your guidance.
So I was just trying to understand where the difference was.
Yes.
So overall -- so on a full-year basis let's talk about full year we had gross margin of 33.4%.
Our guidance as of the third quarter was 33.5% to 34.5%.
And so that would put -- we missed a little bit expectations in the fourth quarter because we gave that guidance in the third quarter.
Two things that affected our profitability in the fourth quarter in terms of gross margin and one of them was raw materials.
Raw materials increased in its unfavorability from 7.9% to 9.
-- $7.9 million to $9 million dollars.
Given the fact that our shipments went down by about 20% we had expected raw materials to come down a little bit on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
So that was a little bit of it it takes time for the raw material increases to flow through the system.
And we would expect the raw materials cost to start to mitigate at this point going forward.
The second area is mix.
So coming out of the third quarter we had an unfavorable mix of about $27 million driven by the disruptions at York at that time.
We said we expected mix to be favorable in the fourth quarter and it is by $1 million.
However we did expect a little bit more favorability out of mix.
Good news is is that the mix was not driven by our Touring production.
Matter of fact Touring production was 42.6% of our overall production for the quarter and over the last 3 years that's the highest production of Touring that we had.
I think one other quarter we're also at 42.6%.
So again the plant was working very well.
So where mix was a little bit less than expectations was on model mix and an example of that would have been high-content CVO and very high profitable CVO models.
So we pushed some of that off and we'll make it up in ensuing months given the high content and the complexity of that.
Another example of mix being a little bit less than anticipated was in our Parts and Accessories business.
I mentioned in the third quarter that we've got to focus on increasing our share of market in consumables which tend to have a lower margin and those sales were up quite considerably in the fourth quarter which is great news but it did affect our mix a little bit negatively.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Kennison from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> John you said that you plan to retail more than you ship in the U.S.
What is the worldwide expectation? The worldwide would be the same.
In aggregate we would expect shipments to be lower given our capability to move production closer to demand.
However given the shipment of international at the time it takes to get the bikes to international markets we would not expect a big move in international inventories.
But on a worldwide basis they'll be down led by the U.S.
Research Division</strong> So on a worldwide basis you expect to reduce inventory? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And then a quick follow-up on SAP could you give us any milestones to focus on for 2012 as you make progress on that initiative? Well right now we're -- we feel great about where we're at.
We're in the final phases of testing and we will begin the implementation in the second quarter.
So we'll know a lot more by the time we report earnings at the end of the second quarter.
So we feel good about where we're at.
We've built up inventories so that we don't disrupt the flow of product to our dealers and customers.
And it'll be installed by the end of the second quarter is the plan.
Your next question comes from the line of James Hardiman from Longbow Research.
Just wanted to delve in a little bit more with the shipment guidance for 2012.
As we think about that 3% to 5% growth rate obviously there are a lot of puts and takes with what you're doing.
I guess my question is from a production standpoint should we think about that 5% as ultimately the maximum amount of shipments we could get from your production given the inefficiencies at York? Or is that 5% more indicative of where you think retail is going to be once you've sort of account for some of those puts and takes? Well James overall 3% to 5% is driven by the 3 things: Concerns over the macroeconomics in particular in Europe; Some capacity constraints that we have in the first half; and the fact that we will be taking inventory out of the overall system which suggests that retail will be a little bit higher than year ago.
When we specifically look at the production constraints they're huge in the second quarter.
We were able to build forward in the fourth quarter.
So from a shipment perspective we're hoping to cover that.
But from an upside perspective the first half is very limited.
Back half we have a little bit more flexibility.
But again our selling season is largely in the spring and the summer season.
So we could go over the 5% but it would be more in the back half production versus first half.
We are very constrained in the first half in terms of production.
So ultimately I guess put another way if retail -- and obviously you don't give guidance on the retail.
But if retail came in much better than your expectations you could do more than that 5% from a shipment standpoint assuming that it was -- at least a good chunk of that came in the second half.
Yes.
We have more production capability in the second half of the year.
Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up I didn't hear -- I don't know if you really detailed it but there was the big recall within the quarter.
Can you quantify that for us? And where did that show up on your income statement? The recall we announced sometime during the fourth quarter.
We booked a charge of $11.8 million and that was to provide for a rear tail light switch that we needed to replace on a little over 300 000 motorcycles.
I believe it was a $2 to $3 part but with labor the total charge is $11.8 million.
And James that falls into SG&amp;A.
So you see for the quarter SG&amp;A was up $6 million.
It was driven by that charge of about $12 million that we took.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Conder from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> John if you could just kind of go over if you could a little bit at the timeline you'd outlined how the inefficiencies from York occurred in each of the quarters in 2011.
Can you kind of talk about us -- to us how that should look as far as where you should see the peak inefficiencies? I would guess it would potentially be in the second quarter.
You did comment that for the full year those inefficiencies I think York but I thought the way you phrased it would be -- for the whole system would be comparable year-over-year.
So that's question one.
And then maybe a question here for Larry regarding market share for HDFS.
Larry looking to 2012 would you anticipate holding share or could -- given the increased competitiveness especially in the super prime categories could you see that share potentially erode a little bit? I'll take the first part of that question Tim.
With regards to the temporary inefficiencies timing this year we -- number one is we do expect temporary inefficiencies to be in line with last year.
Last year the aggregate temporary inefficiencies were $32 million and that was driven by the first quarter of last year at $11 million and they kind of tapered off and ended the fourth quarter at $6 million.
We're not going to provide the timing of the overall inefficiencies next year but certainly the second quarter would be a time where we would see an increase.
And -- but we'll also have temporary inefficiencies in the back half of the year as we do the transformations at KC and Wisconsin in terms of the training that needs to be done there as well as we move our wheel supply to alternate suppliers.
So those will affect our backhalf temporary inefficiencies.
LLC Research Division</strong> So just to clarify on that John the second quarter could actually be up year-over-year on the inefficiencies standpoints just given the magnitude of things that are occurring in that quarter.
Yes it certainly could be.
And then this is Larry Tim.
On HDFS market share our market share for the year was 51% and we picked up 3 points a share this year.
I would not expect to see significant growth beyond that.
We are seeing some competition in the prime space.
But I also think we're out there with competitive programs and we should have a reasonable share next year.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Aaron from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> It sounds like you're expecting just only a modest mix benefit in 2012.
And I'm wondering how much do you expect that the capacity constraints will affect that mix number this year? In other words is the inventory depletion that you're expecting to see in 2012 with retail increasing faster than wholesale shipments is that depletion going to come from products that are more favorable from a mix perspective? Well Ed when we look at overall mix we expect it to be flat.
We got to remember that all kinds of things affect mix and within motorcycle mix there's location there's family there's model.
And then there's parts and accessories.
So one it says it's a tough thing to zero in on.
But when we look at overall mix we take in to consider new product offerings incremental growth that we've got in our international markets and our outreach efforts that are tend to be more toward the lower end product and then we certainly got the strong demand for a higher end.
The capacity constraints will affect a little bit our mix but in aggregate when we take it all and blend it all together it looks to be that mix will be pretty flat versus year ago.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one follow-up if I could on HDFS.
You released I think the number was $40 million of reserves in 2011.
I know you're not expecting to replicate that in 2012 but do you see any room to release additional reserves this year even if it's more modest than what you had in 2012? Right now we feel great about where we're at with the reserves.
And based on where we're at right today is no we would not.
But we'll continue to read the situation in what credit losses due next year and continue to evaluate the overall portfolio and make adjustments as we see at that time.
But at this time we feel very good about where we're at with regards to our reserves.
Your next question comes from the line of Sharon Zackfia from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to maybe go a little bit off in left field and talk about India.
As you've been ramping up there kind of that there any benchmarks you can share with us about the performance in India so far and ultimately how you think that market developed versus a market like China which probably hasn't been as strong of a market as you might have hoped initially? Okay.
Sharon we feel very good about India.
We put up an initial I believe it's 7 dealerships in the first year of operation.
We expect to add another 3 dealerships next year.
We're bringing more models in to do CKD which provides a much more favorable pricing environment.
So we were doing 3 CKD units and we're going to add 2 more as we look forward and again lower the price of those units that we're assembling in country.
So overall we feel very good.
When we look at it from India and China I think we probably would expect to see both of them as tremendous long-term growth for the company and probably a little bit quicker in India than China.
But both of them are going to be a good long-term investment and we're not expecting to see huge gains in terms of moving the overall company needle in the near term.
But those markets are growing at extreme rates on a year-over-year basis at this point.
Research Division</strong> And I guess John when would you expect those markets to actually be material the results? Is it 2015? Is it 2020? I mean what's kind of the game plan? Sharon we can't provide anything that far out.
What we're doing -- what we know today is we're doing the right things.
We're building the right dealer and distribution network.
We've got the right teams landed to build the markets and we're building the leisure sport of motorcycling as we go along.
So I don't think it's going to be way off into the future but it will be in the future.
Your next question comes from the line of Rod Lache from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was just wanting to dive a little bit into these production constraints a little bit more.
Just wondering first of all does it -- does the fact that you are going to be constrained does that affect your pricing strategy at all? And then as we look beyond 2012 as this increased flexibility comes online in 2013 can you talk about what your theoretical capacity might be at that point? Would it be 260 or 280? And also in 2014 it sounds like additional flexibility comes online.
How should we be thinking about not necessarily what you're going to produce but what you theoretically can have the flexibility to produce once you're done? Rod with regards to the production constraints as we've talked about for the last year and certainly in the first half of next year we'll have production constraints.
Does that affect our overall pricing strategy? The answer is that temporary constraints do not affect our overall pricing strategy.
What we're working now to do is to build on long-term pricing power and we feel good about where we're at and that's making sure that we've got the right products in the market at the right time.
We feel great about the fact that in July of this year we were able to raise prices in a very difficult economy 1% in the United States and 0.75% in Europe brought it down actually a little bit in Asia Pacific.
So the temporary constraints do not affect our pricing strategy.
But certainly our strategy is to improve our pricing power of our overall products.
The second question was with relationship to our flexible manufacturing strategy.
So part of the overall York restructuring and the new contracts that we've got is to be able to flex our production capability in the high season or the selling season.
And we're going to ease into that capability next year and we'll have that capability for York.
And then in 2014 we'll be able to do it across the system including the engine plant here in Wisconsin.
With regards to capacity it gives us a tremendous amount of capacity on a much smaller footprint that we had previously.
We're not going to provide an exact amount of capacity.
But what we've said is that we will have enough capacity without any huge investments to get back to where we were -- in a ballpark where we were pre-recession.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on the restructuring that you're doing there's some companies that have implemented these SAP systems pretty successfully and others have bid and tripped up a bit.
And you guys are implementing all of this while there's a lot of I guess you could say instability or restructuring going on within your existing manufacturing.
Could you just talk a little bit about what key items you see that kind of determine success or issues within the implementation of this? Do you see this as a significant risk for 2012 or would you expect things to go relatively smoothly? Our expectation is for them to go relatively smoothly.
Having said that any system implementation is subject to learning things on the fly.
We've tested the system dramatically.
We've been working on it for over 2 years.
And what we know today we feel very comfortable and all the testing that we've done we feel good about where we're at.
It doesn't mean that there won't be hiccups.
But what we believe is that any hiccups that we might have will not come through and affect our customers and dealers given the inventory that we have.
And -- but the answer is the confidence is driven by the vast amount of testing that we've been doing.
Your next question comes from the line of Robin Farley from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Just kind of circling back to the gross margin issue and I knew you talked about you had lower guidance on October and kind of reiterated that lower guidance in November.
And then when you came below here you've mentioned FX -- you mentioned currency impacting $9 million instead of the $7.9 million.
I guess it doesn't look like that would be enough to have to account for the miss in gross margin unless raw materials' prices changed so much in the last month of the quarter.
But even that $9 million versus the $7.9 million if you could just give a little bit more color on what else may have been behind that and then I do have a follow-up question as well.
So as I had mentioned earlier the 2 things that missed our expectations were a little bit on mix.
We expected a slightly more favorable mix and slightly less on unfavorable raw materials.
Actually currency Robin for the quarter was favorable $3.9 million.
And certainly exiting the third quarter we saw our currency rates falling quite dramatically.
The euro continued to fall a bit but we saw some recovery in the real and the Australian dollar.
So currency was not an issue for us in the fourth quarter it was the raw materials.
And again raw materials given our shipments down we were expecting more of a plateauing in the fourth quarter.
And now we'll expect that plateauing in raw material costs in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> And I might have misspoken when I said FX I know it was a positive for the quarter but I guess the raw materials you're mentioning impacting $9 million instead of the $7.9 million and that's the delta I was talking about wouldn't really explain -- wouldn't be enough to explain the gross margin miss.
But I guess you're saying it's -- mix is the other piece of it.
Well it's not just the $1.1 million on raw materials because shipments were down from about I don't know 60-some thousand units to 50 000 units.
We would have expected raw materials to be down at the same rate level.
So what we saw was a continuing rate increase as things flow through the system on raw materials.
So it wasn't just the $7.9 million versus the $9 million.
It's the fact that we didn't ship in -- our shipments were much less in the fourth quarter we would expect that raw materials to be a little bit lower.
Research Division</strong> And my -- the follow-up question I have with your comment earlier about the 3% to 5% shipment growth in 2012 being more limited by -- it sounds like that's more limited by your if you have retail demand than by your production constraint.
Can you talk about being able to maybe go above that in the second half? So if that's more limited by your retail demand I wonder if you can comment on kind of I guess confirm that I guess and how does that tie into your expectation of U.S.
dealerships closing? I think at one point you had said 5% and I don't know if that was for 2012 or for sort of a 12-month forward from the fall.
Okay.
I did not say that the shipments was more driven by retail.
I said there's 3 things that we were watching closely and one of them was the macroeconomics.
We feel great about where we see retail sales in the U.S.
but certainly remain cautious as we look forward given the tentative nature of the overall economy in consumer confidence.
But we're pleased the consumer confidence is up.
We are more concerned about retail sales in Europe given the fact that they may already be in recession or may slip into recession there.
The temporary capacity constraints is holding our production down certainly in the first half of the year.
And then the other piece of it is that we intend to take inventories down and that would suggest that retail sales would be higher than our shipment estimate.
So again there is -- we've not weighted them in any different way except to say all 3 of them as we look forward provides a shipment guidance of 3% to 5%.
And we'll respond on the activities throughout the period.
The other piece that you had mentioned Robin is the dealership closings.
We do not expect this to have a big impact on our sales at all.
The overall strategy was to help improve dealer profitability.
We've been very successful there.
And we've seen a great rebound in dealer profits in 2011.
When we look at dealer closings during the year I believe we closed 22 dealerships or consolidated 22 dealerships in 2011.
I think the previous 2 years we had done about 60 in total.
So about 80 dealerships overall which represents probably about 9% of the dealer network from pre-recession levels.
Research Division</strong> And in 2012 your expectations for dealer closings? We don't have any expectations for dealer closings or providing anything in 2012.
It's not our main focus.
We feel very good about where the dealer network is today.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Katz from the MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about what you expect for both raw material costs in the year ahead if that's going to ease? And also on any trends you've seen in new versus used pricing? In what pricing? Research Division</strong> New versus used.
Sure.
Okay Jamie raw material costs.
Obviously we've seen a great runoff in raw material costs in fuel over the last year.
And most of the metals' complex seemed to kind of peak in April of this year but it didn't retrace.
It just kind of plateaued in April and as maybe a little bit better in the fourth quarter.
Now it takes anywhere from 3 to 6 months for that to flow through our inventory.
Where commodity prices are going to go in the future don't really know.
Right now our expectation is that raw materials will be flat versus year ago.
And again we would expect to see raw materials as on a rate-basis peak in the next quarter.
And we kind of thought they would peak this quarter and they're still flowing through at higher prices.
So year-over-year we would expect them to be in line with last year.
And secondly with regards to new and used pricing we look to add some through I believe November used sale -- actually used bike sales is up about 8.6% and total demand's up about 7.6%.
So we're still very pleased with the strong total demand for our product.
And in the fourth quarter we started to see a shift.
We're closing up the gap between new and used sales growth.
So we're starting to see used sales growth come down a little bit and certainly seeing new accelerate.
And that's what we've said would happen as we -- as the prices kind of equalized out in the marketplace.
Your next question comes the line of Gerrick Johnson from BMO Capital Markets.
I just wanted to clarify the dealer closings that 22 dealership number was that net or gross? And can you break that out between U.S.
and international please? The -- those are only in the U.S.
and those are net.
Those are the big dealerships that we consolidated out.
So we've always got a churn of dealerships that we're repositioning and replacing and so on and so forth.
So the net system was down by 22 dealerships this year.
Again international I don't even know what the number is.
We didn't have the same issue internationally.
There was some dealerships that came in and out.
What we did from a closing standpoint -- from an opening standpoint we were able to open 35 new international dealerships in our quest to open 100 to 150 dealerships.
And the vast majority of those are in emerging markets.
And we feel great about where our emerging market group is today.
Great very clear.
And on the recall charge you comfortable with $11.0 million reserve? And of the 300-and-somewhat thousand bikes covered do you have an estimate of how many have actually come in for service for the brake light switch repair? No.
I don't -- we don't -- I don't have an estimate what that percentage is.
When we look at the overall $11.8 million we feel very comfortable with it.
We've assumed a very high take rate a higher take rate than we typically would on recall just because of the size of it.
So we feel great about the reserve and making sure that we hit that reserve at $11.8 million.
But I don't have the actuals to this point Gerrick.
Your last question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up I apologize if you touched on this but the dividends that you paid from HDFS did you basically use that to fund your -- sorry the pension contribution? Well I don't know Felicia if -- that wasn't the intent.
Money is money.
So we did have a dividend paid from HDFS to the Motor company.
Last year we had one also.
It was $125 million.
And as we look at the amount of equity that we need to run HDFS on and to keep a conservative debt-to-equity we had more funding in HDFS than we needed.
So they dividend it back $225 million.
At the same time we saw our pension liability increase a fair amount.
So at the end of the third quarter our pension liability -- pension and post-retirement liability was about $370 million with falling discount rates which by the way helps our Financial Services business does not help our pension [ph] accounting.
And we saw the pension liabilities increase by a little over $200 million and that's what we funded in the first quarter.
They're completely unrelated but both necessary.
As there are no further questions at this time I turn the call back over for any closing remarks.
Thanks for your time everyone this morning and we appreciate your investment in Harley-Davidson.
The audio and visual support for today's call will be available at harley-davidson.com.
The audio can also be accessed until February 7 by calling (404) 537-3406 or (855) 859-2056 in the U.S.
The number is 36261875#.
If you have any other questions please contact Investor Relations at (414) 343-8002.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Alicia and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Amy Giuffre Director of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you Beth and welcome to Harley-Davidson's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
The audio for today's call is being webcast live on www.harley-davidson.com.
The supporting [Audio Gap] can be accessed by clicking on Company Investor Relations then Events and Presentations.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks that could cause actual results to be materially different.
Those risks include among others matters we have noted in our latest earnings release and filings with the SEC.
Harley-Davidson disclaims any obligation to update information in this call.
This morning you'll hear from Harley-Davidson's CEO Keith Wandell; CFO John Olin; and President of Harley-Davidson Financial Services Larry Hund.
Then we'll open the call -- and then we'll open the call for your questions so let's get started.
Keith? Thank you Amy and good morning and thanks to everyone for joining us on today's call.
As we noted in the press release we're pleased by the strong start to the year and I want to begin with a thanks to all of our employees our dealers and our suppliers.
They're really the frontline in our progress and they continue to do a great job at bringing the Harley-Davidson experience to our customers throughout the world.
When I came to Harley-Davidson 3 years ago I knew that the company had tremendous untapped potential and incredible opportunities and that's never been more true than today.
It's through our strategy of transformation that we believe we will exceed the ever-increasing expectations of our customers we will create opportunities for growth and we will build a sustainable business for the future.
We continue to see the evidence of our progress in the numbers that we reported today.
We believe the first quarter retail results and indeed the trend of the past several quarters reflect the outstanding appeal of our products and the efforts of our employees and the more than 1 400 dealers in 79 countries around the world along with the improving macroeconomic conditions in the U.S.
Over the past few years we have continued to bring out great products that are hitting the mark with our customers.
The latest of these are the Seventy-Two and the Softail Slim both of which were introduced just a couple of months ago.
The Seventy-Two is inspired by the early chopper era taking its cues from the custom culture that still exists today along Whittier Boulevard in East LA also known as Route 72.
No one but Harley-Davidson could do a factory custom motorcycle like the Seventy-Two with its unique big metal flake paint which requires a complex multistep paint process.
Similarly the Softail Slim returns the Softail motorcycle to its essential elements.
With a low seat height it comfortably fits a wide range of riders.
And as with all of our motorcycles customers can achieve a truly personalized fit through a wide variety of accessories which is one of our competitive advantages.
The Seventy-Two and the Softail Slim are just the latest new motorcycles that are reaching new customers.
The Forty-Eight which we introduced in early 2010 made the list of the top 10 sellers in Europe last year and that is a first for Harley-Davidson.
The SuperLow which we introduced in July of 2010 was recently cited by Power Sports Business as the #1 selling cruiser to women.
Earlier this month Moto-plismo [ph] which is a leading motorcycle publication in Brazil Latin America and Europe named the Night Rod Special its Moto de Oro the top award in the custom category.
These examples all point to the bigger story of Harley-Davidson's growing market leadership in the U.S.
and growing strength in the international markets.
It's all part of our strategy to increase the relevance of our motorcycles to more riders and it's working.
We now have the 2011 outreach demographics sales data for the U.S.
And once again Harley-Davidson is the leader in on-road motorcycle registrations in all of our target demographic segments.
We are the leader in sales to young adults women diverse customers as well as our core customers and not just in the heavyweight segment.
Among young adults aged 18 to 34 we captured the market leadership position in all displacements of on-road bikes in 2008 and expanded this leadership in the 2009 to 2011 timeframe.
We are also #1 across all displacements among women Hispanic and African-American riders.
And so if we look at just the heavyweight segment in 2011 there's 4 points I'd like to make: number one nearly half of all heavyweight motorcycles sold to young adults were Harley-Davidson's; number two nearly 2/3 of heavyweight motorcycles sold to women were Harley's; number three we also sold more than half of all of our heavyweight motorcycles sold to African-American customers; and number four nearly 6 in 10 heavyweight motorcycles sold to Hispanic riders.
We also maintained our long-running leadership among U.S.
core customers those being Caucasian men over the age of 34 selling more than 6 in 10 motorcycles in the heavyweight category.
And when it comes to new customers more than 1/3 of our U.S.
dealers' new motorcycle sales in 2011 were to customers who were new to the Harley-Davidson brand customers either buying their first motorcycle or those who previously owned a competitive bike.
Turning to the markets outside the U.S.
In the 15 country European market more than 2/3 of those who bought a new Harley-Davidson motorcycle in 2011 were first-time Harley buyers.
And we gained a point of heavyweight market share strengthening our #2 position in this highly competitive market.
In the Latin American region for the first quarter of 2012 retail gains were led by Brazil where we are starting to see the results of our investments in that market all to better focus on delivering a great customer experience.
Last month I and several of the team we were in Manaus Brazil for the dedication of our relocated CKD assembly operations and then attended the grand opening of a new dealership in São Paulo.
There were more than 1 000 people at the dealership party and I'll tell you the buzz and the enthusiasm were just simply incredible.
We continue to make gains in the Asia-Pacific region as well with first quarter new Harley-Davidson motorcycle sales up more than 25% from the year-ago period.
And we're very pleased to see double-digit growth in Japan as they recover from last year's tragic events.
We also saw a very strong growth in Asia-Pacific's emerging markets including both India and China where retail sales doubled in each of those areas during the quarter compared to last year.
So all in all it's great to see our strategy come to life.
In spite of all the good stuff I just spoke about the most encouraging part is that I believe the best is yet to come.
We believe there are many growth opportunities.
In international markets we believe we have barely half the potential.
In the U.S.
while we are proud of our market share gains in recent years we believe there's a lot of room yet to run on the industry's road to the recovery.
Industry volumes last year were about half of their pre-recession peak and the industry is still working through the excess of used bikes.
Harley-Davidson is growing outreach faster than core and we expect to further broaden the reach of our products in markets everywhere through these remarkable new motorcycles.
When I look at all the exciting products that are in the development pipeline seeing the results of our changes in the manufacturing and look at all the great things to come through our focus on retail excellence I believe the opportunities for this company and this brand are tremendous.
And all of us at Harley are working harder than ever to realize these opportunities.
So thank you again for being on the call.
Thanks for your continued interest in Harley-Davidson.
And now let me turn it over to John Olin.
Thanks Keith and good morning everyone.
I'll review the financial results for the first quarter starting on Slide 11.
During the quarter Harley-Davidson Inc.
consolidated revenue was up 16.7% behind the 19.4% increase in shipments of Harley-Davidson motorcycles.
Our first quarter income from continuing operations improved to $172 million an increase of $52.8 million.
Similarly diluted earnings per share rose to $0.74 per share up from $0.51 a share in the year-ago quarter a 45.1% increase.
Operating income from the motorcycle business was $208.1 million up $83 million or 66.4% compared to last year's first quarter.
The strong increase in the motorcycle business was driven by increased motorcycle shipments higher gross margin and favorable restructuring spending as compared to last year partially offset by higher SG&amp;A.
Operating income at Harley-Davidson Financial Services was strong during the quarter but down slightly compared to last year's first quarter when HDFS's results were favorably impacted by a retail credit loss release of $12.7 million.
We're off to a great start this year delivering strong results as we make progress against our growth strategies and the transformation of our business.
Now let's take a look at retail sales on Slide 12.
Overall worldwide retail sales of new Harley -- of new motorcycles were up over 20% in the first quarter.
This represents 11 consecutive quarters of largely improving results as we continue to invest in sustainable growth opportunities around the world.
The growth trend in retail sales reflects the strong global brand and product appeal as well as the worldwide dealer efforts Keith just mentioned.
Moving on to Slide 13.
Retail sales in the U.S.
exceeded our expectations.
During the quarter sales in the U.S.
were up 25.5% supported by momentum from the strong affinity for the Harley-Davidson brand appealing 2012 motorcycles and improving macroeconomic conditions.
Also we believe the unusually mild weather in the first quarter including the warmest March in 50 years encouraged early sales to some customers who may have otherwise purchased later in the spring season.
U.S.
market share strengthened by 4 percentage points to 57.4% in the first quarter versus prior year.
As a result of stronger-than-expected first quarter 2012 retail sales U.S.
retail inventory at the end of the first quarter was down approximately 4 400 units compared to last year.
U.S.
retail inventory was at its lowest level in many years and we expect retail inventory will remain tight over the next couple of quarters.
On a sequential basis retail inventory during the quarter was up about 1 500 units from the end of last year as dealers prepared for spring.
On Slide 14 you'll see retail sales in international markets for the quarter grew 11.2% driven by strong growth in Asia-Pacific and Latin America regions.
During the first quarter Latin America was up 85% driven by strong performance in Brazil as the dealer network continues to gain momentum compared to last year's first quarter when we were starting the process of building a new dealer network.
Retail sales in Mexico were also strong during the quarter.
Retail sales in Asia-Pacific region were up 25.4% driven by strong growth across the entire region.
Canada was up 1.5% in the quarter and the EMEA region was down 1.1% for the quarter compared to 2011.
We saw year-over-year growth in some major European countries including Germany France and Switzerland and emerging markets.
But that growth was offset by declines in southern Europe and the U.K.
Despite challenging retail conditions in Europe market share continued to strengthen and through February  was 13.5% up 1.4 percentage points.
As we have discussed international expansion is one of our core areas of investment in future growth.
It's our objective to open 100 to 150 new international dealerships between 2009 in 2014.
Since 2009 67 incremental international dealerships have been opened with roughly 2/3 in emerging markets.
On Slide 15 you'll see wholesale motorcycle shipments in the quarter were up 19.4% compared to last year and 1 300 units above the high end of our expected shipment guidance range as a result of higher-than-expected retail sales.
The year-over-year increase in shipments was also aided by 6 additional days included in this year's Q1 fiscal quarter versus last year's.
The fourth quarter of this year will include 5 fewer days than last year's.
This adjustment is required every several years to sync up our fiscal calendar with the regular calendar.
During the first quarter Touring as a percent of total shipments was up versus prior year and all categories were within their historical mix ranges.
As of the end of the quarter we continue to hold a higher-than-normal level of motorcycles in our company inventory to support shipments during the ERP implementation.
On Slide 16 you'll see revenue for the Motorcycle and Related Products segment was up 19.8% in the first quarter behind strong growth from all our businesses.
Motorcycle revenue was up 19.5% behind a 19.4% increase in shipments during the first quarter.
Parts and Accessories sales were up 21.1% and General Merchandise was 19.2% in the quarter driven by improved product availability strong international sales and improved worldwide retail motorcycle sales.
On Slide 17 we have laid out the expected restructuring activities along with the impact of resulting temporary inefficiencies.
This slide is intended to provide a clear view of our restructuring activities the cadence and the impact as we head into the final innings of the restructuring plan.
As we have discussed we're in the process of exiting our Australian wheel manufacturing operation.
We are also implementing our new 7-year labor agreement and continuous improvement system at Kansas City and in Wisconsin.
Also during the quarter we completed the consolidation of our General Merchandise and parts and accessories distribution with a third party logistics partner.
During the last call we stated that we expected to launch our ERP implementation at York in the second quarter.
We also stated that a quality launch was our top priority and that we would not launch unless we were absolutely ready.
During our extensive systems test we uncovered opportunities to further improve the design of the system and further reduce the expected downtime during launch.
As a result of these learnings we have decided to adjust the timing of the launch and now plan to launch the system in early July.
While we are anxious to complete the implementation the new learnings and the adjusted timing provide some benefits.
First the July launch allows us to continue to produce motorcycles without the ERP production disruption during the height of the spring selling season.
This is particularly attractive given the very strong first quarter retail sales.
Second the July launch is expected to slightly reduce production downtime and given the improved solution has increased our confidence in a smooth implementation with less risk.
And finally the July implementation allows us to sync up the ERP systems launch with the start of the 2013 model year motorcycle production which provides for a more efficient use of the normal transition period to the new model year.
As a result of the adjusted timing of the ERP we will reallocate approximately $10 million of total expected capital to support restructuring.
However this does not change our full-year restructuring timing cost or savings expectations.
We experienced approximately $7 million in temporary inefficiencies during the quarter and continue to expect temporary inefficiencies in 2012 to be generally in line with 2011 which were $32 million.
The expected ranges for the remaining quarters are noted on the slide.
Year-over-year production in the third quarter will now be negatively impacted by the ERP implementation downtime.
We also expect production to be lower in Q4 than prior year due to our ability to flex production in York in the first half of 2013.
Turning to restructuring costs and savings on Slide 18.
We experienced $11.5 million in restructuring expenses during the quarter and continue to expect to spend $50 million to $60 million for the full-year.
We also continue to expect total ongoing annual savings of between $315 million and $335 million upon completion of our restructuring activities.
On Slide 19 you'll see gross margin in the quarter was 35.9% which was 2.8 percentage points higher than last year.
Manufacturing benefited from restructuring savings and incremental margin on higher production and foreign exchange benefited gross margin by $11 million driven by favorable hedge positions.
Raw materials were negatively impacted by rising fuel and a slight increase in steel costs.
On Slide 20 operating margin as a percent of revenue for the first quarter was 16.3% up 4.5 percentage points compared to last year's first quarter.
Operating margin was favorably impacted by higher gross margin and favorable restructuring partially offset by higher SG&amp;A.
SG&amp;A was up roughly $33 million or 16.3% higher during the quarter compared to the same period last year.
This increase was primarily driven by 6 extra days included in this year's first quarter compared to last year's fiscal calendar.
Conversely the fourth quarter of this year will have 5 fewer days compared to last year's fourth quarter and therefore we expect Q4 SG&amp;A to be favorable compared to last year.
This quarter's SG&amp;A increase was also a result of investment in our growth initiatives and timing of spend within the year.
As a percent of revenue SG&amp;A was 18.6% versus 19.2% in the same quarter last year.
We continue to expect SG&amp;A spending will increase on a year-over-year basis as we invest in growth but will decrease as a percent of revenue through 2014.
Now moving onto our Financial Services segment on Slide 21.
HDFS operating profit decreased $0.5 million or 0.8% compared to last year's first quarter.
The key drivers of the first quarter results were net interest was up $1.3 million due to favorable borrowing costs partially offset by lower revenues as our book of retail loans continues to shrink reflecting lower motorcycle sales during the downturn.
Second the provision for retail credit losses was $6.6 million higher in the first quarter of 2012 versus the first quarter of 2011 primarily due to a $12.7 million 2011 credit loss reserve release versus a $2 million 2012 release partially offset by lower credit losses.
And finally the provision for wholesale credit losses was $1.9 million lower in the first quarter of 2012 and operating expenses were $1.7 million lower than the same period last year.
We're very pleased with the performance of the business and believe HDFS provides a competitive advantage for sales of Harley-Davidson motorcycles and related products.
Now Larry provide more detail on HDFS' operations on Slide 22.
Larry? Thanks John and good morning.
During the first quarter HDFS retail motorcycle loan originations increased 22.1% or $100 million compared to the same period last year.
The increase was driven by higher new motorcycle loan originations partially offset by a 0.4 percentage point decrease in retail market share of new Harley-Davidson motorcycle financing.
Additionally used motorcycle loan originations increased during the quarter.
Total finance receivables outstanding decreased 3% compared to a year ago as runoff of older retail loans exceeded new originations.
HDFS has focused on prudently increasing credit application approval rates for near prime and subprime customers over the last several quarters.
The objective is to use our analytics from 20 years of motorcycle lending to approve more credit applications in well-structured loans.
Our goal is to have a portfolio that continues to perform well over time and delivers an appropriate return on equity.
We are very pleased with the improved retail delinquency rate and retail credit losses compared to last year which you will see on Slide 23.
The 30-day delinquency rate for retail motorcycle loans at the end of the first quarter 2012 was 2.56% or 112 basis points better than the same date last year.
Annualized retail credit losses improved by 58 basis points to 1% for the first quarter compared to last year primarily driven by our continued strong underwriting collection and loss mitigation efforts as well as improving consumer credit behavior and macroeconomic conditions in the U.S.
While we [Audio Gap] disciplined in how we manage the loan portfolio and the overall business we have no assurance that current consumer behavior will continue.
At some point shifting consumer behavior may temper the strong credit performance we have experienced.
We are pleased with the continued progress at HDFS.
We remain focused on enabling sales of Harley-Davidson motorcycles while providing an attractive return to Harley-Davidson Inc.
Now I'll turn it back to John.
Thanks Larry.
Now let's take a look at cash and liquidity on Slide 24.
You will see at the end of the quarter we had $1.4 billion of cash and marketable securities.
During the quarter HDFS completed a $400 million medium-term note issuance at a rate of 2.7% and we contributed $200 million to our qualified pension plans.
Also as we noted on the last call HDFS paid a $225 million dividend to Harley-Davidson Inc.
In addition HDFS had $1.1 billion of available liquidity through bank credit and conduit facilities.
We currently have and intend to continue to maintain a minimum of 12 months of projected liquidity these in cash and/or credit facilities.
During the first quarter we increased the quarterly dividend of $0.125 a share to $0.155 a share a 24% increase.
In addition we repurchased approximately 254 000 shares of Harley-Davidson stock for $11.3 million during the quarter.
Our first quarter repurchase activity was lower than we had planned.
Due to uncertainty around the timing of our ERP launch we believe that it was prudent to suspend share repurchase activity until we determine the new launch timing and communicated the plan to all stakeholders.
We anticipate reinitiating share repurchase activity during the second quarter.
As we have stated returning value to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases is a top priority.
We will continue to evaluate opportunities to enhance value for our shareholders.
Now I'll review the remaining HDFS Inc.
Financials on Slide 25.
I would like to highlight one item on this slide.
With regards to continuing operations the company used operating cash of $74 million during the first quarter compared to $105 million used in 2011.
The Motorcycle business generated operating cash of $21 million during the first quarter even after a $200 million contribution to our pension plans.
On Slide 26 you'll see that for 2012 we now expect Harley-Davidson motorcycle shipments to be between 245 000 and 250 000 motorcycles on a worldwide basis up 5% to 7% from 2011 compared to prior guidance of up 3% to 5%.
Our revised full year 2012 shipment estimate takes into account slightly improved capacity at York and increased production at Kansas City.
We continue to be committed to aggressively managing supply of new motorcycles in line with demand.
In the U.S.
we expect our dealers to retail more units than we ship in 2012 thereby lowering year end retail inventories in the U.S.
given our flexible manufacturing capability which we expect will be online in the first half of next year.
During the second quarter we expect to ship between 79 000 and 84 000 units.
In anticipation of the planned ERP launch and our 2013 model year cut over in July we will significantly draw down company-owned inventory in the second quarter.
In fact production will actually be slightly lower in Q2 than in Q1 due to fewer production days.
We continue to expect full-year 2012 gross margin will be between 34 3/4% to 35 3/4% percent.
We expect gross margin will be positively impacted by incremental restructuring savings increased productivity from everyday continuous improvement and the 2012 model year pricing announced in July of 2011.
We believe that raw materials surcharge and temporary inefficiencies from our restructuring activities will be comparable to 2011 levels.
We expect currency to be a headwind in 2012 and now expected product mix will be slightly unfavorable for the full-year.
Finally we expect capital expenditures to be between $190 million and $210 million which now includes approximately $35 million of capital related to restructuring.
As we look back on the first quarter of 2012 we are very pleased to deliver strong results and progress on many fronts.
Worldwide retail sales were extremely strong driven by sales in the U.S.
and regained market share in key markets.
An increasing number of diverse customers are being drawn to Harley-Davidson [Audio Gap].
We increased our 2012 shipment guidance and our quarterly dividend was increased by 24% while we continue to repurchase shares.
We continue to make progress toward our transformation to a world-class manufacturing and product development and the entire organization has sharpened its focus on continuous improvement across all areas of our business.
We remain focused on executing against our strategies as we complete the final activities in our manufacturing restructuring.
We continue to transform our organization and grow our business while delivering strong margins strong returns and value to our shareholders.
Thank you for your continued confidence and investment in Harley-Davidson.
And now let's open the call up to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Ed Aaron from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> You mentioned in your prepared remarks that the industry is still working off used inventory and I was hoping you could maybe just give us some color on where you are with your used situation versus your competitors.
Because it does seem like your used inventory has really dried up and I'm wondering if you having a cleaner inventory mix out there might have driven some of the market share gain in the quarter.
So I was hoping you could also maybe comment on how your used growth compares to your new bike growth for Q1.
When we look at Harley-Davidson in particular in the quarter we saw basically pricing flat or stable versus prior year and we also saw that in the fourth quarter.
So we saw a lot of gains prior to that probably 4 or 5 straight quarters and a much more flat performance in the fourth quarter and the first quarter here.
When we look at overall used bike sales or kind of the growth between used and new we did see -- would look to be an inflection point in the fourth quarter of last year where we saw actually new start to exceed the growth of used.
And in the fourth quarter new was up about 12% and used was up by just shy of 6%.
Last year total demand for new and used was up 81.1%.
And as we look in the first 2 months of this year our data is on a month lag so through February total demand for Harley-Davidson motorcycles was up 22.5%.
With new slightly exceeding the used growth rate so we're pretty pleased with that and the used to new ratio was flat on a year-over-year basis.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great that's helpful.
And then just one quick follow-up and then I'll pass it on.
But the change in the timing of the ERP roll out did that affect how many bikes you kind of prebuilt in the first quarter versus what you might have expected to prebuild previously? Not the changing of the ERP.
In the first quarter let's kind of take a step back in the conference call.
We talked about we entered the quarter with 7 000 excess units.
And at that time we had intended to build our company-owned inventory in anticipation of the ERP launch and we also expected to build retail inventories a little bit.
Moving the ERP launch did not have any impact but as we dialed forward 3 months what we did see is that we were able to maintain the excess inventory that we had built in the fourth quarter of 2011.
We still have approximately 7 000 units of excess inventory.
However our company inventory fell by 4 400 units but the movement of the ERP did not affect that.
What it does affect is our ability to continue to produce throughout the second quarter in the height of the selling season so as we looked at inventories while they're down coming into it we have the excess inventory that we would expect to release in the quarter and feel that pretty much for the second quarter we'll be at year ago inventory levels.
And your next question comes from the line of Sharon Zackfia from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple of questions on cadence.
I think John you mentioned that shipments would be down in the fourth quarter year-over-year as you prepare for surge capacity in 2013.
So does that still imply that you expect shipments to be positive in the third quarter with ERP? And then just secondarily on gross margin should we assume peak gross margins then in the second quarter as well given the shipments to cadence in the second quarter? Okay Sharon.
So kind of let's talk about the cadence driven by the ERP move.
So we had first anticipated that production would fall in the second quarter as we implemented the ERP system.
Now we'll move that to July and so we would expect production to kind of continue throughout the second quarter.
But that production will be down a little bit in the second quarter versus the first quarter.
What we've done now is push that kind of the production out the production reduction to July.
And in doing that we're also syncing it up with our model year 2013 product.
So when we look at the second quarter we will have very healthy shipments into the trade.
We're looking to ship in 79 000 to 84 000 units which well exceeds our year ago second quarter which was 64 000 and a lot of that is coming from inventory.
So as we proceed through the second quarter which we're starting out at very low levels of inventory we'll ship in the vast majority of the excess 7 000 units and we'll ship out most all of the remaining 2012 product prior to July.
The reason being is that we have the new model year coming right behind ERP launch so what we want to do is get that out into the trade.
Now the nice thing about moving the ERP system back is this is a time when dealers are typically used to having inventories that run low in anticipation of the new model year.
So we've got -- we have pretty strong production in the first quarter will be slightly down in the second quarter it will be down in the third quarter and the fourth quarter down in the third quarter because of the ERP launch and in the fourth quarter because of the ability to surge up capacity at York in the first half of 2013.
Research Division</strong> And then on gross margins? Your question on gross margin was we would expect gross margin to be better in the second quarter than the third quarter because of the shift in the production.
When you look quarter-over-quarter production is down slightly from first quarter to second quarter so gross margin would probably be pretty much in line with what we saw in the first quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Kennison from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> John what's the motivation to further de-stock your dealers? Is it to drive up residual values of your used bikes and if so are you seeing the trade-in customer come back now that his bike is worth a little bit more? Craig we are not motivated to further de-stock the retail trade.
It certainly went down in the second quarter because of the very high retail sales in the first quarter and actually that's why we shipped a little bit over our first quarter guidance.
That volume came from the fact that we're expecting to put more in inventory in anticipation of the ERP.
We shipped that instead.
As we said last year we felt that as we looked at the end of the quarters 1 2 and 3 inventories were lower than we would like on an ongoing basis and in the first quarter we stated we like to increase inventories a bit.
That was just the strong retail sales that brought retail inventories down.
We do expect to have inventories tight but it is not our expectation to further de-stock the trade in the United States.
Research Division</strong> So just to be clear on a full-year basis you think retail and wholesale in the U.S.
will be close to 1-1? No.
We will retail more than we ship.
But that will happen in the fourth quarter as we get ready for the surge and our capability for flexible manufacturing in the first half of next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then just on the international side if I may you're at 67 dealers your plan was 100 to 150 over a period of time.
How many more do you think you can do in 2012? And do you ultimately think you'll be closer to that 100 or that 150 number? Craig at this point we're just providing guidance that will be between about 100-150.
We're right on plan with what we set up a couple of years ago.
And we're putting up dealers every quarter but we feel great about where we're at.
And your next question comes from the line of Tim Conder from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> First of all John any color you can give us on the level of overtime that you've worked in the first quarter? And then would that -- I would anticipate that that would continue in the second quarter versus what you would view as a normalized rate? We were working overtime in the first quarter.
What I would characterize it was would be not full out but we were working a fair amount of overtime.
We don't believe that that's sustainable for long periods of times.
We will expect to work a little bit of overtime in the second quarter as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Any quantification on that that you can give us John just a sort of on an ongoing basis to look at it? What -- was it kind of more of a normal rate or how much it cost you so to speak? No.
Again it was a moderate amount of overtime and we don't expect to do that on an ongoing basis but given the tight inventories we're able to work it.
Beyond that not really prepared to give much more Tim.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and then back to this growing gap or below where you have the -- where you would desire the U.S.
channel inventories.
As you alluded to earlier you entered 2011 saying hey we're a little bit below our ideal levels.
We want to have shipments exceed retail on '11.
Well that didn't happen because of the stronger retail.
The same thing you wanted to do this year as you've already said well that's not going to happen now given the strength of retail.
Any quantification or guidance as to where -- are you 5 000 units or so under where you ideally would like to be whatever the base level is in the U.S.
channel? Well I think overall we're going to continue to aggressively manage supply in line with demand.
So a year ago we felt we were a little bit light and we wanted to put some more in.
And I would say a moderate amount.
We're going to continue to be very prudent in what we put in the trade.
But last year it was low.
Now in the first quarter we're 4 400 lower than we were at that point.
So we would expect a fair amount to be put in.
I did not say that we felt we would be done on the year.
I did say that we would be tight for the remainder of the year.
When we look at the second quarter which is the height of our selling season we do have the 7 000 excess inventory.
We would expect to put it into the trade in the second quarter.
And I would expect most of the second quarter to be in line with year ago inventories and as we end the quarter the second quarter I would expect retail inventories to be higher as we ship out everything and the cadence of the timing of our model year launch is pushed back a couple of month or a couple of weeks this year.
So I think we'll end the second quarter with higher inventories and that will ready us for the ERP launch and the model year switch over.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and so being down retailing more than shipped that was within a fourth quarter comment? Yes on a full-year basis because of the inventory the retail inventories that we'll take down in the fourth quarter we would expect to have our dealers retail more than we ship.
That is in the fourth quarter where we don't have the pressure on sales and we'll have the fire power coming out of York given our new search capability to make the units closer to customer demand.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and then lastly any type of pickup rate once you get everything implemented here? What type pick up rate that you could see on incremental sales on a go-forward basis once we see everything implemented here say by the end of '12? Pickup rate to the operating margin gross margin however you want to characterize it.
Well look on the -- the Slide 12 I believe is we would expect additional restructuring savings coming in.
We're expecting restructuring savings of $58 million to $78 million incremental this year and then another $20-or so million next year.
So we would expect those savings to come in according to plan as well as our spending on restructuring which is $50 million to $60 million this year dropping off in 2013.
So that should both widen gross margins as well as operating margins.
And your next question comes from the line of Rod Lache from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering just a couple of questions still on the inventory and production and sales.
At what point do you believe inventories would actually start to constrain sales or market share? And then on the production you've produced above the high end of your expected range this quarter.
Can you just kind of give us what some of the gating factors would be that would allow you to get more units out over the next couple of quarters? Is there potential to get more out if the ERP implementation goes as planned? And just lastly on the production you've mentioned before that you won't have full flex capacity throughout the network until 2014.
Can you give us a sense of where your network's capacity will be at in 2013? Can you repeat the first question? Research Division</strong> Well the first question was just when does the inventory situation start to constrain sales? Are you getting close to that point or are you still far away from it? Rod we are -- the inventories are tight and customers coming in at this time may have to wait for a particular color or for a particular model our dealers are trading out there.
We do not think that it's costing us lost sales but in some cases it's delaying the sale to our customers something that we don't want on an ongoing basis but that's where it's at.
So when you say constrained sales I don't think that we're at that point.
There is inventory in the system and the dealers are working diligently to get the customer the model and the color that they want.
So overall I don't think that we're in that area but the customers are having to wait and we don't think that they're switching brands because of that wait.
And again we're working as diligently as we can to get more production and to meet that demand which leads me to your second question is in terms of production.
We were able to exceed the guidance for the quarter but that did not come necessarily from a lot of production more production than we expected.
We eked out a little bit more in York but we're talking hundreds of units.
Most of that came from -- we were expecting to build an excess and put it in inventory in anticipation of the ERP launch and instead we shipped that out.
So production is very tight.
If the ERP implementation goes better than expectation we could see a little bit of the capacity freed up at that time.
And then the next opportunity for production coming out of York is not until late in the fourth quarter.
We do have capacity at Kansas City and as we raised our overall shipment guidance from 3% to 5% to 5% to 7% the vast majority of that additional volume is coming out of Kansas City.
So we are very constrained at York until the fourth quarter of this year.
Research Division</strong> And what's the trajectory of your capacity growth? We've -- you've talked about getting to your historical peak if you look out to 2014 but is it sort of the midpoint between that and where you are this year is what you would expect to be at for 2013? Well in terms of capacity in 2013 the constraint is at York.
And in the first half we'll be able to flex production so we will be able to meet the demand of what we have in sales in 2013 through the ability to flex our production at York.
We're not concerned about production or capacity in 2013.
Research Division</strong> So you -- there isn't really the limitation in 2013? You're going to be at your full flex capacity in that timeframe? Well we are looking to surge at York only.
We still have the other plants to do it.
But right now capacity there's plenty of capacity at Kansas City.
So again we will have the capacity to meet the needs of 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just last 2 things are you still expecting this decline in HDFS.
You had a $48 million decline in this releases expected or are those expectations changing now given what you see happening in losses? And have you done any -- you're sort of modeling about just the overall weather impact maybe just by looking at the warmer states where whether is less of a factor? Rod this is Larry.
Let me take the HDFS question.
I would say we had a as John talked about a modest decrease in reserves here in the first quarter compared to last year.
We have a very disciplined process we go through every quarter and we'll continue to evaluate that.
Obviously I think as we stated previously we expect any reserve reductions this year to be significantly lower than the nearly $40 million that we realized last year.
This is Amy.
[Operator Instructions].
And your next question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just getting another question on your flex capacity but more from an inventory perspective.
As we think about your getting to that point where you can flex your capacity at York just wondering on a going forward basis how we should think about inventory levels.
Obviously we can't look at history to help us model this so I was just wondering if you could give us any color because your manufacturing is going to be very different now.
Yes as far as overall inventory levels it doesn't affect really company inventory too much.
But what it does affect is really trade inventory levels in the fourth quarter.
So historically Felicia we would start building in October on a level basis and a trajectory and what we would do is put that inventory in the trade and our dealers would hold it until it was alleviated in the springtime.
Now what we'll be able to do is to bring those levels down and produce when the customer wants it.
And we'll be able to start surging in the beginning of the next model year.
And so we'll just produce closer to demand.
So the biggest change in terms of retail inventory is less inventory in the field in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay yes that was specifically what I was asking.
And so I mean should we think about it as having just a slight cushion built upon what we would estimate for your production? Or is it as someone said before more one-to-one? We're going to ease into this capability so we would expect the inventories to come down a little bit in the fourth quarter not anything huge and we'll continue to work on it.
We won't be fully capable until 2014 across all of our plants.
But we would expect to step down inventory in the fourth quarter and produce closer to sales in the first half.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a different question than what's been asked so far.
You've been getting market share.
It's been very nice and very impressive.
Just give if you're seeing anything from your competitors that might skew the sustainability of these market share gains? Well I don't think we would expect to hold on to a four-point game for the entire year.
We're very pleased in what we see.
We know that the brand appeal is very strong.
We also know that the model year 2012 product is being very well received and the 103 engine is certainly working to close that value gap between new and used.
So we're going to continue to work on our side of it and develop great products and the market shall take care of itself.
And your next question comes from the line of Gerrick Johnson from BMO Capital Markets.
Latin America other Asia very big numbers there.
Can you discuss maybe in a little bit more granularity the number of dealers that you have in those geographies now compared to say a year ago? And also if you expect this kind of growth to continue or sort of moderate through the year? Well in terms of -- again we're very pleased with what we're seeing in Asia Pacific up 25% versus down on a year ago period Japan is popping back after obviously the tragic events there.
And then our growth in emerging markets India and China were up over double.
When we look at the overall dealership the incremental dealerships Gerrick we put in probably 30 dealers last year on a year-over-year basis.
2/3 of them are in emerging markets so they are in places like China and India Indonesia and some in Latin America.
Those are not included the ones in Brazil because those were replacement dealerships.
So they are ending up in those areas they're driving great growth our emerging growth markets -- or emerging growth markets are growing at a much faster rate than the rest of Europe easy for me to say so and they are partially driven by the incremental dealerships.
And your next question comes from the line of Patrick Archambault from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted one clarification in terms of the decision to move the York the SAP implementation at York.
I mean the 3 reasons you outlined seem highly logical.
Was it just kind of opportunistic to do it at a better time? Or were there any other issues where you thought that maybe the preparedness wasn't where you needed it to be to do it in Q2 that also led to that decision? And then I guess just on the back of that in terms of Q3 can you help us think a little bit about how -- I mean you've said something already on it but I think you were talking about one month that was going to be down 40% at York previously at the peak of the implementation is that still the kind of production cadence we should be thinking about for Q3 now? Great Patrick.
With regards to the ERP launch no it was driven by the testing that we were doing.
We do all kinds of tests and one of the tests that we do is the shop floor test.
And basically what we do is disconnect all the old systems put the new system in and they are able to test that system along with the operational processes.
And what we discovered is that in the parts and handling area we had basically more complexity than we needed.
And that complexity didn't come with the commensurate benefit.
So as we said before we are not launching this thing until absolutely ready.
So we stepped back and took the time to change a few things in the design which will take complexity out and therefore de-risk it a little bit.
And given that we've pushed it back and then we talked about the 3 or so benefits that are associated with that one being more confidence in our launch and less time to ramp it up.
So we will reach that a little bit more on production coming out.
And that leads to your next question is in the third quarter it's still in the 40% range.
I mean we're hoping to get a little bit more capacity out because we've got an improved solution but we are still in the range of 40% of one month's production being down because of the ERP implementation.
And your next question comes from the line of James Hardiman from Longbow Research.
My question is surrounding the guidance.
I think the similar question was asked coming out of the fourth quarter when 245 000 units was the high end of your guidance and the question was asked to the extent that you need to go above that would you be able to -- does that represent the upper ceiling or could you get beyond that.
And the answer at that time was that maybe come the fourth quarter once things are behind us you could get above that 245 000.
Fast forward to today the upper end is 250 000 and at the same time you've pushed back the SAP implementation.
But ultimately the same question if retail is such that you're exceedingly low in terms of retail level inventories in the fourth quarter is there still an opportunity to do some catch-up and is there still potentially some upside to that 250 based on how retail trends play out? Yes so let's talk about getting to the 250 000.
So we boosted couple of percentage points of about 5 000 units.
The vast majority of that is coming from Kansas City products.
And we couldn't be more thrilled that the demand for those products which are largely directed at outreach customers are doing very well and so we got strong demand.
So we are taking the volume up but the vast majority of it is coming from Kansas City.
As I said we're eking out a little bit more production out of York.
We do have more capacity in DC.
So that's not an issue.
And when we looked at York we are running very tight and we'll continue to do so into the fourth quarter.
However in the fourth quarter we do have some down days planned that we could run and we could generate capacity in the fourth quarter.
The question at that time is really looking at the overall trade because we'll have the capacity -- the capability to flex our production up even closer to when of those units are going to want to be consumed in the spring given our surge capability at York and we'll evaluate that at that time.
And your next question comes from the line of Greg Badishkanian from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just in terms of I mean the retail was so strong in the first quarter.
I know you pulled forward some demand but I'm guessing that there's still some strength underlying fundamental strength.
Any way to kind of break that out and quantify that at all? Well we think it's clearly an extension of what we've been seeing on the improving retail sales trends.
And it was largely driven by incredible feel for the brand.
Again our share was up we're up 25.5% in the U.S.
and the industry was up 17.5% that means all of our competition was up just over 8%.
So a lot of it it's been driven by again a strong brand.
We talked about the new model year the 103 engine is pulling a lot and then the improving underlying macroeconomic trends in the U.S.
We do believe that some of it to a lesser extent was driven by the very favorable weather conditions and spring started a little bit early.
We've done the analysis of looking at northern states versus southern states and we do see a slight improvement in growth rate in the northern states.
I don't think it's anything huge but there is a weather effect that we saw in the first quarter.
And so we would expect retail sales to moderate a little bit as we move into the spring selling season.
And your final question comes from the line of Robin Farley from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a question about HDFS and something related to the change in prime versus subprime versus the last couple of quarters you reported.
But I also wanted to clarify your comments about the production that you're doing in advance and holding onto and not shipping because during the call you said that you maintained that excess of 7 000 bikes in inventory.
But then you also made a comment that company inventory fell by 4 400 units so I just wanted to clarify kind of which of those things -- just to get a sense of where that bikes built but not shipped stands cumulatively from both Q4 and Q1 at this point.
And then also just to sort of understand how although you can hold those and ship them later if you're doing that ahead of Q3 but your new model year starts in July you'll be shipping old model year bikes after the new model year starts? Or you'll be delaying the new model year start? Just trying to understand how the bikes built in previous quarters can be held over once the new model year starts? Robin the 7 000 units we brought into the year we held through the first quarter and we still have them.
What I referred to is that retail inventory the field inventory fell by 4 400 units.
Our company inventory is still up.
I also said that given the fact that we now moved the ERP to July and we synced that up with the model year 2013 new product launch that we will release those 7 000 prior to the third quarter we will release them in the second quarter and that's what's driving some of our shipment in the second quarter so high is they're coming out of inventory.
So in the U.S.
we will ship as much as we can of model year 2012 product out in the second quarter versus the third quarter because when we cut the system over we will begin making 2013 product and we want to get everything out so that the dealers can sell them down in anticipation of the new model year.
And regarding the HDFS mix I'd say what we saw this quarter was a slight shift towards more subprime in our mix.
We have in previous quarters talked about it being 80% to 85% prime.
This quarter was more around 80%.
And 2 things going on there the first is as we've talked about is our efforts to improve our analytical modeling to be able to approve more new prime and subprime customers and then we continue to see increasing competition in the prime lending space.
Thank you for your time this morning.
We appreciate your investment in Harley-Davidson.
The audio and visuals supporting today's call will be available at www.harley-davidson.com.
The audio can be accessed until May 8 by calling (404) 537-3406 or (855) 859-2056 in the U.S.
The pin number is 65016753#.
We expect to report our second quarter earnings on July 31 2012 and we'll publish a reminder notice about one month prior to that date.
If you have any questions contact us at (414) 343-8002.
Thanks.
And this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Tracy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to Harley-Davidson's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I'll now introduce and turn the call over to Ms.
Amy Giuffre Director of Investor Relations.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you Tracy.
Good morning everyone.
The audio for today's call is being webcast live on harley-davidson.com.
The supporting slides can be accessed by clicking on Company Investor Relations then Events and Presentations.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks that could cause actual results to be materially different.
Those risks include among others matters we have noted in our latest earnings release and filings with the SEC.
Harley-Davidson disclaims any obligation to update information in this call.
This morning you'll hear from Harley-Davidson's CEO Keith Wandell; CFO John Olin; and President of Harley-Davidson Financial Services Larry Hund.
Then we'll open the call for your questions.
So let's get started.
Keith? Thanks Amy.
Good morning and thanks everyone for joining us on the call.
We appreciate your spending this time with us today and for your interest in Harley-Davidson.
As you saw on this morning's earnings release Harley-Davidson reported continued strong performance including EPS growth of 32% for the second quarter and retail sales that exceeded our expectations through the first 6 months.
We believe these results are a reflection of the effective implementation of our business strategy combined with strong dealer execution at retail.
Our strategy provides the roadmap for success over the long term through exceptional product development manufacturing and retail capabilities.
And I want to recognize all the continued outstanding work by our employees our dealers and suppliers who are making such a difference.
Together we're doing great things working as one team moving in one direction to deliver for our customers.
Among the many initiatives underway as part of Harley-Davidson's strategy is the installation of our ERP system at our vehicle operations in York.
The migration of data from legacy systems to the new ERP system in early July went extremely well.
This has been followed by a ramp up of production under the new ERP system in York which also is going according to plan.
You don't have to look any further than this truly outstanding job to understand the passion and the dedication of our employees.
The implementation of the ERP at York supports our efforts to introduce greater flexibility in manufacturing.
In the years to come we expect to have much greater ability to produce any bike on any line anywhere.
Among the other benefits ERP enhances our ability to expand Harley-Davidson's leadership in factory customization over time.
It's a win for the company for our shareholders and our dealers and a big win for our customers.
A moment ago I touched on Harley-Davidson's retail sales growth and we again gained market share in the U.S.
in the second quarter.
We also continue to make progress at reaching new customer groups.
One of our goals is to grow faster -- to grow sales faster to outreach customers than to core riders and I'm pleased to report that in each of the past 3 quarters we've done just that.
And as we've noted previously we are the U.S.
market share leader among outreach customers defined as young adults women African-American and Hispanic riders a position we've held for the past 4 years.
So clearly our products and the unique Harley-Davidson experience exert a powerful pull for many different groups of riders and not just in the U.S.
but around the world.
We continue to deliver on our commitment to bring Harley-Davidson experience to more locations internationally.
Since the beginning of the year 12 new Harley-Davidson dealerships have opened in international markets including Croatia Russia Taiwan Poland and China.
And while we are pleased with the progress in these and many areas of -- other areas of our operations we're also being cautious in our expectations for retail in the back half of the year given the economic uncertainty in many markets.
Dealer retail sales in a number of Eurozone countries in particular are reflecting the effects of the economic challenges.
So we will continue to keep a close watch on those conditions.
This August is our kickoff for a year of epic experiences to celebrate our 110th anniversary.
We've got 2 crews of riders heading out at the same time starting next week who will be blogging and sharing their adventures with their GoPro cameras.
The first is a group of young athletes who have never been into Sturgis Motorcycle Rally and they will be riding from Seattle to the Black Hills.
Simultaneously on the opposite side of the world our Chief Marketing Officer Mark-Hans Richer and Asia Pacific Managing Director Dave Foley are celebrating with an amazing ride across Tibet along with some of our new Chinese dealers.
And anyone can go along on both of these epic 110th experiences through the online world of social networks at h-d.com/110.
Later this month we're expecting a record number of Harley-Davidson dealers and staff from around the globe to gather in Milwaukee for our annual summer dealer meeting.
The summer meeting is always a great time to connect with dealers share our plans for the business and have some fun.
And at the end of every summer dealer meeting we head off for a few days of riding with many of our dealers.
It's a long-standing tradition and helps us connect with one another in what this business is all about.
So in summary it's been a great first half and there's a lot to look forward to in the back half of the year and beyond.
All of us are working hard every day to unleash the full potential of our company and our globally iconic brand.
So thanks again for your continued interest and now let me turn it over to John Olin.
Thanks Keith and good morning everyone.
I'll review the financial results for the second quarter starting on Slide 9.
During the quarter Harley-Davidson Inc.
consolidated revenue was up 14.9% behind the 25% increase in motorcycle shipments.
Our second quarter income from continuing operations improved to $247.3 million an increase of $56.7 million.
Similarly diluted earnings per share rose to $1.07 per share up from $0.81 in the year-ago quarter a 32.1% increase.
Operating income for the Motorcycle business was $309.6 million up 40.8% compared to last year's second quarter.
The strong increase in the Motorcycle business was driven by increased motorcycle shipments higher gross margin and favorable restructuring spending as compared to last year partially offset by higher SG&amp;A.
Operating income at Harley-Davidson Financial Services was flat compared to last year's second quarter.
Now let's take a look at retail sales on Slide 10.
Overall worldwide retail sales of new motorcycles were up 2.8% in the second quarter and 9.3% year-to-date.
Retail sales reflect our strong global brand and product appeal but also reflect very challenging economic environments in many worldwide markets.
Moving on to Slide 11.
As we expected retail sales growth in the U.S.
in the second quarter moderated from the first quarter which benefited from an early and unusually warm spring which pulled forward some sales from the second quarter.
Sales in the U.S.
were up 4.0% during the second quarter and 12.0% on a year-to-date basis.
U.S.
market share strengthened by 1.2 percentage points to 55.1% in the second quarter versus prior year.
Year-to-date U.S.
market share was up 2.3 percentage points to 56.1% which is our highest June year-to-date market share on record.
During the second quarter we shipped all of the model year 2012 product from our company inventory in the U.S.
as we prepared for the ERP implementation in York and for the cutover to our 2013 model year production.
As a result U.S.
retail inventory was up 6 800 units versus a year ago.
This retail inventory increase will help bridge dealers until we begin shipping model year 2013 motorcycles which typically coincides with our summer dealer meeting.
The meeting which has historically happened in July will occur in mid-to-late August in the future and is scheduled for August 20 this year.
Despite the increase in retail inventory at the end of the second quarter we continue to expect retail inventory in the U.S.
will be below year-ago levels for most of the third quarter due to lower shipments versus prior year as a result of the production we have lost during the ERP implementation and due to the later date of the summer dealer meeting.
The chart in the lower right hand corner of Slide 11 illustrates how we expect the U.S.
retail inventory will change between historical levels and future expectations.
As we've discussed in the past few years one of our key strategies is to aggressively manage supply in line with demand.
This strategy coupled with our new more flexible manufacturing capability enables us to adjust the timing of motorcycle shipments which we expect will result in retail inventory levels to be more in line with customer demand.
We believe this will allow us to improve availability of motorcycles that customers want when they want them with greater operational efficiency for our dealers and the company.
As we have discussed York will be capable of flexing its production in the first half of 2013 followed by Kansas City in the first half of 2014.
Consequently we expect U.S.
retail inventory to be slightly lower in the future fourth quarters which will be aligned with the seasonal low point for retail sales and retail inventory to be modestly higher in future first second and third quarters also to better align with retail seasonality.
On Slide 12 you'll see retail sales in international markets for the quarter grew 0.5% driven by strong growth in Latin America and Asia Pacific regions partially offset by lower sales in the Europe region.
During the second quarter Latin America was up nearly 38% driven by strong performance in Brazil as the dealer network continues to gain momentum compared to last year second quarter when there were only a few dealers establishing their new businesses.
We remain very pleased with the progress of Brazil's dealer network and our future potential in the region.
Retail sales in the Asia Pacific region were up 10.0% driven by strong growth in Australia and in our emerging markets.
We continue to be very excited about our businesses in India and China and our small but rapidly growing dealer network in these 2 key emerging markets.
In Japan retail sales fell as a result of a challenging economic environment and increased competitive activity.
The EMEA region was down 6.4% for the quarter compared to 2011.
During the quarter we saw a significant softness in the Southern European countries and in the U.K.
Northern Europe's retail sales continued to grow behind strength in Germany but at a slower rate than we've experienced in the last several quarters.
In addition to challenging retail conditions in Europe our market share decreased slightly to 13.2% through May.
During the quarter Canada was up 1.8%.
As we've discussed international expansion is one of our core areas of investment for future growth.
It is our objective to open 100 to 150 new international dealerships between 2009 and 2014.
Since 2009 74 incremental international dealerships have been opened with roughly 2/3 in emerging markets.
On Slide 13 you'll see wholesale motorcycle shipments during the quarter were up 25% compared to last year as we depleted our company inventory in the U.S.
in anticipation of our July second ERP launch and 2013 model year cutover.
During the second quarter Custom and Touring as a percent of total shipments were up versus prior year and all categories were within their historical mix ranges.
International shipments as a percent of total were down slightly compared to last year as we allocated more motorcycles to the U.S.
market given the very strong first half or first quarter retail sales and tight retail inventory situation in the domestic market.
On Slide 14 you'll see revenue for Motorcycles and Related Products segment was up 17.1% in the second quarter behind strong growth for motorcycle shipments.
Parts and Accessory revenue was up 4.0% and General Merchandise revenue was up 3.1% in the quarter as related businesses revenue generally tracks with worldwide retail motorcycle sales.
Average motorcycle revenue per unit decreased $410 compared to last year largely as a result of unfavorable currency translation in the quarter.
On average our major foreign currencies devalued by approximately 8% between the second quarter of 2011 and the second quarter of 2012.
Slide 15 is intended to provide a clear view of the change and impact of our restructuring activities as we enter into the home stretch of our restructuring.
We are pleased to announce that the ERP launch started as planned on July 2.
As of today the ERP implementation is on plan our employees are successfully working with the new system and are producing model year 2013 motorcycles.
We will continue to work to increase efficiencies and maintain high-quality levels that we've experienced throughout the launch.
We incurred approximately $9 million in temporary inefficiencies during the quarter as we continue to expect temporary inefficiencies in 2012 to be generally in line with 2011 which were $32 million.
The expected ranges for the remaining quarters are noted on the slide.
Turning to the restructuring costs and savings on Slide 16.
We incurred $6.2 million in restructuring expenses during the quarter.
We are lowering our cost estimates by $10 million and now expect to spend $40 million to $50 million for the full year and $490 million to $510 million in total.
We continue to expect total ongoing annual savings of between $315 million and $335 million upon completion of our restructuring activities.
We are very pleased with our progress as we enter into the final stages of restructuring.
On Slide 17 you'll see gross margin in the quarter was 35.9% 0.9 percentage points higher than last year and slightly favorable to our expectations.
During the quarter gross margin percent benefited from lower manufacturing costs as a result of restructuring savings and incremental margin on higher production versus prior year.
Gross margin also benefited from the model year 2012 pricing increase and lower raw material cost which posted the first year-over-year improvement in 10 quarters.
Foreign exchange negatively impacted gross margin by $15.6 million driven by the devaluation of most key currencies partially offset by favorable hedge positions and the positive impact of lapping year-ago foreign currency losses.
Over the next several quarters we expect downward pressure on gross margin as a result of the devaluation we are experiencing in most key currencies.
The adverse financial impact of devaluation will be somewhat tempered in the near-term by our currency hedges.
We are very pleased with our gross margin performance during the first quarter and first half despite absorbing significant currency weakness.
However we continue to expect second half gross margin to be lower than the first half as a result of unfavorable currency exchange and production levels that are expected to be lower than the first half and below year-ago levels.
On Slide 18 operating margin as a percent of revenue for the second quarter was 19.7% up 3.3 percentage points compared to last year's second quarter.
Operating margin was favorably impacted by higher gross margin and favorable restructuring partially offset by increased SG&amp;A.
SG&amp;A was $248 million or 5.6% higher during the quarter compared to the second quarter last year.
On a year-to-date basis SG&amp;A was up 10.6% driven by 3 factors.
First and foremost we continue to invest in our future growth.
We believe there's great opportunity to grow our businesses worldwide therefore we are investing in our brand and our products as well as the way we deliver the Harley-Davidson experience to our customers.
Second our first half SG&amp;A expense included 6 additional days of spending compared to last year's fiscal calendar.
This is a result of syncing up our fiscal calendar with a regular calendar.
Conversely the fourth quarter of this year will have 5 fewer calendar days compared to last year's fourth quarter.
Lastly our Warranty and Recall expense was up versus the 6 months of last year primarily driven by significantly higher motorcycle shipments.
As a percent of revenue SG&amp;A continue to trend favorably to the first half of the year and was 1.2 percentage points lower than the same period last year at 17.1%.
As we look forward we expect third quarter SG&amp;A to be up moderately versus prior year and down in the fourth quarter compared to last year's resulting from the 5 fewer days in the quarter and as we lap the 2011 Q4 retail expense -- recall expense of $12 million.
We continue to expect SG&amp;A spending will increase on a year-over-year basis as we invest in growth but will decrease as a percent of revenue.
Now moving onto the Financial Services segment on Slide 19.
HDFS' operating profit decreased by $0.1 million compared to last year's second quarter.
The key drivers of the second quarter results were: First net interest income was up $2.6 million due to favorable borrowing costs partially offset by lower revenue as our book of retail loans continues to contract reflecting lower motorcycle sales since the downturn; Second the provision for retail credit losses was $0.7 million higher in the second quarter of 2012 versus the second quarter of 2011 primarily due to a $15.2 million 2011 credit loss reserve release versus $9.7 million 2012 release partially offset by lower credit losses.
And finally the provision for wholesale credit losses was $2.6 million higher in the second quarter of 2012 behind increased wholesale receivables resulting from increased shipment to the dealer in the quarter.
We continue to believe that HDFS' operating profit will decrease in 2012 compared to 2011.
We remain pleased with HDFS' performance and believe that it's critical for the sales of Harley-Davidson motorcycles and related products.
Now Larry will provide more detail on HDFS' operations on Slide 20.
Larry? Thanks John and good morning.
During the second quarter HDFS retail motorcycle loan originations increased 6.4% or $49.6 million compared to the same period last year.
The increase was driven by growth in used motorcycle loan originations and higher new motorcycle retail sales compared to last year partially offset by 1 percentage point decrease in retail market share of new Harley-Davidson motorcycle financing.
Total finance receivables outstanding increased 0.4% compared to a year ago driven by higher wholesale receivables due to higher shipments in the quarter.
HDFS is focused on prudently increasing credit application approval rates for near prime and sub-prime customers over the last several quarters.
Our goal is to maintain a portfolio that continues to perform well over time and delivers an appropriate return on equity.
We are very pleased with the improved retail delinquency rate and retail credit losses compared to last year which we'll see on Slide 21.
The 30-day delinquency rate for retail motorcycle loans at the end of the second quarter 2012 was 2.68% or 85 basis points better than the same date last year.
Annualized retail credit losses are at their lowest level in over 10 years.
For the first six months retail credit losses came in at 58 basis points considerably lower than prior year of 106 basis points.
Credit loss performance was driven by our continued strong underwriting collection and loss mitigation efforts as well as consumer credit behavior in the U.S.
While we continue to be disciplined in how we manage the loan portfolio and the overall business we have no assurance that current consumer behavior will continue.
At some point we expect shifting consumer behavior will temper the extremely strong credit performance we have experienced.
We are pleased with the continued progress at HDFS.
We remain focused on enabling sales of Harley-Davidson motorcycles while providing an attractive return to Harley-Davidson Inc.
Now let me turn it back to John.
Thanks Larry.
Now let's take a look at cash and liquidity on Slide 22.
You will see that at the end of the quarter we had $1.21 billion of cash and marketable securities.
In addition HDFS had $0.96 billion of available liquidity through bank credit and conduit facilities.
We currently have and intend to continue to maintain a minimum of 12 months of projected liquidity needs in cash and/or committed credit facilities.
During the second quarter we repurchased 3.1 million shares of Harley-Davidson stock for $150 million.
As we have stated returning value to our shareholders through increasing dividends and share repurchases is a top priority.
We will continue to evaluate opportunities to enhance value for our shareholders.
Early in the third quarter HDFS completed a $675 million asset-backed securitization transaction at a weighted average interest rate of 0.81%.
Now I'd like to highlight one item on Slide 23 which provides the remaining Harley-Davidson Inc.
financials.
The company provided operating cash of $288 million during the first six months compared to $473 million provided in 2011.
The decrease in cash flows was primarily driven by an increase in HDFS wholesale lending activities driven by an over 20% increase in shipments during the period.
The Motorcycle business generated operating cash of $220 million during the second quarter.
On Slide 24 you will see that for 2012 we continue to expect motorcycle shipments to be between 245 000 and 250 000 motorcycles on a worldwide basis up 5% to 7% from 2011.
We continue to be committed to aggressively managing the supply of new motorcycles in line with demand.
In the U.S.
we expect our dealers to retail more units than they shipped in 2012 thereby lowering year-end retail inventories in the U.S.
as we expect our flexible manufacturing capability at York will be up and running in the first half of next year.
During the third quarter we expect to ship between 51 000 and 56 000 units which is down 9% to 17%.
We expect shipments to be down behind lowered production as a result of the downtime associated with the ERP implementation for our plan.
As we have previously discussed we also expect Q4 shipments and production to be down versus prior year because we expect to utilize flexible production in York in the first half of 2013.
Consequently we do not expect to produce and ship as many motorcycles in the fourth quarter to support spring sales.
Also this year will by lapping last year's excess inventory build of 7 000 motorcycles for the fourth quarter to support the ERP launch.
And finally this year there will be 5 fewer calendar days in Q4 compared to last year's fourth quarter as we reset our corporate calendar.
We continue to expect full-year 2012 gross margin will be between 34.75% and 35.75%.
We expect gross margin will be positively impacted by incremental restructuring savings increased productivity from every day continuous improvement motorcycle pricing and product mix.
We believe that raw material costs and temporary inefficiencies related to our restructuring activities will be comparable to 2011 levels.
Currency is also expected to be unfavorable for the full year behind significantly weaker foreign currencies.
Finally we continue to expect 2012 capital expenditures to be between $190 million and $210 million which includes approximately $35 million of capital related to restructuring.
As we look back on the second quarter of 2012 our overall results are in line with our expectations.
Retail sales growth moderated but we gained share in the U.S.
reinforcing brand strength and product appeal.
Despite a negative impact from foreign currency exchange during the quarter gross margin percentage was up over last year.
HDFS continues to perform well as we experience incredibly strong loss performance.
Also during the quarter we repurchased over 3 million shares of our stock.
Today we are thrilled that our ERP launch in York is on plan.
It's a huge step in our progress towards transforming to world-class manufacturing.
We remain focused on executing against our strategies as we complete our final activities and our manufacturing restructuring continue to transform our organization and grow our business while delivering strong margins strong returns and value to our shareholders.
Thank you for your continued confidence and investment in Harley-Davidson.
And now let's open the call up to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Tim Conder with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Keith and John you mentioned that the year-to-date retail sales are a little bit ahead of your expectations yet clearly they were slowing during the second quarter.
And yet you did not change your annual guidance for shipments.
Could you just maybe comment on your comfort level with the U.S.
channel inventories in prior 2 you'd commented that those were a little bit low and you said you kept more in the U.S.
versus international this quarter due to that fact.
So just in light of all that comment where U.S.
channel inventories are and in light of your cautionary comments also looking forward with retail.
Okay Tim.
First start with overall retail sales.
We're very pleased with retail sales growth in the first half of 2012 but we do remain cautious on the U.S.
economic recovery.
As we expected in the second quarter retail sales moderated from the first quarter levels and they did.
Our dealer sales were up 12% despite the slow economic growth in the U.S.
We gained 2.3 points of market share which we feel great about as well.
And finally sales to outreach customers outpaced that of our core customers which is one of our core objectives.
So we're feeling very good about the first half.
Again cautious on the second half as we move into some more uncertain economic times.
But when we look at the overall channel inventories as we have been discussing we shipped out as much as we could into the second quarter which were all the model year 2012 motorcycles that we had in inventory in the U.S.
That pushed our quarter-end retail inventories in the field up about 6 800 units.
And we're looking for that to bridge us to when we shipped the new model year 2013 product which is the time of the dealer show in about the 3rd week of August.
So what we believe is that given the fact that production was down after that and we've got such above 7 weeks until we ship again is that we expect third quarter inventories to be below year-ago levels even though they're starting out on a 6 800 units higher we would expect them to dip below year-ago levels until we start replenishing with the model year 2013 motorcycles.
The good news is that our dealers and customers typically experience this model year cutover at the same point during this year.
Just a little bit longer of a bridge.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So in general then John in light of all that are you guys comfortable with the U.S.
channel inventories at this level? And given everything you know at this point about the trajectory of retail would you term them a little bit still under ideal levels where you would want? And again I know that surge is coming for next spring but just in the context of everything.
Yes we would still characterize them as a little bit under where we would like them to be.
Certainly we exited the first quarter very light.
The second quarter again we built it up but that's going to deplete very quickly and we would like to add a little bit more in the third quarter as well.
As we've discussed though we feel -- I'm very comfortable with the third quarter and actually expect those to come down a bit.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Kennison with Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on a topic from your analyst meeting in New York.
Do you expect the year-end dealer inventory to fall in 2013 next year? Yes.
Yes so let's take a look at overall -- our objective is pretty simple: We want to produce and deliver our products that customer’s want when they want them and where they want them.
And so what we're doing is changing historical patterns that we've seen up in the past when we're at level production.
So as we gain a capability that produce more when customers want them we then have the ability to produce less when customers don't want them.
And that's what the previous question was all about.
It's in the fourth quarter we would expect those inventories to be down this year because now for products produced at our York facility we'll be able to do more in the springtime when the customers are looking for them so we don't need as much inventory to sit in the dealer network in December.
Now when we look at 2013 the same thing is going to happen.
It's just that that capability of flexible manufacturing or our ability to surge production at Kansas City takes place in the first half of 2014.
Whereas the exact same reason is we don't need to make as many new products out of Kansas City and put them in dealer inventory in the fourth quarter because we'll now be able to do it in the spring selling season.
So yes we would expect both the fourth quarter retail inventory to be down slightly in 2013 and 2014.
Your next question comes from the line of Sharon Zackfia with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I just have a few questions.
I think first on the ERP implementation.
Can you help us understand how that might impact the mix of bikes that you're shipping this quarter? And then secondarily given what's going on in Europe there may be some more global uncertainty how are you can kind of thinking about your potential for price in the 2013 models? The ERP again we couldn't be more pleased with the ERP launch.
Everything is on plan.
We feel great about where we're at.
Having said that we are producing all models on a single combined line using the new system.
So we don't expect any big changes or dramatic changes to the mix that our customers want in the third quarter.
I think the next question Sharon was with regards to 2013 pricing.
We don't provide anything on 2013 or the next model year pricing until we deliver it to our dealers.
So what we will do is announce pricing of our motorcycles in the U.S.
and around the world on August 20 at our worldwide dealer meeting here in Milwaukee.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just a follow-up on that.
Given the currency pressure can you help us understand kind of where you're coming out on currency versus raw materials as you look forward? Because I would expect perhaps raw materials are partial offset at least to the currency pressure.
Okay.
Well let's talk about currency first.
During the quarter it's certainly a tough quarter when we look at foreign currency.
If you look at a year-ago second quarter versus this on quarter it devalued by 8%.
The euro was down 11% I think and the real was down 19% over that period of time.
That had a very unfavorable impact on revenue of about $33.2 million.
Some of our hedging activities we got about $18 million of it back so for the quarter it was unfavorable by $15.6 million.
So that was certainly more than we had anticipated and the foreign currencies within the quarter devalued by 3%.
So very unfavorable however we did see some favorability in our raw materials.
First time in 10 quarters that we've seen the year-over-year improvement in raw materials and certainly they came in pretty strong at $4.7 million.
Of that most of that was metals about $4.2 million metals and the other was fuel.
So in the third and the second quarter the 2 certainly did not offset one another.
As we look forward overall raw materials we expect to be flat on a year-over-year basis but we are seeing a pretty good trend or a pretty good number here in the second quarter.
Currency we are pretty certain that it is going to be unfavorable as we move forward.
So when we look at the third quarter the euro a year ago was at $1.42 exchange rate and as we close the markets yesterday it was at $1.23 and that's a 14% difference between quarters.
So we would expect pressure on revenue from foreign currency exchange and that will be somewhat mitigated by some of our hedges.
But we would expect currency to be unfavorable in the third and fourth quarters.
So we do not expect that raw materials can cover what we're seeing in currency.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Aaron with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask a question on the gross margin.
It sounds like your expectations for mix has shifted more positively from last quarters.
Is that accurate? And if so was that a driver of kind of some positive earnings in the gross margin in the second quarter? And then can you also speak to why the mix is -- mix might be moving more positive? Well yes.
So last quarter we were expecting mix to be slightly unfavorable because as we took our volumes most of that was coming out of Kansas City which typically has a lower mix.
But as we got through this quarter and everything is going so well on the ERP implementation in the prior question we're able to build all the products that we are looking for out of York the proper mix of product that we now feel that our product mix will be slightly favorable as we end the year.
So through the first half mix is largely flat up by $0.5 million was up $1 million in the second quarter but we would expect it to be somewhat favorable as we end the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Patrick Archambault with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on one of the earlier questions.
I guess you said that inventory was not quite where you wanted it to be.
You ended up year-on-year this past quarter but you were going to deplete it obviously a lot of that is what happened through August.
Can you just maybe tell us what -- how the September quarter or the September period is tracking? Are you fully up to levels where you're able to produce at the volumes that you want to or there are still remaining testing measures that need to be taken at York just as a final stage before you really get up to volumes that you would like to be at? The York ERP implementation we said at the last conference call that we've started on July 2 and it would largely be behind us as we exited the month of July and I'm happy to say that we're there.
So we had a wrap of a grand plan that had us returning the pre-ERP implementation line speeds in just 4 weeks.
And that's at the end of this week.
And so right now we're exactly where we want to be on plan and over the next couple of shifts we will be producing at pre-ERP launch line rates.
So there is not an issue in terms of production coming out of York at all with regards to overall inventory or mix.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So basically I mean the drawdown was exactly as expected it's just that you would have liked to have gone into the quarter maybe with just a little bit more padding? Yes.
As you know and again it kind of goes back to the fact that retail sales are over -- or exceeded our expectations for the first half.
So originally we would have expected a little bit more going in in retail inventory but we're up 6800 units and that will have to do over the next several weeks until we launch the new product.
Your next question comes from the line of Rod Lache with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could just be a little bit more explicit on what you expect for the rest of this year for FX based on where your hedges are at assuming spot rates stay where they are now and if they did stay where they are now what would be the headwind for 2013? Rod we don't provide a forward look at currency and the reason is there are so many factors that come in.
There's so many currencies that play that compared to year ago movements within the quarter mix of products and sales.
So we don't provide that if we're here this is where we're going to end up.
But suffice to say that revenue is going to be impacted quite significantly if rates stay where they're at in the third and the fourth quarter.
We do have hedges on that were put on over the last 4 quarters.
So those are put on at more favorable rates than we're experiencing right now.
And that will mitigate some of the impact that we're seeing in revenue.
But overall we expect both revenue and gross profit to be hurt by the currency exchange and the devaluation of the currencies that we have.
But there are so many factors that came in if I gave out a number tomorrow it would be wrong.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then maybe if you could just comment on your -- the production guidance for Q4 looks like it's slightly lower than Q3 despite the ERP implementation issues in the third quarter.
Is there some aspect of this that's rolling into the fourth quarter or are you just looking to keep production pretty close to where sales are coming in this year? Well we're looking to match our customer demand.
So we have firepower in the fourth quarter to produce more.
But production will be down versus year-ago levels because of the fact that now we can produce them in the first half closer to demand and we much rather do that than produce them and put them in inventory in the fourth quarter.
The other things that are going to have production down year-over-year is the fact that again a year ago we were building excess inventory for the ERP launch and we've got 5 fewer days for production.
So we do have the capability to produce more product out of both Kansas City and York in the fourth quarter.
But at this time we feel comfortable with our estimate of shipments being up 5% to 7% and taking inventories down in the fourth quarter and moving that production to the first half of next year.
Your next question comes from the line of James Hardiman with Longbow Research.
You mentioned that there was some demand pulled forward into the first quarter due to the weather that seems to make all the sense in the world.
I don't think that anybody thought that the 20% first quarter growth was remotely sustainable.
I guess my question is when you look at the third -- I'm sorry the 3% growth rate in 2Q if we were to strip away any of that weather impact I know that's hard to do but do you think that the underlying momentum of your business is any better than that or do you think that that's about the run rate we should expect going forward? James there is absolutely no way for us to tell how much sales was pulled forward.
There's certainly every indication that a fair amount was pulled into the first quarter with the first quarter weather I think although the third quarter was the best in 100 years.
But we would not speculate on the split between what the quarter should have been.
What we do know is that the first half was up 12% and we feel very good about that especially given the soft economic environment in the United States and we're up 9.3% on a worldwide basis.
And again that's done in an environment that we've got a deepening recession in Europe.
So we feel very good about overall first half but there is absolutely no way and we don't know how many were in the first quarter versus second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Let me ask the question this way.
I mean given your guidance for the back half of the year it's hard to ask the question because I know you guys don't want to give any retail guidance.
But built into that lower production guidance for the back half are you assuming a retail that's generally about where we are right now? I can't provide that.
That would be giving retail guidance James.
We feel good about our shipment guidance of 5% to 7%.
If retail sales are awarded we can produce a little bit more in the fourth quarter but at this point our preference would be to make it closer to the customers' demands in the spring of 2013.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Badishkanian with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just kind of looking at the retail inventory levels for 2013 I know you'd like to bring those down by design which is favorable make the supply chain more efficient.
Let's say retail demand is robust what level of production can you achieve though given the Kansas City facility switchover? Can you really kind of step up demand if you need to or are you constrained by supply? I'm sorry that was in 2013? Research Division</strong> Yes I'm thinking -- looking at 2013 and '14.
As we've discussed we'll be able to surge capacity in York in the first half and we feel comfortable with meeting any demand out of our York facility.
With Kansas City Kansas City capacity is not an issue in the short-term.
We want to do is to be able to make units closer to customer demand so we will not experience the same type of capacity constraints at our Kansas City facility as we did in York.
Remember York was completely transformed everything was moved down to a single line.
We don't have those same things happening at Kansas City and again overall we have plenty of capacity at Kansas City.
But what we want to do is better utilize and more efficiently make units out of Kansas City and again using the surge capability to get closer to customer demand.
So overall in 2013 we do not have any -- we don't foresee any capacity constraints.
Our next question comes from the line of Robin Farley with UBS Securities.
Research Division</strong> I have a question on your gross margin guidance because you originally said you thought Q2 will be in line with Q1 and then kind of in late June at your analyst day you said it would fall below Q1 levels.
And it seems like last minute it came in in line.
And I don't know if you can give us any color on that if that was just some last-minute shipment mix that shifted that or FX not being negative an impact? Did you saw it or kind of what was of such a last-minute nature to change gross margin? And then I don't know if -- you would normally give out a comment about used bike prices or recall values or something and you didn't comment on used bike prices I don't know if you have any color there to share.
Okay Robin with regards to the gross margin yes gross margin came in a little bit higher than we expected in the second quarter which we're very pleased with.
There's nothing that happened at the last minute.
And we didn't -- or don't update guidance between and within the quarter.
But what happened is in why we came in a little bit more favorable to what we had anticipated is largely driven by raw materials.
Raw materials were $4.7 million favorable.
In the first quarter they were unfavorable by I believe it was $1.6 million or in that neighborhood.
So that was really what pushed us over where we thought we would be which again was below the first quarter gross margin which was 35.9% again we came in even and certainly pleased with that.
With regards to used bikes.
So used bikes over the last 3 quarters the gap or the pricing gap between new and used or the value gap has remained very constant.
As we have discussed in the fourth quarter of 2011 it was really the inflection point where we saw new grow faster than used and that was after a period of many quarters where used was growing faster than new.
And we have kept that for the last 3 quarters as new has grown slightly faster than our used bike sales over the last 3 quarters.
And we really take that to mean that the gap between new and used is at probably where it's going to be going into the future.
We can grow both new and used bikes at the price levels that we have so we feel pretty comfortable and we do not expect huge movements in the price gap between new and used moving forward.
Your next question comes from Jamie Katz with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> Can you guys maybe offer us some insight on how kind of European demand was overall because it's a little bit hard to parse out currency versus price per unit of the bike and I'm curious if maybe the promotional cadence had updated or there were some additional incentives to get units out the door over there? Jamie there was no price discounts going on in Europe.
When we look at the overall price per bike that we've mentioned $410 of that was driven by currency.
There was a little bit of offset because of the favorable pricing that we took a year ago but that is currency.
And again that's the 8% devaluation across all our international currencies.
When we look specifically at Europe Europe held up very well last year.
Actually Europe our core sales in Europe were up over 5% last year and we saw a little bit of weakness in the first quarter and that certainly continued into the second quarter.
I think we're down 3.1% in the first quarter and down 9.1%.
And what's really happening in Europe is a kind of a tale of 2 markets the South started deep declines in the third quarter of 2011 and will start to lap those coming up in this quarter.
And the North has largely been growing quite robustly.
And over the last couple of quarters we've seen the North while still growing fall a little bit.
And really the story in Europe is with regards to the recession and consumer confidence the financial crisis that's happening there.
Again we're going to focus on what we can control and continue to build the brand and the distribution network.
Your next question comes from Ed Aaron with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to clarify something from your earlier comments.
I think you'd indicated that dealer inventories would end lower in 2013 and 2014 just because of the seasonal change in your kind of production model.
And I can understand the step down in '13 because you have the KC surge coming into effect but why would there be an incremental change in 2014 as well? If I said that I apologize.
We expect inventory to be lower this year 2012 because of our ability to surge capacity at York in 2013.
We expect 2013 retail inventory to be down slightly given our ability to surge Kansas City production in 2014.
I did not intend to make any comments with regards to retail inventory at the end of 2014.
So if I did I apologize.
We expect to be down in 2013 and 2014.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just one more quick one if I could.
Can you comment on your -- what you saw competitively in Japan that you flagged in your prepared remarks? Yes.
Japan one is the economy is slow as well.
But two there's more price competition in Japan in particular by Honda.
So we lost a little bit of share in the second quarter and the team is addressing that but it was a little bit lower than we had anticipated.
So we'll work through that.
Your next question comes from Tim Conder with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> John any color you can give here on the channel inventories in Europe? You mentioned again that you tilted shipments in the second quarter to the U.S.
because it was so strong and then clearly you've cited a couple of Kansas cases what's going on in Europe but any color you can give us on those channels inventories in Europe? Yes.
We feel fine with the inventory in Europe given the sales were down.
So we did shift that production into the growing market which is the U.S.
in the second quarter.
But remember Europe inventory is handled a little bit different than in the U.S.
that's somewhat we call a pipeline method.
So every all dealers have kind of floor stack and when they sell one they get one out of the warehouse which allows smaller dealerships utilize less working capital.
That's been incredibly beneficial as we've seen the South volumes decline and the North accelerate.
It allows us to get product where we want it when we need it.
So by moving a couple of thousand units out of that which has been in a consolidated warehouse given their sales were lower in the United States we don't have any concerns with that and we feel very good about our inventories in Europe as well as in Asia and Latin America.
Your next question comes from Patrick Archambault Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just actually wanted to ask one on HDFS.
I think you had cited I guess 2 questions.
Number one in terms of borrowing costs I think you had said that borrowing costs were favorable this year or this quarter excuse me.
What's the outlook for that? I mean is there anymore diversification in funding away from shorter term to medium-term notes that you need to do and could that be a potential headwind from a borrowing cost perspective going forward? And then also can you just give us the math on where reserves or provisions should end the year? I think it sounds like you took down provisions a little bit as well this quarter if I heard that correctly.
Okay.
Patrick I'll take the first part of the question then I'll let Larry answer the second.
We're very pleased with borrowing costs.
As we discussed we're adjusting the market and did a securitization for $675 million at 0.81%.
And in the first quarter we run the medium-term note market and did the lowest MTN for a five-year period that we've ever done at 2.7%.
So we feel fantastic about our borrowing cost.
To answer your question with regards to diversification we also feel very comfortable where we're at today.
As you may all recall is that -- over the last couple of years we've been looking to more diversify our funding move more into a more balanced approach between term notes as well as the securitization and CP.
So we feel great about where we're at in terms of the overall diversification.
We're not looking to make any major changes.
So that should not have an impact on borrowing cost as we go forward.
I'll let Larry answer the second question.
Sure thanks John.
Regarding the allowance we had an allowance at the beginning of the period of $122.5 million our provision for the quarter was actually a credit of $5.3 million.
That was driven as John said by the allowance release of $9.7 million in our retail portfolio.
Net charge-offs for the quarter were $3 million and that left us with a provision at the end of the quarter of $114.2 million.
We are not going to give any guidance regarding where we expect to end the year regarding our allowance or what provisions in the third or fourth quarter.
I'll just continue to reinforce my remarks which were credit conditions remain favorable right now.
I think we've done a lot of good things in underwriting but also there's some unfavorable consumer behavior trends which are driving our relatively low delinquency and loss levels at the present time.
Your last question comes from the line of Greg Badishkanian with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Without discussing anything real specific to front run yourself at the dealer day but what level of innovation do you expect or are you planning to maybe hit different demographics or different segments or is it just going to be kind of really innovative new products? What -- maybe some color versus even historical levels of innovations coming out of your new products would be helpful? Greg we're not going to provide any look to what you might see in the next couple of weeks at the dealer show.
What I would say broadly is we're making great progress on our product development transformation and the ability to move product through there quicker and to better target product toward our outreach groups in the U.S.
and around the world.
And as we've said before we would expect to start to see kind of the fruits of that restructuring and transformation in next year's product model year '14 product.
But with regards to this model year I'm not going to provide anything.
We'll have it out in about 4 weeks here or 3 weeks.
At this time there are no further questions in queue.
I'll turn the call back over to the presenters.
I want to thank you for your time this morning.
We appreciate your investment in Harley-Davidson.
The audio and visual support for today's call will be available at harley-davidson.com.
The audio can also be accessed until August 16 by calling (404) 537-3406 or (855) 859-2056 in the U.S.
The PIN number is 97247206#.
If you have any other questions contact Investor Relations at (414) 343-8002.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
My name is Sarah and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome you all to the third quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] I'd now like to turn the call over to our host Ms.
Amy Giuffre Director of Investor Relations.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you Sarah and welcome to Harley-Davidson's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
The audio for today's call is being webcast live on harley-davidson.com.
The supporting slides can be accessed on the website by clicking Company Investor Relations then Events and Presentations.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks that could cause actual results to be materially different.
Those risks include among others matters we have noted in our latest earnings release and filings with the SEC.
Harley-Davidson disclaims any obligation to update information in this call.
Today you'll hear from Harley-Davidson CEO Keith Wandell; and CFO John Olin.
President of Harley-Davidson Financial Services Larry Hund is unable to join us for the call this morning but will be joining us again next quarter.
Following Keith and John's comments we'll open the call for your questions.
So let's get started.
Keith? Well thank you Amy.
And good morning and thanks for joining us on today's call.
As we look back at the third quarter and the first 9 months of the year I'm truly proud of everything that the Harley-Davidson team of employees dealers and suppliers has achieved so far in 2012.
During the quarter we continued to see evidence of the successful execution of our strategy.
With our focus on leadership in manufacturing and product development and at retail we believe that we are increasingly poised to provide an even more exceptional customer experience.
The entire team is focused and doing a great job of delivering on the many changes underway in all parts of the business.
And together we're positioning Harley-Davidson for success not only today but over the long term.
We achieved a pivotal milestone in the third quarter with the launch of the ERP operating system at our York plant.
And we exited the quarter on track with our production targets.
Now our focus is on optimizing the system.
And we're also making final preparations for the implementation of seasonal surge production capacity at York early next year.
Implementation of the production changes at Milwaukee Tomahawk and Kansas City while not at the same magnitude as York continue to go very well.
Coming out of 2012 we will be largely finished with our manufacturing restructuring and we are delivering this massive change on time and on target.
And that's great news and it's a tremendous achievement that will benefit our customers our dealers our employees and our shareholders.
We're making steady progress in other areas as well.
We continue to grow outreach and core customer segments and expand our global reach.
In the U.S.
our strategy calls for us to grow sales to outreach customers at a faster rate than to core customers and we're doing that.
In all 3 quarters of this year growth in sales to our U.S.
outreach segments of young adults women African Americans and Hispanics has exceeded growth in sales to our U.S.
core customers.
In fact through 9 months sales to outreach customers grew at nearly twice the rate as sales to core riders thus ensuring new riders coming into the Harley-Davidson family.
As we noted previously we continue to hold the #1 market share position in each of our U.S.
outreach segments.
And combined retail sales to outreach and core customers are up 6.2% through 9 months compared to a year ago.
One of the key drivers with outreach and core customers alike is new products.
And with our 2013 motorcycles we believe we are again hitting the mark and expanding our leadership of the custom cruiser and touring markets.
The knockout 2013 Harleys include 5 new models introduced this year: the Softail Slim and the 72 which were launched in January; and the CVO Breakout and the CVO Road King; and the expansion of H-D1 factory customization to the Dyna Street Bob.
There are also 5 models with big metal flake Hard Candy Custom paint and 10 limited edition 110th Anniversary motorcycles.
It all adds up to a lot of new offerings for both core and outreach customers.
And in the years ahead you can expect to increasingly see the results of our investments in bringing exceptional new products to market.
Let's turn to the international markets for a second.
We continue to advance the opportunity we see for sales growth.
We are on plan to open 100 to 150 new international dealerships between 2009 and 2014.
And to date in 2012 we've added 16 new international dealerships.
And in total since 2009 we've added 78 international dealerships.
In Latin America we've seen 16 consecutive months of double-digit growth led by Brazil and Mexico.
And in the Asia Pacific region new motorcycle sales in Japan Australia China and India and our other emerging markets are all up in each of those markets for the quarter and through 9 months.
In the EMEA region motorcycle sales grew 1.8% in the third quarter despite the economic uncertainty in the EU.
So a special thanks to our dealers and employees in the EMEA region for their accomplishments amid these challenging economic environments.
We also have seen strong sales in emerging markets worldwide where Harley-Davidson retail motorcycles are up more than 30% this year.
While today these markets are a relatively small part of our overall volume we believe our growth in emerging markets is a great example of Harley-Davidson's global appeal and the opportunity that lies ahead.
It's without question that we're making great progress but we all know there's still a lot more to do.
Harley-Davidson's strategy provides a roadmap for how we deliver exceptional product and brand experiences that foster deep emotional connections with customers.
Simply put we must continue to be the best at what we do not just today but far into the future.
So thanks for your time today.
Thanks for your investment and thanks for your interest in Harley-Davidson.
Now let me turn it over to John Olin.
Thanks Keith and good morning everyone.
I'll review the financial results for the third quarter starting on Slide 11.
As we anticipated our third quarter key financial metrics were down versus prior year.
This is the result of significant changes to our historical shipping patterns driven by the launch of a new ERP system at York during the quarter.
I also want to recognize that it was a critical quarter as we put in place some of the final pieces of our manufacturing strategy which will enable us to better meet customer demand in the future.
With that as background let's discuss our third quarter results.
During the quarter Harley-Davidson Inc.
consolidated revenue was down 10.5% behind a 14.5% decrease in motorcycle shipments.
Our third quarter income from continuing operations was $134.0 million a decrease of $49.6 million.
Similarly diluted earnings per share were $0.59 per share down from $0.78 in the year-ago quarter a 24.4% decrease.
Operating income from the motorcycle business was $144.8 million down 19.9% compared to last year's third quarter.
The decrease was driven by a planned reduction in motorcycle shipments partially offset by higher gross margin and favorable restructuring spending.
Operating income at Harley-Davidson Financial Services was up compared to last year's third quarter driven by higher net interest income as we lapped a prior year loss on bond repurchases.
Finally this quarter's net income was adversely impacted by a higher tax rate as compared to last year's third quarter.
Now let's take a look at retail sales on Slide 12.
Overall worldwide retail sales of new motorcycles were down 1.3% in the third quarter and up 6.0% year-to-date.
Retail sales in the quarter reflect lower production that affected product availability in the U.S.
Also impacting retail sales was the retiming of the new model year launch from July to August as well as ongoing economic challenges in many worldwide markets.
Let's take a look at U.S.
the U.S.
market on Slide 13.
As we expected retail sales in the U.S.
in the third quarter were negatively impacted by limited product availability.
During the quarter U.S.
retail sales were down 5.2% but up 6.2% on a year-to-date basis.
During the third quarter U.S.
retail inventory fell to extremely low levels driven by 3 factors: First planned production was down in July by about 40% as we cut over to the new ERP system in York; second the new model year introduction was moved out 1 month to August.
Consequently there was a longer period of time between ending model year 2012 production and shipping model year 2013 motorcycles.
And third August and early September York production was down from anticipated production rates as our employees focused on system issues that came up during the ERP implementation.
As we discussed last quarter we entered the third quarter with 6 800 more units in the U.S.
retail inventory than the prior year.
And at that time we also expected inventory would quickly fall below prior year levels and would remain below prior year levels for most of the quarter.
And remember the prior year inventory level was already lower than desired.
The quarter did play out largely as expected.
Inventories quickly fell below prior year levels.
However as supply of York motorcycles was restored to prior year levels sales responded positively.
As we exited the quarter dealer inventory ended up about 3 100 units higher than a year ago and retail momentum was strong.
In terms of market share our U.S.
share was down slightly reflecting limited product availability for most of the quarter.
However our U.S.
market share softened by 0.2 percentage points to 57.7% in the third quarter versus prior year.
Year-to-date U.S.
market share was up 1.4 percentage points to 56.5% which is our highest September year-to-date market share on record.
On Slide 14 you'll see retail sales at international markets for the quarter grew 7.6% driven by increased year-over-year sales in all major regions.
During the third quarter Latin America was up over 32% driven by strong performance in Brazil and Mexico.
Retail sales in the Asia-Pacific region were up 9.8% driven by strong growth in our emerging markets and in Australia.
We continue to be excited about our growing businesses in India and China.
Additionally we are pleased to see Japan was up 2.5% despite a challenging economic environment and increased competitive activity.
The EMEA region was up 1.8% for the quarter compared to 2011.
During the quarter we continued to see significant softness in the U.K.
and Southern European countries especially Spain and Italy.
While these markets remain down significantly their rate of decline improved from the previous couple of quarters as they lapped the steep declines which began in Q3 2011.
Northern Europe's retail sales continue to grow in the quarter behind strength in Germany and Switzerland.
Through August our market share in Europe was flat to prior year at 13.1%.
We expect continued volatility and pressure on sales in the EMEA region as a result of the extremely challenging macroeconomic environment.
Finally during the quarter Canada was up 4.9% from the prior year period.
International expansion is one of our core areas of investment for future growth.
During the quarter dealerships were opened in China India South Africa and Oman.
On Slide 15 you'll see wholesale motorcycle shipments during the quarter were down 14.5% compared to last year behind lower production due to the implementation of the York ERP system.
During the third quarter Custom and Touring as a percent of total shipments were 3.5 percentage points lower than prior year.
This was also a result of the impact of the ERP implementation at York.
International shipments as a percent of the total were up compared to last year as we allocated more motorcycles to international markets.
As you may recall in the second quarter we temporarily diverted some international units to the U.S.
to meet the strong demand in that market.
On Slide 16 you'll see revenue for Motorcycles and Related Products segment was down 11.6% driven by lower shipments in motorcycles during the third quarter.
Parts and Accessory revenue was down 0.8% behind a 1.3% decrease in worldwide retail motorcycle sales.
General Merchandise revenue was up 9.1% driven by our sportswear and leathers categories which included the new 110th Anniversary products.
Average motorcycle revenue per unit decreased $279 compared to last year largely as a result of unfavorable currency translation in the quarter.
On average our major foreign currencies were weaker by approximately 9% between the third quarter of 2011 and the third quarter of 2012.
During the quarter we increased our global average prices for the 2013 model year motorcycles by approximately 0.75%.
We believe our ability to increase prices for the second consecutive year reflects the strength of our brand and appeal of our new motorcycles.
Slide 17 provides the cadence and impact of our restructuring activities.
The big news for the quarter was the York ERP implementation a crucial milestone in our manufacturing transformation.
While we are very pleased overall we did experience some minor systems disruptions after we cut over in July.
In fact we lowered production in August and early September as we focused on resolving these system issues.
While there were no major complications the slower production compounded the already limited product availability during the quarter.
By the end of the quarter we were caught up on the lost production.
However we utilized overtime to catch up.
Today the York production line is largely running at speed and we have shifted our focus to system optimization.
We incurred approximately $11 million in temporary inefficiencies during the quarter.
We were toward the high end of our range partially due to the overtime we accumulated as we made up for the slower-than-planned production during the ERP implementation at York.
As a result we now expect $32 million to $35 million in temporary inefficiencies for the full year.
We are very pleased with the new system and look forward to the benefits it brings to our future.
The next step at York is to prepare for the execution of our flexible manufacturing strategy which will allow us to produce motorcycles closer to customer demand starting in the first quarter of next year.
Turning to the restructuring cost and savings on Slide 18.
We incurred $9.2 million in restructuring expenses during the quarter.
We also moved $5 million of expected spending from 2013 -- 2012 to 2013.
We now expect between $35 million to $45 million for the full year 2012 and $5 million to $10 million for 2013.
We continue to expect total cost to be $490 million to $510 million.
We also continue to expect total ongoing annual savings of between $315 million and $335 million upon completion of our restructuring activities.
We are very pleased with our progress as we enter into the final stages of restructuring.
On Slide 19 you'll see gross margin in the quarter fell $37.5 million behind lower shipment volumes and unfavorable mix which both were the result of the ERP implementation at York.
Gross margin benefited from lower manufacturing cost as a result of restructuring savings.
Gross margin also benefited from the model year 2013 motorcycle price increases and lower raw material costs.
Foreign exchange positively impacted gross margin by $1.2 million.
However revenue was $28 million lower as a result of the devaluation we experienced in most key currencies versus last year offset by favorable hedge positions and the positive impact of lapping year ago foreign currency losses.
Over the next several quarters we expect downward pressure on gross margins as a result of the devaluation we are experiencing in most key currencies.
The adverse financial impact of devaluation will be somewhat tempered in the near term by our currency hedges.
As a percent of revenue gross margin increased to 34.7% or up 1.0 percentage points versus last year's third quarter.
We are very pleased with our gross margin performance during the quarter and the first 9 months.
However we expect fourth quarter gross margin percent to be roughly in line with last year's fourth quarter.
We expect fourth quarter gross margin percent will include productivity gains and improved mix but will be offset by unfavorable foreign currency and significantly lower production levels as compared to last year.
Operating margin for the quarter fell by $35.9 million driven by lower gross margin as a result of lower shipments.
As a percent of revenue operating margin fell 1.4 points during the quarter on lower revenues with largely flat SG&amp;A and restructuring spending.
On a year-to-date basis operating margin is up 26% to $662 million.
And as a percent of revenue operating margin was up 2.3 points versus prior year.
SG&amp;A was $224.0 million or 0.8% higher during the quarter compared to quarter last year.
For the fourth quarter we expect SG&amp;A to be modestly below prior year spending of $266 million.
Q4 SG&amp;A will reflect the impact of 5 fewer calendar days in the quarter which equates to roughly $8 million in lower expenses and reflects the lapping of last year's recall expense of $12 million.
Favorability from these items will be partially offset by a moderate increase in spending in the fourth quarter to support our growth initiatives.
We continue to expect full year SG&amp;A spending will increase over last year as we invest in growth but will decrease as a percent of revenue.
Now moving on to our Financial Services segment on Slide 21.
HDFS operating profit was $72.4 million up 16.7% compared to last year's third quarter.
I would like to highlight 2 items on the year-over-year comparison.
First the provision for wholesale loan losses was unfavorable at $4.8 million driven by a reserve release for last year's third quarter.
Second the key driver of HDFS' operating growth of $10.4 million in the quarter was an improvement in net interest income.
This was largely driven by the lapping of prior year loss of $8.7 million on the early repurchase of a portion of our 6.8% medium-term notes in Q3 of 2011.
Based on continued strong credit loss performance and a more favorable cost of funds we now believe HDFS' full year operating profit will improve slightly over last year.
Now I will provide more detail on HDFS' operations on Slide 22.
During the third quarter HDFS retail motorcycle loan originations increased 2.5% or $15.6 million compared to the same period last year.
The increase was driven by growth in used motorcycle loan originations partially offset by a decline in new motorcycle loan originations consistent with lower retail sales in the U.S.
During the quarter our market share of new retail motorcycle lending was up slightly at 52.3%.
Originations in Q3 were approximately 80% prime.
Total finance receivables outstanding decreased 0.2% compared to a year ago primarily due to a declining retail portfolio.
Retail finance receivables outstanding decreased 1.5% compared to a year ago partially offset by wholesale finance receivables which were up 9.5% compared to last year.
We are very pleased with the improved retail delinquency rate and the credit loss -- retail credit losses compared to last year which you will see on Slide 23.
The 30-day delinquency rate for retail motorcycle loans at the end of the third quarter was 3.24% or 49 basis points better than the same date last year.
Annualized retail credit losses were at their lowest level in over 10 years.
For the third quarter retail credit losses came in at 65 basis points considerably lower than prior year of 111 basis points.
This favorable credit loss performance was driven by our continued strong underwriting collection and loss mitigation efforts as well as consumer behavior in managing their credit in the U.S.
While we continue to be disciplined in how we manage the loan portfolio and the overall business we have no assurance that the current consumer behavior will continue.
In fact we expect retail credit losses to increase over time due to customers taking on additional debt HDFS' efforts to find more prudently structured loan approvals in the near prime and subprime lending and lower recoveries resulting from lower charge-offs than prior periods.
We remain focused on enabling sales of Harley-Davidson motorcycles and prudently managing the business while providing an attractive return to Harley-Davidson Inc.
Now let's take a look at cash and liquidity on Slide 24.
You will see that at the end of the quarter we had $1.93 billion of cash and marketable securities.
In addition HDFS had $1.55 billion of available liquidity through bank credit and conduit facilities.
We currently have and intend to continue to maintain a minimum of 12 months of projected liquidity needs in cash and/or committed credit facilities.
We ended the quarter with higher than typical cash balances.
This was due to the timing of our funding activities.
During the quarter we took advantage of the very favorable debt markets and completed 2 transactions both which represent all-time low interest rates -- interest cost to HDFS.
First in July HDFS completed a $675 million asset-backed securitization at a weighted average interest rate of 0.81%.
And second in September HDFS completed the sale of $600 million of 3-year notes with an interest rate of 1.15%.
Through the fourth quarter we expect our cash balance to come down and be in line with our cash strategy to hold 12 months of projected liquidity in cash or committed credit facilities.
Additionally we established a $200 million Canadian conduit facility to more efficiently finance Canadian retail receivables and we renewed our $600 million U.S.
conduit facility.
During the third quarter we repurchased 1.9 million shares of Harley-Davidson stock for $85 million.
As we have stated returning value to our shareholders through increasing dividends and share repurchases is a top priority.
We will continue to evaluate opportunities to enhance value for our shareholders.
Now I'd like to highlight 2 items on Slide 25 which provide the remaining Harley-Davidson Inc.
financials.
First the company provided operating cash of $712.5 million during the first 9 months compared to $901.6 million provided in 2011.
The decrease in operating cash flow was primarily driven by an increase in working capital and an increase in HDFS wholesale receivables due to the timing of shipments in the third quarter.
The motorcycle business generated year-to-date operating cash of $496 million.
Second the effective tax rate was higher this quarter versus last year's third quarter which included a favorable settlement of an IRS audit as well as a favorable change in the Wisconsin income tax law associated with certain net operating losses.
On Slide 26 you'll see that for 2012 we continue to expect motorcycle shipments to be 245 000 to 250 000 motorcycles on a worldwide basis up 5% to 7% from 2011.
During the third quarter (sic) [fourth quarter] we expect to ship 44 500 to 49 500 units which is down 2% to 12% compared to last year as we move production closer to seasonal demand.
We expect fourth quarter gross margin percent to be roughly in line with last year's fourth quarter gross margin.
As we expect Q4 gross margin percent will include productivity gains and improved mix which will be offset by unfavorable foreign currency and significantly lower production levels as compared to last year.
We expect Q4 production to be down versus prior year for the following reasons: First we plan to implement flexible production at York in the first quarter of 2013; second we will not repeat the build of 7 000 additional motorcycles in the fourth quarter of 2011 to support the ERP launch; and third because there will be 5 fewer days in the fiscal Q4 calendar compared to last year's fourth quarter.
We continue to expect full year 2012 gross margin of 34.75% to 35.75%.
Finally we continue to expect 2012 capital expenditures to be $190 million to $210 million which includes approximately $35 million of capital related restructuring.
John let me just clarify quickly.
You said that we're shipping 44 500 to 49 500 in the third quarter it's the fourth quarter.
In the fourth quarter sorry.
That was Slide 26.
On Slide 26.
Thank you.
As we look back on the third quarter of 2012 our overall results were in line with our expectations.
We exited the third quarter with good sales momentum in the U.S.
and slightly higher retail inventory than the prior year.
We posted strong international retail sales despite challenging world economies.
We kicked off our 110th Anniversary year.
We launched an exciting lineup of 2013 model year motorcycles.
HDFS continues to perform very well and during the quarter we repurchased 1.9 million shares of our stock.
Today we are thrilled that our ERP launch in York is nearly complete.
It's a huge step in our progress towards transforming to world-class manufacturing.
We remain focused on executing against our strategies as we complete the final activities in our manufacturing restructuring continue to transform our organization and grow our business while delivering strong margins strong returns and value to our shareholders.
Thank you for your continued confidence and investment in Harley-Davidson.
And now let's open the call up to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Ed Aaron of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I apologize if I missed this but are you still committed to undershipping retail sales in 2012 and then I have just a follow-up after that.
Yes Ed.
We would expect that on a full year basis our dealers in the U.S.
will retail more than we ship by a slight amount.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just as far as kind of Q3 is concerned leaving some sales on the table just given the production September production issues did that meaningfully affect your mix of outreach versus core customers since core riders tend to be more inclined to buy touring bikes? And then secondly when do you expect the lost sales to be recovered? I'm just trying to understand if that business comes back in Q4 or if maybe it sort of just gets pushed into next year? Well as we talked about retail sales in the quarter were certainly affected by the low retail inventories.
And basically we had retail sales down in July August and the first part of September and the reason being is inventories were extremely low during that period of time.
As inventories at York came back certainly retail sales came back as well.
Ed you had asked about the type of mix in the system.
The answer is yes the mix skewed more toward outreach customers in the third quarter.
So a lot of our touring bikes are sold -- well some of them are sold to outreach as well.
Actually the Street Glide is the top-selling bike to our outreach youth as well as women.
Most of the touring bikes are to core customers.
So that would have an impact.
We did see sales to outreach customers outstrip that of core in the third quarter.
As Keith had mentioned we've seen that for the last 3 quarters.
And when we talk about the sales they were clearly affected by retail inventory and let me kind of put a little bit more to that.
If you look at the 13 weeks within the quarter and you look at our product of York the bikes we make out of York in the inventory.
Of those 13 weeks 11 of those weeks were below prior year levels.
And remember a year ago we said that inventory in the third quarter was very tight and lower than desired.
Of those 11 weeks Ed 9 of them were down double digit.
And touring bikes which has been our hottest seller and the most in demand and the most constrained inventory fell at one point during the quarter to over 40% down.
So clearly the pump ran dry in the third quarter.
And it took us since the time we started reshipping in the third week of August about 8 weeks to catch up on inventory at York.
But once inventory started to approach year-ago levels especially of York product we saw retail sales really come back.
Your next question comes from Sharon Zackfia of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I think on several of the Analyst Days Keith you've talked about kind of getting back to Harley's roots in innovation and kind of how that would impact models in years going forward.
And I guess this model year changeover it looks more like tweaks to existing models rather than what I would call real innovation.
So I was hoping you could give us some insight to what we should be expecting in the next 2 or 3 years and whether you think that innovation will be more critical to the U.S.
consumer or more geared towards the international consumer? Okay.
That's a great question.
But first of all let me just sort of set the backdrop again.
So the year is 2009 sales are off 40% revenues are down significantly.
And so we've got a reduced budget around spending in the whole business including product development.
So that's number one.
Number two is we are taking the reduced amount of money that we're spending on product development and we're developing products for Buell MV Agusta as well as Harley.
So I think you can sort of get the idea that we were sort of constraining the amount of development innovation and new products that were pertinent to the Harley-Davidson brand number one.
And you lay over that the fact that at the time 4 of these new products that you're talking about which are the new innovative products not just the tweaks or the sort of the model refreshes it was about 5- to 5.5-year product development process.
So 2009 that takes us out to 2014 and 1/2 before you would see any new products coming through.
But remember that we were constrained on what we were developing in that time.
So what we've done is in addition to focusing strictly on the Harley-Davidson brand by getting out of Buell selling MV Agusta et cetera putting more money into product development we've also shortened the development time through a lot of really hard diligent work.
And so the answer to your question is if you think about the timeframe of the new product development process being late 2010 2011 we're into the 2015 timeframe before we really start to see a lot of these products with the new innovation that are focused on international markets outreach customers and core customers.
And we do have products in development that are exciting that I think and we all believe will inspire every one of those markets that we just mentioned.
And just so you know Sharon this is one of our biggest frustrations in the company.
Because we would like to have these products here today.
But given all the things that I just mentioned it just simply isn't possible.
All I can tell you is and while we don't talk about specific products that are in development all I can tell you is I think that we our employees here I think we're more excited today about the array of products that we have under development that we're going to be bringing to market than maybe we've ever been in the history of our company.
Your next question comes from Tim Conder of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> John I just wanted to hit on the inefficiencies.
As you mentioned you worked a little bit of extra unexpected overtime and you're looking for a $32 million to $35 million.
As you wrap up some on the restructurings looking into next year should we see those inefficiencies year-over-year largely drop off? I know there may be some residuals but any color you can give us from that perspective? And then in the quarter here your inventories were up which is just a little confusing at the company level.
Just maybe walk us through the whys of that portion.
Okay Tim with regards to the temporary inefficiencies again these are things that are important to our transformation but from an accounting standpoint can't be included in restructuring expense.
And we expect this year for them to be $32 million to $35 million.
And last year they were $32 million.
Next year as the restructuring ends we will start to see these dissipate over the next 2 years.
And so we would see call it 1/2 of them fall off next year and then the other 1/2 in 2014.
The second question is with regards to inventories and inventories on a year-over-year basis were up a bit.
And that's driven by a couple of things.
One our related business' inventory is up in particular on General Merchandise.
And remember we entered the year in the third quarter with our new 110th Anniversary product.
So that's driving inventories up as we supply the world with those highly-desired products.
As well as inventory is up a little bit in international finished goods motorcycles roughly 1 000 units.
And we've had strong sales in international in the third quarter.
Tim let me -- this is Keith.
I just want to add something here too because I know there's this question about inefficiencies et cetera in York and I just want to make sure that I'm clear about what we're doing there.
As you know I've personally been involved in many new systems implementations.
Not just SAP but Microsoft and -- I mean not Microsoft but PMFG Pro et cetera over the years and I have never seen an implementation that has gone even remotely as well as what's happened in this company.
I mean it's absolutely a tribute to all of our employees the focus not only of our employees but also the folks from SAP and other consultants that were involved in the process.
And I would say that on a scale of 1 to 10 with 10 being an absolute perfect launch we were at 9.2.
And we had some issues certainly coming out of the launch that caused issues to slow down production.
Our folks have worked hard and diligently to fix those as we've gone along a very methodical and focused initiative and effort.
And we're beyond that.
And our run rates are where they need to be and there's only upside in our manufacturing plants going forward.
Your next question comes from Craig Kennison of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones.
Did the delayed model year 2013 launch impact international demand in the same way as it did in the U.S.? And could you also address used bike prices? Yes the pushed out model year would have some effect on international.
But remember the distribution system is a little bit different in international.
We have pools of inventory in our international markets.
But as we delay the model year launch it did push out -- I'm sorry as we retime the model year launch which is now going to be in August in the future as well is that just pushed out the shipments of those new models and it takes about a month for them to get into market.
So yes it would push out sales in international markets as well.
Yes? Used bike prices.
And I'm sorry used bike prices.
From the fourth quarter of last year used bike prices have been very stable and the gap between used and new bikes have been stable in the first second and third quarter -- I'm sorry in the fourth quarter of last year first and second.
Also during those 3 quarters we've seen used grow faster than -- I'm sorry new grow faster than used.
We did see a reversal in that in the first 2 months of the third quarter where used grew faster than retail -- I'm sorry new.
And that was because new fell and we continue to sell a fair amount of used bikes.
But overall we feel very good about the gap between new and used bike prices and do not think that that's going to hinder us in growing new bike sales into the future.
Your next question comes from Felicia Hendrix of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Regarding the cadence of the retail sales in the quarter obviously very positive and I understand the alignment of distribution [ph] there.
But there has been an argument that September picked up also because of pent-up demand.
So I'm just wondering if you can provide any color of what you've been seeing lately in October and maybe your expectation for the rest of the year? Well we clearly saw a pickup in retail sales in the last 3 weeks of September.
And again as I had mentioned as the York inventory in particular got close to year-ago levels sales began to certainly rise.
Felicia we feel great about the brand.
We feel great about the brand's strength.
To tease out what piece is what it's really hard to do.
Clearly our retail sales during the quarter were affected by lack of product availability.
When the availability was restored retail sales came back quite strong and we exited the quarter with a fair amount of momentum.
And when we look forward it's also hard to tell.
In the first quarter we pulled sales into the first quarter given the good weather.
And in the third quarter we may have pushed some sales out of the third quarter and we may pick those up in the fourth quarter or people may wait until spring.
But the point is is that the brand is still very strong.
Our market share position is still very strong and there's a lot of demand for the product.
And we don't provide a future look at retail sales.
So right now we feel good about where we're at on a year-to-date basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
And then I was wondering if you could just help us think through this surge capacity and how to model for it.
Should we assume that the historical quarterly changes in the -- I'm sorry the historical sequential quarterly changes in dealer inventories declines or even gets close to 0? And then you said that the surge will be up in the first quarter but is it -- how should we think about that in terms of timing within the first quarter like should we credit our first quarter model for that? Okay.
Let's take a step back on everything that we're trying to do here.
Is given the fact that we've now got new capabilities from a manufacturing perspective and that's what the restructuring has been all about we've got the capability to produce much more flexibly and produce when our customers want the product.
So this year 2012 we took the opportunity and we shipped in the first half more motorcycles than we retailed.
That is the first time that that's happened in well over a decade.
Typically what we do is retail about 57% of our year's production and we ship in only 50%.
So in 2012 we took the first step toward realizing our new capability and we shipped in more bikes in the first half.
A lot of those came from inventory.
The next step is what's going to take place at York in the first half of next year.
And we will now produce the same way that we ship.
So we'll be able to -- and be capable of producing a lot more in the first half as we bring on flexible workers and get more capacity utilization out of our facilities.
And what that will do is have somewhat of an impact on gross margin between quarters.
But next year we would expect to link our shipments and our productions pretty tightly.
The third piece of it is making sure that inventories are also in line with our new flexible manufacturing capability.
And as we look to next year we would expect to put more inventory in the dealer channel in the first second and third quarter and take some out of the fourth quarter of next year.
Just like we are this year and that's because Kansas City will also be moving to flexible production in the beginning of 2014.
I'm going to jump back in here John because I'm excited.
And I'm going to say it again I've been in this thing for 38 years.
I have never seen an effort like what we've had in this company in the last couple of years to get us repositioned in manufacturing for the future.
And it's now our labor unions that have stepped up and in spite of very difficult changes have been all-in.
Our employees all-in our leadership.
And I mean what's been accomplished here is exceptional.
And I'm just going to keep saying that because we're -- 2 years ago we were on a call with the same folks here we were asked about the restructuring and in spite of the unbelievable amount of work that needed to be done what we said was "Coming out of 2012 we would be completed." Right? Yes.
And that's exactly what happened.
And there's been some puts and takes along the way as you might expect but it's absolutely awesome.
Your next question comes from James Hardiman of Longbow Research.
A question on gross margins.
You said you expect that to be flat in the fourth quarter.
I think all the color that you gave on that front was really helpful.
But that basically gets me I guess at best to the very low end of your guidance for the full year if I'm doing the math correctly.
I guess versus where you were coming into the year how have gross margins trended? It seems like maybe a little bit worse? Did that ultimately get affected by the production shortages we saw in the fourth quarter? But ultimately how should I think about that? Overall gross margin again is expected to be 34.75% to 35.75% James.
As we exit the third quarter we're sitting at 35.6% which is toward the high end of the range.
But you got to look historically at our gross margin percents and the fourth quarter is always our lowest gross margin quarter.
And it's typically down anywhere between 2 and 5 percentage points from the previous 3 quarters' run rate and next year is no different.
The fourth quarter will fall off and that's because of the fact that we produce much less.
And as we look at the fourth quarter of this year the growth that we've been experiencing through the first 3 quarters of this year which is up 1.6 points of gross margin we don't expect to be there because of the fact that production will be significantly lower and foreign currency will be lower.
But again we do expect to be in the 34.75% to 35.75%.
You're next question comes from Patrick Archambault of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess I just have one housekeeping and maybe one slightly longer question.
You went through the temporary John you know what you expected for the year for the temporary inefficiencies and what you had done year-to-date or I'm sorry for the third quarter.
Can you just remind me what that implies for the fourth? Just one little housekeeping item there.
And then second question is on international inventories.
You've been shipping I believe if my numbers are right ahead of sales for the first 3 quarters of the year and correct me if I'm wrong on that.
How do you see the balance between shipments and retail sales playing out maybe for the fourth quarter and then beyond the fourth quarter? Are you still building a lot of inventory because you're opening a lot of dealerships there? Or should we expect the sales and the shipments to be sort of similar on a go-forward basis? Thanks Patrick.
Temporary inefficiencies I think was the first question.
And we expect temporary inefficiencies of $5 million to $8 million in the fourth quarter.
Secondly was a question on international inventory.
I think as we ended the quarter we're up about 800 units in international inventory based on one increasing dealerships; and two the growth that we expect out of international.
International is no different than the U.S.
We're going to continue to aggressively manage supply in line with demand and we feel very good about our overall inventories in the international arena.
Again they're up slightly in the third quarter as were the domestic inventories up about 3 100 units in the quarter.
Your next question comes from Rod Lache of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> It's Pat Nolan on for Rod.
Most of my questions have been answered so just 2 follow-ups.
On the surge capacity I think it's pretty clear that you'll be able to take down your inventories on the corporate level based on being able to clearly match production to your shipments.
But on a full year basis at the dealer level would you expect that you would grow dealer inventories in 2013? No.
We would expect dealer inventories to be down a little bit in the fourth quarter.
But Pat we expect them to be higher throughout the first 3 quarters.
And so we've been working through limited supply of motorcycles and we would expect to replenish those in the first second and third quarters.
But given the fact that our fourth quarter -- is only about 17% of retail sales happens in the fourth quarter and 22% in the first quarter we don't need as much inventory sitting in dealers.
And when you have inventory that you don't need sitting in dealerships it's inevitably going to end up being the wrong inventory.
So that's what we're doing in terms of our flexible manufacturing is we're going to wait longer to read the market better and to put inventory into the dealerships when they need it and in time for the spring selling season.
So ultimately we would expect dealer inventory to come down slightly this year 2012 and slightly in 2013.
We're not talking huge moves but it will be down a little bit because we have the capability of making the product when the customers want them.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And on retail sales in the quarter I think it makes a lot of sense that you're inventory constrained but it's a little bit surprising that the overall industry was down 5%.
I know you're a high 50% of the industry.
But I'm surprised the rest of the industry wasn't positive in the quarter.
Could you maybe give some color about what's going on within the industry? I would've thought with what's going on in the credit availability that would've helped demand but it seems that the overall industry was kind of weak in the quarter as well.
I think the first comment that you made Pat is the most important.
Is we're at 57% of the market.
And with us being down 5.2% used bikes overall industry is going to fall a fair amount as well.
If you look at total demand overall industry through August is up about 6.5% so very healthy.
We're up about 9% in total demand.
So the industry the competition is still selling a lot more bikes.
They're still selling though more used is growing faster than their new.
And again we hit an inflection point about 3 4 quarters ago and they haven't reached that point yet.
So the competition is selling a lot of motorcycles more of them being new than used.
Used than new.
I'm sorry more of them used than new.
Your next question comes from Jaime Katz of Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> The first question I have is you guys talked a little bit about how you're expanding the international dealer base but can you talk about how you feel about the domestic dealer base and whether or not you're looking to continue to kind of weed out any sort of underperformers or improve them? And then also any insight on what you've had to do to keep EMEA sales decent or robust however you'd like to look at that? Let me take the first part of that John on the dealers.
Jaime we've over the last 2.5 probably years we recognized early on particularly in light of the fact that sales had fallen from the 2006-2007 timeframe significantly that our dealer network was particularly in the U.S.
was somewhat under stress financially and that we probably had too many dealers and particularly we were over-dealered in '09 or '10 or '11 whatever it was major metropolitan markets.
So we worked extremely hard with our dealer network and have been successful in probably closing maybe 100 or so dealer points.
86.
86 okay.
So in that timeframe.
So given sort of where the market is today and that restructured dealer network we feel pretty confident today that we're appropriately dealered in the U.S.
Now I don't know what that means a year from now or 2 years from now but that's something that we have to continually watch and monitor and make sure that we're working hard to maximize our dealer network because it's extremely important that we have a financially sound dealer network so that that translates to every day a great customer experience.
And we do know because we have access to all of our dealers' financials that there has been significant improvement over the last couple of years in terms of dealer profitability et cetera.
On the other hand we also knew that there was untapped potential in the international markets and not just in the developed markets but also in the emerging markets.
And so as early as 2009 we said we were going to add 100 to 150 dealerships between then and 2014 in strategic areas.
We've been doing that.
We're on track.
And it's paying dividends in terms of better penetration in the international markets and getting greater access to the brand for the customers around the world that are desirous of participating in the Harley-Davidson brand.
And the other question that you asked was on EMEA sales.
We're clearly actively managing the situation.
It is very volatile and we saw sales down in the first and second quarter we're pleased to see them up in the third quarter.
But the team there is actively managing from an inventory standpoint and our pipeline distribution system helps that to make sure that we've got the right motorcycles at the right place and the motorcycles out where they're selling.
And again we have got the tale of 2 markets in Europe.
The north seems to be continuing to grow very well and the south is very soft.
So they're working on making sure that inventory is in the right place.
They continue to fuel the emerging markets and adding dealerships and filling out in emerging markets.
And then finally allocating overall resources and rationalizing where appropriate.
So the situation is difficult we don't expect it to go away.
We expect it to continue for some time and the team there is doing an absolutely fantastic job of managing the situation the best they can.
Your next question comes from Joe Hovorka of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
First just a follow-up on what James was asking about the gross margin.
It doesn't seem like the fourth quarter guidance and in the full year would be [indiscernible].
If you use the -- the low end of your production guidance would get you to about 34.75% in gross margin if gross margin was flat quarter to quarter to the extent that production would go up on that you'd be below that for the full year.
So it would seem that it would have to be up in the fourth quarter to hit your full year guidance.
Well on a weighted average basis we will be roughly in line with Q4's last year's guidance and that will equate to a gross margin of between on a full year basis of 34.75% to 35.75%.
Your last question comes from Robin Farley of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
First is the last couple of Q1s you've made pension contributions around $200 million each year.
I was wondering if you have a sense yet of how much of your cash may go to that in Q1 of 2013? And then my second question is just trying to get clarification on your comment about the uptick in sales in the month of September versus how the full quarter came in.
And you said the model year the retiming hurt sales early in the quarter and then you mentioned this momentum in September are you suggesting the increase in September is more than just a model year shift? In other words are you thinking or should we be thinking about it as an inflection point? Or are you saying that was the model year shift that helped September after hurting August? And then the pension question.
Okay Robin.
From a pension standpoint we haven't marked the assets.
So what happens in the pension accounting is is we will mark at the end of the year and given where current discount rates are we would expect the liability to increase as we exit this year because the discount is a huge driver of that liability.
At the end of the year we'll evaluate what pension liability looks like what we're obligated to do.
Right now our pension plans are well-funded.
We feel very good about where we're at but we do expect that liability to increase.
And at that time we'll evaluate it making sure that we keep a very strong and healthy balance sheet.
And at that time we'll decide if we need to contribute more funds.
The second is the uptick in September is -- the majority or -- it's hard to segment how much is due to the underlying momentum and demand for the brand versus some of the sales that were pushed out of July and August into later September.
So there's no way for us to exactly quantify it.
What we do see is that we've -- in the last 3 weeks of September in particular as York inventory or product of York inventories came back to year-ago levels we saw very strong momentum as we exited the quarter in the back half of September.
There are no further questions queued up at this time.
I turn the conference over to Ms.
Amy Giuffre for closing remarks.
I want to thank everyone for your time this morning.
We certainly appreciate your investment and interest in Harley-Davidson.
Thanks John and the audio and visual support for today's call will be available at harley-davidson.com.
The audio can also be accessed until November 6 by calling (404) 537-3406 or (855) 859-2056 in the U.S.
The PIN number is 32462414#.
If you have any other questions just give us a call at (414) 343-8002.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Sarah and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Harley-Davidson Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Amy Giuffre Director of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Giuffre you may begin.
Thank you Sarah and welcome to Harley-Davidson's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
The audio for today's call is being webcast live on harley-davidson.com.
The supporting slides can be accessed on our website by clicking on Company Investor Relations then Events and Presentations.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks that could cause actual results to be materially different.
Those risks include among others matters we have noted in our latest earnings release and filings with the SEC.
Harley-Davidson disclaims any obligation to update information in this call.
This morning you'll hear from Harley-Davidson's CEO Keith Wandell; CFO John Olin; and President of Harley-Davidson Financial Services Larry Hund.
Then we'll open the call for your questions.
So let's get started.
Keith? Thank you Amy.
And good morning and thanks for joining us today as we review our 2012 results and look ahead to next year.
We appreciate very much your interest in Harley-Davidson.
Our entire team takes pride in what we achieved last year.
We did what we set out to do: driving improvements on many fronts and growing the business and shareholder value.
EPS was up 16.7% for the full year and new Harley-Davidson motorcycle retail sales grew 6.2% worldwide.
We completed the highly successful launch of the ERP production system at our York plant and shares of Harley-Davidson stock rose more than 25% in value during the year once again outpacing the S&amp;P 500.
These are just some of the latest proof points of the vast improvements of Harley-Davidson's operations and performance since embarking on our strategy of transformation in 2009.
Today Harley-Davidson is leaner more agile and more responsive to our customers and the changing marketplace than ever before.
And we continue to move aggressively to raise our performance to new levels.
All of this is only possible through the efforts and dedication of our employees our dealers and suppliers.
They are doing a truly outstanding job and together working as one team and moving in one direction we are driving performance and delivering for our customers and all stakeholders.
As we enter 2013 the restructuring of our production operations is largely behind us.
The rollout of the ERP system at York in the third quarter went incredibly well and is beginning to yield results.
Day by day we are improving our ability to supply dealers with the mix of motorcycles they need for their customers and in a more timely manner.
The ramp up of surge production in York has also gone well since we launched it at the start of the year.
We are on target with our run rates safety and quality and have successfully integrated more than 400 seasonal employees to support surge at York and our Wisconsin plants which supply York.
And let me just note that we're extremely grateful to all of our full time production employees who have been welcoming and helpful to the seasonal workforce.
At Kansas City we continued to lay the groundwork for the launch of surge production in 2014.
Turning to retail.
New Harley-Davidson motorcycle sales grew solidly in 2012 fueled by exceptional products and retail experiences.
In the U.S.
retail new Harley-Davidson motorcycle sales grew 6.6% market share grew 1.5 points in the U.S.
heavyweight market to 57.2%.
Sales to U.S.
outreach customers grew faster than to core customers in 2012 and Harley-Davidson continued its market share leadership in all of our outreach demographic segments.
We also continued to grow internationally as the result of numerous improvements in our operations and distribution networks over the last few years.
We opened 31 international dealerships in 18 countries in 2012 including Malaysia Russia Turkey and Bolivia.
New Harley-Davidson motorcycle retail sales were up 39.2% in Latin America in 2012 and beat the old unit volume record set in 2008 by more than 25%.
December was the best month ever for unit sales in Latin America.
In the Asia-Pacific region retail sales were up 14.3% and were the highest ever for us in a number of countries including Australia Korea China and India.
Sales also grew in Japan which is our largest market in the region.
And while we are pleased with our achievements in 2012 and over the last several years more important is the road ahead.
We expect to build on our strategy of bringing exceptional products to market producing them in ways that are more responsive to the market and providing personal customized retail experiences.
Each of these things is key to delivering on our purpose as a company which is to fulfill dreams of personal freedom for people around the world.
In 2013 and beyond we plan to further leverage our manufacturing capabilities so that we can increasingly build the exact motorcycles our customers want and deliver them when and where they want them.
And we will continue to raise the bar by bringing great motorcycles to market in a shorter amount of time.
We will also build on our competitive advantage in financial services parts and accessories MotorClothes apparel and general merchandise.
Going forward we will continue to refine our retail 2020 strategy which is all about strengthening Harley-Davidson's retail support systems dealer capabilities and distribution channels thus providing for a personalized customer experience every time everywhere every day.
Through all of these efforts we believe we are in a sound position to further expand sales with outreach and core customers in the U.S.
and to continue to grow internationally.
2013 is shaping up to be another exciting year for Harley-Davidson especially with our 110th Anniversary celebrations that are happening throughout the year and we invite everyone to join in.
So let me wrap up by thanking you again for your interest and investment.
2012 was a watershed year for Harley-Davidson and all of us at the company are working hard to carry this momentum forward.
Now let me turn it over to John Olin.
Thanks Keith and good morning everyone.
I'll review the financial results starting with the fourth quarter on Slide 10.
During the quarter Harley-Davidson Inc.
consolidated revenue was down 1.1% behind a 7.2% decrease in shipments of Harley-Davidson motorcycles.
Our fourth quarter income from continuing operations improved to $70.6 million an increase of $16 million or 29.3%.
Similarly diluted earnings per share rose to $0.31 per share up 29.2% from the year ago quarter which was $0.24 per share.
Operating income from the Motorcycle segment was $53.1 million up 49.4% compared to last year's fourth quarter.
The strong increase in Motorcycle business was driven by lower restructuring spending and a higher gross margin as compared to last year.
Operating income at Harley-Davidson Financial Services was up 10.9% behind higher net interest income and improved credit loss performance.
We are very pleased with the fourth quarter results and our continued progress against our goal strategies.
Now let's take a look at retail sales on Slide 11.
Overall worldwide retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles were up 7.5% in the fourth quarter.
For the full year worldwide retail sales were up 6.2% compared to 2011.
This reflects the strength of the Harley-Davidson brand and appeal of our motorcycle model years 2012 and 2013 worldwide dealer efforts and a continued investment in growth opportunities around the world.
Now let's take a look at the U.S.
market on Slide 12.
Retail sales in the quarter were up 8.4% compared to last year's fourth quarter despite a challenging economic environment for consumers.
Retail sales in the U.S.
were driven by strong product appeal success of outreach efforts and slightly improved product availability for most of the quarter.
For the full year U.S.
retail sales were up 6.6%.
Market share in the fourth quarter strengthened 1.6 points versus prior year to 60.9% and full year share finished up 1.5 points to 57.2% another record year of market share.
Finally retail inventory in the U.S.
fell from the end of last year by approximately 1 200 units.
We reduced shipments in preparation for our flexible manufacturing capability which allows us to begin surging production with seasonal demand in the first quarter of this year.
We also expect retail inventory to be down at the end of 2013 as we prepare for manufacturing surge capability at our Kansas City facility in the first half of 2014.
On Slide 13 you'll see retail sales in international markets for the quarter grew 6.3% driven by strong growth in the Latin America and Asia Pacific regions.
For the full year international retail sales were up 5.6%.
During the fourth quarter the Latin America region was up 23.5% driven by Brazil and Mexico.
As we exited 2012 we had 14 dealerships in Brazil and are on track to continue to grow this important market into the future.
Retail sales in the Asia Pacific region were up 14.8% in the quarter driven by double-digit sales growth in Australia and emerging markets.
Japan saw a strong growth despite a challenging economic environment and intense competitive activity.
The EMEA region was down 3.3% for the quarter compared to 2011 as we continued to see softness in the Southern European markets.
For the full year retail sales in the EMEA region were down 3.0%.
Market share in Europe through November was 13.3% down only slightly to the prior year despite the economic concerns in that market.
We expect continued volatility and pressure on sales in Europe in 2013.
Canada was down 13.8% in the quarter compared to the same period in 2011 which benefited from a year end sales boost prior to a sales tax change effective January 2012.
For the full year Canada retail sales were up 0.7%.
International expansion especially in emerging markets is one of our 3 core areas of investment for future growth.
During the quarter 15 dealerships were opened in 12 different countries.
Since 2009 93 new dealerships have opened great progress toward our goal of 100 to 150 by the end of 2014.
On Slide 14 you'll see wholesale shipments of Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the quarter were down compared to last year as we prepared for surge manufacturing which we initiated at York this month.
Shipments were within our expected shipment range of 44 500 to 49 500 motorcycles.
Temporary production constraints at York eased during the fourth quarter allowing us a higher mix of Touring motorcycles compared to last year.
International shipments as a percent of total were up only slightly compared to 2011 reflecting the tough market conditions in Europe.
Given that our European business was down in 2012 and the economic concerns that remain Europe for the near term we no longer believe that we will meet our goal of international retail sales exceeding 40% of total retail sales by 2014.
However we continue to believe international retail sales will grow at a faster rate than domestic sales through 2014.
On Slide 15 you'll see revenue for the Motorcycles and Related Product segment was down 1.5% in the fourth quarter and up 6% for the full year behind strong growth from all our businesses during the year.
Motorcycle revenue was down 2.6% behind the 7.2% decrease in shipments during the fourth quarter and up 5.9% behind the 6.2% increase in shipments for the full year.
For the full year the average motorcycle revenue per unit decreased $44 from the prior year primarily driven by unfavorable currency exchange partially offset by higher pricing and favorable mix.
On average our key currencies during 2012 were weaker against the U.S.
dollar by approximately 6% compared to last year.
Parts and Accessories sales were up 0.2% for the quarter and up 5.3% for the full year compared to 2011.
General Merchandise revenue was up 6.8% in the fourth quarter and up 9.2% for the full year.
Turning to restructuring on Slide 16.
In 2012 restructuring costs were $28 million and we experienced approximately $33 million in temporary inefficiencies.
We achieved savings of $280 million set our targets along the way and had successfully transformed our manufacturing operations and continued to advance our product development capabilities.
In 2013 we expect to substantially ramp up the current restructuring activities.
During 2013 our efforts will focus on completing operating system training in Wisconsin and Kansas City existing our Australian wheel and hub manufacturing operations and preparing for surge manufacturing in Kansas City in 2014.
We expect these activities will result in approximately $13 million of restructuring costs and approximately $17 million of temporary inefficiencies.
Upon completion of those restructuring activities at the end of 2013 we expect to achieve a full annual savings of approximately $320 million starting in 2014 with expected total costs -- restructuring costs of approximately $495 million.
Since 2009 we have been intensely focused on improving our cost structure and transforming the business to be stronger more flexible and more profitable.
As we near the completion of this restructuring we will continue our focus on improving retail capabilities and strengthening world-class distribution channels and product development capabilities.
We have established a culture of continuous improvement and we'll continue to look for ways to operate in the most efficient and profitable manner.
On Slide 17 you'll see gross margin in the quarter was 31.8% which was 0.6 percentage points higher than last year.
Gross margin for the quarter was driven by a flexible favorable mix behind increased Touring production favorable pricing and modestly lower raw material costs compared to last year.
As anticipated foreign currency exchange was unfavorable behind a stronger U.S.
dollar.
Finally manufacturing costs were flat to prior year as restructuring savings were largely offset by loss absorption due to significantly lower production in the quarter.
Full year gross margin was 34.8% which was up 1.4 percentage points from the prior year.
Gross margin finished at the low end of our expected range of 34.75% to 35.75% primarily a result of key foreign currencies devaluing quite significantly beginning in the second quarter of 2012.
The adverse financial impact of the devaluation was somewhat tempered in 2012 due to our currency hedges.
We continue -- we expect continued unfavorable currency exchange in 2013 as our currency hedges that were initiated at higher exchange rates roll off in 2013.
On Slide 18 operating margin as a percent of revenue for the fourth quarter was 5.3% up 1.8 percentage points compared to last year's fourth quarter.
Operating margin for the quarter was favorably impacted by higher gross margin and lower year-over-year restructuring costs partially offset by a slightly higher SG&amp;A.
While we expected SG&amp;A for the quarter to be modestly below last year it actually finished $1.3 million higher than last year.
For the full year SG&amp;A increased $49.4 million from 2011 primarily as a result of investment in our future growth.
As a percent of revenue full year SG&amp;A decreased slightly versus the prior year.
We continue to expect SG&amp;A spending will increase on a year-over-year basis in 2013 and 2014 as we continue to invest in growth initiatives but decrease as a percent of revenue through 2014.
Now moving on to our Financial Services segment on Slide 19.
In the fourth quarter HDFS's operating profit increased $6.2 million or 10.9% compared to last year.
The 3 key drivers of fourth quarter results were: First the provision for wholesale credit losses was $2.6 million lower in the fourth quarter of 2012 primarily due to favorable wholesale portfolio performance; Second net interest income was up $2.2 million resulting from lower interest expense which was driven by a favorable cost of funds and lower debt levels; finally the all other category was up $3.9 million driven primarily by the strength in our insurance business.
On a full year basis HDFS posted an operating profit of $284.7 million an increase of $15.9 million or 5.9% compared to 2011.
We are very pleased with the performance of the Financial Services business.
We believe HDFS's 2013 operating income will be modestly lower than 2012 as the business benefited from $17 million of 2012 credit loss reserve releases which will not repeat in 2013.
In addition we also expect modestly higher credit losses in 2013 due to changing consumer behavior HDFS's funding of additionally prudently restructured loans in the near and subprime segments and lower recoveries resulting from lower charge-offs in prior periods.
Now Larry will provide more detail on HDFS's operations on Slide 20.
Larry? Thanks John.
And good morning.
During the fourth quarter HDFS retail motorcycle loan originations increased 17.6% or $61.5 million compared to the same period last year.
The increase was driven by higher new motorcycle loan originations behind the strong increase in retail sales and a 2.8 percentage point increase in market share.
Used motorcycle loan originations also increased compared to last year.
For the full year HDFS retail financing market share of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles sold in the U.S.
was 50.9% flat compared to 2011.
The overall loan portfolio was solid comprised of profitable loans funded in both the prime and subprime segments.
In 2012 approximately 80% of our new loan originations were prime.
At year end 88% of the total portfolio was comprised of loans originated after underwriting changes HDFS made in January 2009.
With the higher level of receivables originated prior to the start of the economic downturn rolling off the books finance receivables outstanding decreased 0.4% compared to a year ago.
This decline in receivables pool reflects the lower U.S.
retail sales due to downturn that we expect will continue to impact HDFS net interest income through the first half of 2013.
Moving on to credit performance on Slide 21.
The 30-day delinquency rate for retail motorcycle loans at December 31 2012 was 3.94% or 9 basis points higher than 2011.
I want to point out that 2011 and 2012 are the only years where HDFS has finished the year with a 30-day delinquency rate below 4.5% so credit quality remained in good shape.
Annual retail credit losses improved by 41 basis points to 0.79% in 2012 compared to 2011 driven by the impact of changes in underwriting and collections as well as a lower frequency of loss.
This is the lowest level of retail credit losses at HDFS in over 10 years.
A portion of this loss improvement is due to recoveries in loans written off in prior years.
Given the strong credit performance of loans originated since 2009 we expect lower levels of recoveries in future periods.
We are pleased with the progress at HDFS in 2012.
During the year we maintained a strong liquidity position reduced our cost of funds and delivered strong profitability.
We remain focused on enabling sales of Harley-Davidson motorcycles while providing an attractive return to Harley-Davidson Inc.
A recent example of this is the $185 million dividend HDFS paid to Harley-Davidson Inc.
earlier this month.
Now let me turn it back to John.
Thanks Larry.
Now let's take a look at cash and liquidity on Slide 22.
You will see at the end of the quarter we had $1.2 billion of cash and marketable securities which includes the impact of the repayment of a $400 million HDFS Medium Term Note.
In addition HDFS had $1.66 billion of available liquidity through bank credit and conduit facilities.
We currently have and intend to continue to maintain a minimum of 12 months of projected liquidity needs in cash and/or committed credit facilities.
Earlier this month there were 2 significant transactions related to cash.
Larry just mentioned the dividend HDFS paid to H-D Inc.
We also made $175 million contribution to our qualified pension plans.
This contribution reduces the $221 million Q4 2012 increase in our pension and postretirement liability which resulted from the discount rate assumption changing from 5.3% to 4.2%.
And I'm also very pleased to report that during the fourth quarter we repurchased approximately 1.2 million shares of Harley-Davidson stock for $53.4 million.
As we have stated returning value to our shareholders through increasing dividends and share repurchases is its top priority.
We will continue to evaluate opportunities to enhance value for our shareholders.
Now I'll review the remaining HDFS Inc.
financials on Slide 23.
I'd like to highlight 2 items on this slide.
First with regards to continuing operations the company generated operating cash of $793.1 million during 2012 even after a $200 million contribution to our pension plans in January of last year.
And second our full year effective tax rate from continuing operations was 35.1% compared to 30.9% in 2011.
The 2011 tax rate benefited from a change in Wisconsin tax laws associated with certain net operating losses the favorable settlement of an IRS audit and the impact of the federal research and development tax credit.
In 2013 we expect full year effective income tax rate will be approximately 34.8% which includes the impact of a restatement of the federal research and development tax credit with the enactment of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012.
The summary of full year 2012 financial results is on Slide 24.
We had net income of $623.9 million from continuing operations in 2012 which was up 13.8% compared to 2011.
2012 earnings were driven by strong growth in the Motorcycles segment.
The Motorcycles segment operating income was up 27.5% compared to last year.
Motorcycle growth was driven by higher revenues and improved gross and operating margins.
HDFS operating income was also up 5.9%.
On Slide 25 you'll see that for 2013 we expect Harley-Davidson motorcycle shipments to be between 259 000 and 264 000 motorcycles on a worldwide basis up approximately 4.5% to 6.5% from 2012.
Our 2013 shipment guidance reflects new model year 2013 and '14 products continued success of our outreach efforts in the U.S.
improved product availability in the U.S.
continued expansion of our international distribution network and the strong appeal of the Harley-Davidson brand.
While we are very optimistic about the strength of our business and brand we remain cautious about the world economies in particular in the U.S.
and Europe.
During the first quarter we expect to ship between 71 000 and 76 000 units which is up approximately 10% to 18% compared to last year.
This increase is driven by the surge manufacturing capabilities we have put in place.
We expect retail inventory to increase by the end of the first quarter as we prepare for the 2013 selling season.
We expect full year 2013 gross margin will be between 35.25% and 36.25%.
2013 gross margin will have both puts and takes.
On the positive side we continue to expect approximately $25 million in incremental restructuring savings about $16 million less in temporary inefficiencies than we experienced in 2012 incremental margin behind higher production and higher pricing.
To a lesser extent we expect favorable product mix.
On the negative side we expect unfavorable currency exchange as we lap hedges established at higher levels of foreign exchange higher pension expense and pressure on materials cost.
For Q1 2013 we expect gross margin will be slightly improved over Q1 2012 driven by increased production largely offset by unfavorable currency exchange.
We expect an adverse impact from currency -- foreign currency in Q1 2013 to be similar to the impact we experienced in Q4 2012.
Capital expenditures in 2013 are expected to be between $200 million and $220 million.
Looking back on 2012 -- looking back 2012 was truly a pivotal year.
We completed a successful ERP implementation and effectively transformed our manufacturing and product development operations.
Retail sales in the U.S.
were another bright spot.
Once again we gained market share and outreach sales grew at twice the rate as our sales to core customers.
In international markets our prudent investment in emerging markets helped offset softness related to the challenging macroeconomic environment in Europe.
Gross margin during the year was up 1.4 points and operating margin was up 2.5 points.
We are excited that the temporary capacity constraints related to restructuring are now behind us and we look forward to the completion of our current restructuring activities.
2012 was another year of delivering significant shareholder value.
Our share price was up 25.6% we increased dividends by 24% and repurchased $300 million of our shares.
2013 is our 110th anniversary year and we plan to continue to bring new customers into the Harley-Davidson brand from all over the world.
As we have done for many years we'll deliver market-leading products and experiences that fulfill dreams of personal freedoms like only Harley-Davidson can.
We will remain focused on executing our growth strategies and we expect to continue to deliver strong margins strong returns and value to our shareholders.
Thank you for your continued confidence and investment in Harley-Davidson.
And now let's take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Ed Aaron from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I actually want to ask a couple of clarification questions about the first quarter if I could.
I think the Q1 shipment guidance is higher than most expected.
Is that entirely a reflection of the surge capabilities coming on line or is there also sort of a message in there about either kind of view of retail sales this year or kind of view of inventories being lower than you want them to be? And then my follow-up is just a clarification question on the currency impact for Q1.
John when you say similar to Q4 are you referring to that on a gross profit dollar basis or on a gross profit margin basis? Okay.
Number one is in the Q4 we have shipment guidance of 71 000 to 76 000 units and that's up 10% to 18%.
And yes that is driven by our surge  manufacturing capability in our York facility.
So the overall strategy has been to produce closer to customer demand.
The customer demand is toward the end of the first quarter and the second quarter and so we will put the units in and increase overall availability in the first quarter.
Now having said that we ended a year ago at very low inventories.
As a matter of fact 2 years ago we're pretty low and last year we fell another 4 400 units.
So as we exit the first quarter with the increased shipments we would expect inventories to be up on a year-over-year basis.
The second question Ed you asked was with regards to Q1 currency.
And the comment was we expected to be in line with what we saw in Q4 and that would be yes both from a revenue standpoint and a gross -- impact on gross profit standpoint.
So we would expect continued devaluation on a year-over-year basis affecting revenue and also the loss on overall hedging similar to what we saw in Q1 -- I'm sorry loss similar to what we saw in Q4.
And the next question comes from the line of Tim Conder from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> John on that FX just to continue that on for 2013 in your Slide 17 you had $17 million negative FX impact for 2012.
Collectively for '13 do you anticipate that at this point being higher lower similar to that? And then also on the gross margin guidance that you have here is there any way to quantify what would be maybe a surge learning curve impact or at minimum just is that some factor here that is within your gross margin guidance for 2013? Okay.
Tim the first question was on a full year basis.
In 2012 we had $17 million impact on foreign currency.
We're not going to quantify that further.
Again the first quarter is going to look similar to the fourth quarter of last year and to say that on a full year basis we expect currency to adversely impact both revenue and gross profit.
The second question that you had was with regards to the surge learning curve and how is that incorporated into the I believe the gross margin guidance.
So one is some of the onetime aspects of surge is incorporated in our temporary inefficiencies and some of those came in 2012 as we prepared.
The first part of the surge opportunity was in hiring -- recruiting and hiring and a lot of that took place last year would be included in temporary inefficiencies in 2012.
As we look forward into next year there are some costs that would be included and fall under gross margin through temporary inefficiencies.
And then also at the end of the year we've got Kansas City going onto surge and we would expect some similar onetime costs as we set the system up and get over that learning curve that you mentioned.
Your next question is from the line of Craig Kennison from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> John could you just clarify with respect to dealer inventory for all of 2013 whether you still expect to reduce that inventory on a year-over-year basis or whether it might be closer to flat given what you're doing in York? And then secondly just comment on used bike values.
So the question with regards to dealer inventory let's take a look at the entire year.
For the last couple of years we talked about inventory being light in particular in the first second and third quarter.
We've been constrained from a capacity standpoint largely through our York facility for probably 6 of the last 6 or 7 quarters.
Those constraints were lifted in the fourth quarter of 2012 and you saw the mix dramatically shift to Touring.
As we enter into 2013 we feel very good about our overall mix of inventories but as we look at the entire year we would expect to improve availability or improve overall inventories in the first second and third quarters.
We continue to expect in the fourth quarter that overall retail inventory will fall slightly and that is again in anticipation of our Kansas City facility being able to surge its production similar to what we're seeing in York this year and therefore we won't need to put as much in the dealer network on the fourth quarter when customers are not buying as many motorcycles.
So improved availability for most of the year Qs 1 through 3 and down slightly at the end of the year as we prepare for a surge at Kansas City.
The second question was what are we seeing in used bike values? Again we saw the big inflection of used bike values was in Q4 of 2011.
Since then we've really seen stable values.
We haven't seen many moves in either direction and again it just leads us to believe that the used bike glut issue is behind us and that we can grow our new bike sales at or above the rate of used bike into the future.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Hardiman from Longbow Research.
I just wanted to follow up on the 1Q shipment guidance and figure out how that fits into the year.
Obviously the growth in the first quarter is way ahead of the growth for the year which implies the rest of the year will need to be short of that full year rate.
Is that entirely a fourth quarter event or will we see that sort of revert to the mean in 2Q or 3Q? And just a clarification separately on the SG&amp;A side you talked about how that was higher than you anticipated in the fourth quarter.
Were there some items that you'd like to call out there? Does that flow through into 2013 or is it sort of a onetime event? Okay.
James with regards to the first quarter we do expect to be up more than our full year average.
So first quarter up 10% to 18%; on full year basis we would look to be up 4.5% to 6.5%.
Again the reason we're doing that is we finished a year ago at extremely low inventories.
And obviously it's looking right at our selling season that really starts in late March and April so we look to replenish a lot of those inventories.
With regards to that we're not going to provide guidance for the other 3 quarters except as you pointed it out in terms of a growth rate they will be on average less than the first quarter.
But we're not going to provide that.
One quarter out we'll provide the next quarter shipment guidance.
The second question is with regards to SG&amp;A in the fourth quarter.
Yes 3 months ago we sat here and we thought that we would down slightly.
We ended up up slightly.
And there's nothing big driving it.
It's really just the timing of year-end expenses.
When we looked at the overall quarter we had a favorability on a year-over-year basis due to a recall that we had in 2011.
And a lot of that was replaced by investment in our future growth.
We spent about $7 million in the quarter investing in future growth.
And that's in line with our overall rate of investment on a full year basis.
On a full year basis we spent about a little over $30 million in our future growth initiatives.
We would expect that type of spending and growth into 2013 and we do expect 2013 SG&amp;A to be higher than 2012 but lower as a percent of revenue.
Your next question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> John with the temporary inefficiencies I believe you said $17 million for the year.
I was just wondering can you just walk us through how that might fall in the quarters? I believe on your last call you said that they were just mainly be the inefficiencies in the first half and then the second half wouldn't have any so I was just trying to reconcile that.
Yes.
So this year we had 33 -- I'm sorry in 2012 $33 million.
We expect about half of that to go away so we would expect about $17 million next year.
We don't provide that gating Felicia by quarter.
But there's 3 main activities that are going to drive that spending.
One is continued training at our Wisconsin and Kansas City facilities.
That should be largely even through the year maybe starting to taper off at the end of the year.
The second piece is what I just mentioned.
In preparation for surge we have a little bit of a cost due York in the first quarter and then we'll be preparing for Kansas City in the fourth quarter.
And then finally as we exit our facility in Australia those expenses will build throughout the year until we completely exit that facility.
So I don't think that there's any dramatic change in the spending of that but I can't provide quarterly guidance with regards to temporary inefficiencies.
Your next question comes from the line of Rod Lache from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> It's Pat Nolan for Rod.
Just a couple of follow-up questions.
First on the shipment guidance and what's kind of underlying that as far as your assumptions could you give us just some color on what you're expecting for overall industry growth next year? And also as a follow-up on your comments about pricing and mix so if we look at it on a full year basis pricing was about a $30 million positive in 2012 and mix was a $5 million positive.
You said mix was going to be less of a positive but pricing still positive.
Do you think it could be in the same range of benefit which you achieved in 2012? Okay Pat the first question on shipment guidance and what we expect out of industry growth.
We don't provide a forecast of the industry.
But just in general we feel very good about the industry and the strength of the industry.
In 2012 the overall industry was up 4% and actually in the fourth quarter it was up 5.3%.
So we see the overall industry strengthening as our competition works through some of the used bike pricing issues that they have.
We do see growth next year but we don't provide a quantification of that.
When we look at our growth of 4.5% to 6.5% it's driven by the appeal of the brand and our 110th year model year product that we feel very good about 2013 model year product has been very strong for the last several months and we would expect that.
And then we're very excited about what we're coming out with for the 2014 product.
Outreach continues to go well.
We would expect that next year for outreach to grow faster than our core customer and in 2012 it grew at double that rate.
And then product availability I've talked about then finally international distribution we'll continue to expand that.
Tempering some of those things are the overall concern with world economies in particular in the U.S.
and Europe.
The next question that you asked is the magnitude of motorcycle pricing and mix favorability.
We are not going to provide overall line item guidance on the elements that make up gross margin.
But as you know we took pricing in August of 2012.
So that will on a year-over-year basis lap for about 8 months and that was about a 0.75% price increase on a worldwide basis.
And again overall product mix was up slightly when you look at family mix of Touring.
We feel good about how we entered the year on mix within family within models and within regions of the world.
We expect slight mix favorability into next year but that's about all I can provide with regards to quantifying.
Your next question comes from the line of Gerrick Johnson from BMO Capital Markets.
Now that it's over what was the dealer reaction to the model year shift? Is this something you'll continue with going forward or will there be more changes? And is there any way to quantify what kind of impact it may have had to retail sales in the year? Gerrick actually the dealer response was very positive.
The reason we did it was because the dealers requested that we push it back.
So the response was positive.
It certainly was a difficult time to do it.
When we plan to do it a couple of years prior we didn't realize we would also be putting in the ERP system.
So I think that added some complexity to our third quarter and drove inventories a little bit lower well a fair amount lower than we would have anticipated.
But we are very pleased with the dealer show being in late August and we expect to continue that into the future.
Your next question comes from the line of Jaime Katz from MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> I know that dealer presence or the rate that you're kind of opening them globally remains unchanged but can you talk a little bit about how you guys perceive your opportunities in the different geographic regions as kind of Europe has began to struggle a little bit more or do you see more opportunities in maybe Asia now than before and how are you addressing that? Yes.
This is Keith.
First of all we said I think 3 years ago that we were going to open between 100 and 150 new dealers around the world.
As you mentioned we're certainly on plan to do that.
We believe that there is still opportunity really in every market.
We feel that the strength of the brand the products that -- the new products that we're bringing to market have tremendous appeal.
Clearly and John mentioned it in his comments Southern Europe is weak right now because of some of the economic struggles that they're seeing.
We did mention in our notes earlier we have a very strong year in Latin America.
We think there is still upside and opportunity in that region.
We had a strong year in Asia Pacific and we highlighted some of those areas and a couple of them we talked about were China and India and we think there is tremendous potential there as well.
Our sales while increasing every year in those regions are still pretty small.
And so we think that as disposable personal income in those regions continue to grow and we provide the right kind of products in those markets we think there's upside there for us.
Then there's other emerging markets which we've just sort of have begun to touch so we think the future is very bright in terms of our international expansion Your next question comes from the line of Ed Aaron from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on HDFS if I could.
You mentioned expectations for some changing consumer behavior in 2013.
I was wondering if you could maybe elaborate on that a little bit.
I guess delinquencies are still low but this was the first time we've seen a tick up a little bit in the last few years so just maybe a little bit more color around on how you see that unfolding in '13? Sure.
I think -- Ed this is Larry Hund.
If you look over the last year or 2 what we've seen is consumer behavior consumers have really been focused on rebuilding their credit profile deleveraging paying off debt.
And I think that's benefited us and other vehicle finance lenders.
So in the fourth quarter we saw a very slight increase in our delinquency and I think that's pretty consistent with what we're seeing out in the market as well.
I think you're starting to see consumers take on a little bit more debt maybe being a little bit less conservative.
And I think when that behavior changes the offshoot of it is slightly higher delinquency and slightly higher credit losses and I think that's what we signaled for next year.
Your question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Keith I had a bigger picture question for you.
You guys gave us some good color about how to think about gross margins in '13 given what we know now.
But now that you have the surge capacity in place I'm assuming that at York it doesn't just stop there.
So I was wondering if you could help us understand what type of continuous improvement programs you might be looking at or just other ways to continuously -- or to use that word again to continuously improve kind of the excellent productivity that you'll be getting out of York just with this surge capacity and then perhaps also out of Kansas City.
Right.
Well I mean first of all Felicia if you look at our strategy that we've had in place since last several years there is really only 4 pillars.
And one of them is continuous improvement right? And so I think you make a very good point.
And what we've really been focused on is getting the entire organization to understand that no matter how well we're doing whether it's in sales in marketing or whether it’s in engineering or whether it's in manufacturing that we can always do better.
And so if you think about York if you think about Kansas City Pilgrim Road all of our plants Tomahawk and the transformation that we're going through certainly this is just sort of the beginning right? I mean in other words we've just now kicked that off.
And our expectation is that we will continue to improve we'll continue to improve our productivity we'll continue to improve our performance around quality the health safety and well-being of our employees and certainly all of those things tend to make for a much smoother more efficient operations.
So my -- our expectation is that we'll continue to get better as we go to surge the next year the following year and the year after.
I don't know if that answered your question specifically.
Your next question comes from the line of Gerrick Johnson from BMO Capital Markets.
I wish -- I was hoping you could just touch on your own company inventories down about 6% in preparation for flex.
Should work-in-progress be up or are finished goods down? What were the puts and takes in the company inventory there? This is John.
The company inventory is down versus a year ago.
The main driver of that Gerrick is if you recall a year ago we were building inventory in the fourth quarter and we were keeping it in company-owned inventory and we were going to release that and we did release it when the ERP implementation went off.
So with the new ERP implementation we're expecting production to be down quite significantly in the month that we launched.
So we had higher production in the fourth quarter than we did this year and last year and also higher inventories.
So that's the biggest reason for the drop.
But as you pointed out because production is going to be up a fair amount in the first quarter yes certainly we have to bring on more materials for that production and that would take our work-in-progress inventories up and our raw materials up a little bit as well.
So those 2 work to offset each  other but net-net we're down as you had mentioned.
Your next question comes from the line of James Hardiman from Longbow Research.
Another follow-up for Larry if you would.
You talked about HDFS being down in 2013.
Obviously that was the initial expectation for 2012 and I think that's been better than expected across-the-board.
Obviously that's a testament to the work that Larry and the rest of the team has done over the course of the year.
But can we talk about as the year has progressed what surprised you maybe to the upside in HDFS? And as we roll forward to 2013 talk about some of those same factors.
What are the odds that 2013 could look a lot like 2012 in terms of outperforming expectations or are we really at the end of the runway with some of these items? Okay James this is Larry.
The biggest thing I think surprise in 2012 was just how low the retail credit losses were.
At 79 basis points clearly the lowest we've seen in over a decade and considerably better than what we had seen in 2011.
So really you can say that drove a fair amount of profit for us last year.
I would say when you take a look at 2013 we don't think it's realistic to expect that continued drive downward in retail credit losses.
I think we expect the credit portfolio to perform well it's in good shape going into the year.
But we think as far as the consumer is concerned that they're starting to shift their behavior a little bit.
We may see a little bit higher credit losses.
So as far as call it surprises on the upside next year we think there's probably less potential for that just given where -- how low credit losses were in 2012.
And your last question comes from the line of Tim Conder from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Keith just to revisit your point on the additional emerging markets.
You'd commented previously a few times about looking at some potential different approaches in especially the Indian market.
Any update you can give us there or when we may start to see some fulfillment or evidence of that emerging? Well I think Tim you know that we have a fully up and running CKD operation in India and we're actually assembling bikes over there and we assemble certain models and more and more models.
We continue to open dealerships.
And we continue to look at what are other opportunities in that part of the world.
So I think going forward we'll probably have more say about those things but right now that's kind of where we're at.
And there are no further questions in queue.
Thank you.
We appreciate your investment in Harley-Davidson.
And thank you for your time this morning everyone.
The audio and visual support for today's call will be available at harley-davidson.com.
The audio can also be accessed until February 12 by calling (404) 537-3406 or (855) 859-2056 in the U.S.
The pin number is 83422435#.
We appreciate your investment in Harley-Davidson.
And if you have any questions please contact Investor Relations at (414) 343-8002.
Thanks.
And this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Aaron and I'll be your operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to turn the call over to Ms.
Amy Giuffre Director of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Giuffre you may begin your conference.
Thank you Aaron and welcome to Harley-Davidson's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
The audio for today's call is being webcast live on harley-davidson.com.
The supporting slides can be accessed on our website by clicking on Company Investor Relations then Events and Presentations.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks that could cause actual results to be materially different.
Those risks include among others matters we have noted in our latest earnings release and filings with the SEC.
Harley-Davidson disclaims any obligation to update information in this call.
This morning you'll hear from Harley-Davidson's CEO Keith Wandell; CFO John Olin; and President of Harley-Davidson Financial Services Larry Hund.
Then we'll open the call for your questions.
So let's get started.
Keith? Thank you Amy.
Good morning and thanks to all of you for joining us today.
We appreciate your interest and your investment in Harley-Davidson.
Before we get to the discussion of the quarter I just want to expand on the news that we shared earlier this week about our continued market leadership in our U.S.
customer segments.
As you know we've been highly focused on positioning the company for long-term success like growing sales to new groups of customers in the U.S.
and internationally while also growing sales among our traditional customer base.
Just this past January we reported that in 2012 Harley-Davidson sales grew faster for the first time to our U.S.
outreach customers which consist of young adults 18 to 34; female riders; African-American and Hispanic riders then to our traditional U.S.
customer base of Caucasian men ages 34 plus.
In fact in 2012 sales to outreach customers grew at more than twice the rate as sales to our traditional core customers.
And just this past Monday we provided further proof of Harley-Davidson's brand appeal when we released newly available 2012 data for each of these U.S.
market segments.
Among the highlights were that last year for the fifth straight year Harley-Davidson was the #1 seller across all CCs of new street motorcycles in the U.S.
to each of these outreach segments as well as to our traditional customers.
And among young adults we sold nearly twice as many new street motorcycles as the nearest competitor.
We sold nearly half of all new street motorcycles purchased by African-Americans and by Hispanics in the U.S.
And we sold more new street motorcycles to women than all other brands combined.
These facts demonstrate the strength and broad appeal of our products and that the Harley-Davidson brand across all of these diverse groups.
Another way to look at brand appeal is sales to customers who are new to the brand.
And last year nearly 4 of 10 sales -- nearly 4 of every 10 sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the U.S.
were to new customers.
And of course our strategy for a long-term sustainable future is also focused on global opportunities.
In 2012 2/3 of Harley-Davidson sales outside the U.S.
were to customers who were new to the brand.
Together with the U.S.
number this means that nearly half of all of our global sales last year were to new customers.
We believe all of this new data demonstrates the Harley-Davidson's multicultural multigenerational strategy is effectively reaching customers both in the U.S.
and around the world.
And we believe our strategies in product development manufacturing and retail with their focus on optimizing our ability to deliver great product and customer experiences will continue to provide a competitive advantage and fuel growth.
Through our product development strategy we continue to hit home runs with motorcycles like Breakout.
We have improved product development time-to-market and have other great new motorcycle introductions around the corner later this year.
In manufacturing the implementation of seasonal surge production at our York plant in January came out without a hitch.
Our employees did an unbelievable job in this implementation.
And as a result we're now building more motorcycles closer to when they're needed.
We also continue to see great improvement in better matching production to customer demand.
Again earlier this week we launched our state-of-the-art e-commerce site to deliver the premium online experience that customers expect.
And believe -- we believe this will be a great enhancement to serve current customers attract new customers and to generate growth over time.
When I think of all we've accomplished in a few short years and all the opportunities that we have in front of us I believe we're in a position a great position for the future.
We have outstanding brand strength and appeal across generations across cultures and across borders.
We continue to expand our competitive position.
We enjoy outstanding customer loyalty and we have great opportunity in the pool of potential customers as John will tell you about in a few minutes.
So I want to thank everyone our employees our dealers and our suppliers.
They're doing an outstanding job every day to deliver for our customers and fulfill the dreams of personal freedom for people around the world.
The riding season is starting up.
There's a summer of great 110th anniversary events ahead including major celebrations in Rome and Milwaukee.
And all of us at Harley-Davidson look forward to spending time with our customers and celebrating with our extended family.
And now let me turn it over to John Olin.
Thanks Keith and good morning everyone.
I'll review the first quarter financial results starting on Slide 9.
During the quarter Harley-Davidson Inc.
consolidated revenue was up 9.9% to $1.6 billion.
Our first quarter net income improved to $224.1 million an increase of $52.1 million or 30.3%.
Similarly diluted earnings per share rose to $0.99 per share up 33.8% from the year-ago quarter.
Operating income for the Motorcycles segment was $276.8 million up 33.0% compared to last year's first quarter.
The strong increase at the Motorcycle business was driven by an 11.1% increase in revenue as shipments were up 17.1%.
Additionally Motorcycles segment operating income benefited from higher gross margin and lower restructuring spending.
Operating income at Harley-Davidson Financial Services was up 6.1% behind higher net interest income.
We are very pleased with our first quarter results.
Now let's take a look at retail on Slide 10.
Worldwide retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles were down 9.1% reflecting weather in the U.S.
and macroeconomic challenges that continue in Europe.
Despite these factors the Harley-Davidson brand is strong and is benefiting from the success of our key growth strategies.
We along with our dealers continue to invest in the Harley-Davidson experience including our remarkable products expanding the reach of the brand to new customers in the U.S.
and expanding our international distribution.
We continue to gain momentum and market share in many key markets.
And we believe we are on track to deliver our full year shipment guidance of 259 000 to 264 000 units or up approximately 4.5% to 6.5%.
On Slide 11 you'll see dealers in the U.S.
posted solid Q1 2013 retail sales results especially when considering the tough year-over-year comparison of about 25.5% as well as the challenging economic environment.
Last year's sales results during the first quarter were driven by the mildest weather across the United States in over 100 years which we believe pulled sales forward from the second quarter of 2012.
Against this backdrop U.S.
retail sales of Harley-Davidson motorcycles were down 12.7% while the heavyweight motorcycle segment was down 16.5%.
Dealer retail inventory in the U.S.
increased 13 300 units in Q1 of 2013 which we believe was driven by higher shipments largely enabled by the successful implementation of surge manufacturing at York.
The increase in inventory will improve product availability from the tight levels experienced in 2011 and 2012.
We also expect higher year-over-year inventory in the second and third quarters of this year and reduce Q4 inventory in anticipation of additional surge capability in the first half of 2014.
Before we discuss market share I want to point out a change in how we report heavyweight motorcycle industry and market share data.
In order to more closely align with the universal market definition we now define heavyweight motorcycles to have at least 601 cubic centimeters of engine displacement.
Previously our definition of heavyweight included motorcycles with engine displacements of at least 651cc.
The sheer difference between the 601cc and 651cc segments is small.
For example full year 2012 share of the 651cc segment in the U.S.
was 57.2% while our market share of the 601cc segment was 53.9%.
A 5-year history of both market segmentations is available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Now during the first quarter Harley-Davidson share of the 601cc heavyweight market strengthened by 2.2 percentage points versus prior year to 55.9% which represents another record quarter of market share.
Our strong market share gains were driven by the strong appeal of the Harley-Davidson brand and products.
Keith highlighted the latest data illustrating our strong brand relevance across generations and continued its success in attracting new and diverse riders.
But there's another part to this story.
We also believe we have a long-term opportunity when you look at population trends from the U.S.
Census Bureau.
Take a look at the chart at the bottom right-hand corner of Slide 11.
The blue line represents Caucasian men ages 35 to 74 our traditional customer base in the population segment that has represented the largest portion of U.S.
retail sales for many years.
As the blue line shows this pool of approximately 50 million people is expected to be stable and strong through at least the year 2050 as new generations move into and through this population segment.
The red line represents the U.S.
population of young adults ages 18 to 34 women Hispanics and African-Americans.
The U.S.
Census Bureau projects that this pool which is 3x larger than our traditional customer base today will grow at an annual rate of about 0.75% to more than 200 million people between now and 2050.
These are the same outreach demographic segments in which Harley-Davidson has established a clear leadership position.
In 2012 retail sales to these groups grew at more than twice the rate of sales to our traditional customers.
Taken together our strategy to focus on growth among young adults women Hispanics and African-Americans as well as our traditional customer base of Caucasian men 35 plus lines up extremely well with these population trends.
We believe the opportunity in our traditional base of strength will be strong for many years.
And the opportunity in our key -- other key outreach segments is large and projected to grow.
As we look forward to the remainder of the year and beyond we feel great our brand our business and our future.
However near term we do remain cautious on the U.S.
economy.
On Slide 12 you will see first quarter retail sales in our international markets were down 1.8%.
In our Europe region Q1 retail sales were down 10.8%.
We continue to experience significant softness in the Southern European countries.
In addition retail sales in the Northern countries were down in aggregate driven primarily by the prolonged economic crisis across the region.
Emerging markets within the EMEA region continue to grow reflecting the success of our strategic investment in international growth.
During the first quarter our share of the 601cc market in Europe was 11.4% which was largely flat the prior year despite aggressive discounting by our competitors.
We remain concerned about the potential effect on sales of the ongoing recession in Europe which continues to result in very low consumer confidence high unemployment and constrained credit.
We will continue to focus on the factors that we can control which includes building our brand experience across the region and expanding our distribution network in emerging markets.
In the Asia-Pacific region retail sales were up 11.5% driven by double-digit growth in Australia and emerging markets.
In Japan retail sales were up 4.7% despite a challenging economic environment and increased competitive activity.
The Latin America region was up 6.2% driven by Brazil and Mexico.
This growth is on top of last year's first quarter increase of 85%.
During the quarter the Harley-Davidson brand took the #1 share position in Brazil's heavyweight market.
Finally Canada's retail sales were down slightly during the quarter.
Despite the challenges in Europe we are confident in our international growth strategy and continue to invest especially in emerging markets.
During the quarter 6 dealerships were opened in 6 different countries including Turkey South Africa and the Philippines.
Since 2009 we have opened 99 dealerships which is in line with our goal of opening 100 to 150 new international dealerships by the end of 2014.
On Slide 13 you'll see wholesale shipments of Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the quarter were up 17.1% compared to last year as we took advantage of our surge manufacturing capability which we initiated at York this quarter.
The implementation of surge manufacturing in York allowed us to increase production of our Touring and Softail families ahead of the peak selling seasons.
Last year production of these models were constrained due to our restructuring.
We also increased production in our Kansas City plant compared to last year's first quarter.
Shipments in the first quarter of 2013 were within our expected range of 71 000 to 76 000 motorcycles.
The mix of motorcycle shipments during the quarter shifted toward custom bikes.
The mix of Touring bikes was strong but down slightly versus last year's first quarter when we shipped a high percentage of Touring motorcycles.
International shipments as a percent of the total were down compared to 2012 reflecting our efforts to navigate through the tough market conditions in Europe.
On Slide 14 you'll see revenues of the Motorcycle and Related Products segment was up 11.1% in the first quarter behind the increased year-over-year motorcycle shipments.
Motorcycle revenue was up 15.9% behind a 17.1% increase in shipments during the first quarter.
For the quarter the average motorcycle revenue per unit decreased $158 from the prior period primarily driven by unfavorable currency exchange partially offset by higher pricing.
On average our key currencies during the first quarter were weaker against the U.S.
dollar by approximately 4% compared to last year.
Related business revenue was down for the quarter compared to last year as both parts and accessories and general merchandise revenue generally track more closely with retail motorcycle sales than with motorcycle shipments.
Parts and accessory sales were down 7.5% and general merchandise was down 3.3% in the first quarter compared to retail sales of motorcycles which were down 9.1% compared to Q1 2012.
Now turning to restructuring on Slide 15.
Restructuring expenses were $2.9 million during the first quarter.
We also experienced approximately $3 million in temporary inefficiencies versus approximately $7 million in last year's first quarter.
Since 2009 we have been intensely focused on improving our cost structure and transforming the business to be stronger more flexible and more profitable.
As we near the completion of this restructuring we will continue to focus on improving retail capabilities and strengthening our worldwide distribution channels and product development capabilities.
We have established a culture of continuous improvement and we'll continue to look for ways to operate in the most efficient and profitable manner.
On Slide 16 you'll see gross margin in the quarter was 36.7% which was up 0.8 percentage points versus last year.
Volume price materials and manufacturing were all favorable for the quarter.
As expected foreign currency exchange was significantly unfavorable during the first quarter related to the year-over-year hedge impact and continued volatility in key currencies.
Mix was marginally unfavorable during the quarter as we experienced unfavorable mix within families and geographies partially offset by the favorable impact of higher shipments of custom motorcycles.
Manufacturing costs were favorable to prior year benefiting from restructuring savings higher production in the quarter and lower temporary inefficiencies as compared to last year's first quarter.
As we said last quarter we continue to experience cost pressure from our suppliers of purchased components.
On Slide 17 operating margin as a percent of revenue for the first quarter was 19.6% up 3.3 percentage points compared to last year's first quarter.
Operating margin for the quarter was favorably impacted by higher gross margin and lower year-over-year restructuring costs partially offset by slightly higher SG&amp;A.
As a percent of revenue SG&amp;A in the first quarter was 17.0% versus 18.6% in the prior year quarter.
We continue to expect SG&amp;A spending will increase on a year-over-year basis in 2013 and 2014 as we continue to invest in growth initiatives but decrease as a percent of revenue through 2014.
Now moving on to our Financial Services segment on Slide 18.
In the first quarter HDFS's operating profit increased $4.1 million or 6.1% compared to last year.
The 3 key drivers of the first quarter results were: first net interest income was up $10.7 million resulting from lower interest expense which was primarily driven by a lower cost of funds; second the combined change in the provision for retail and wholesale credit losses was unfavorable by $3.8 million on lower credit loss reserve releases and slightly higher retail credit losses; and finally operating expenses were up $3.2 million.
We're pleased with the performance of our financial services business in the first quarter.
On a full year basis we continue to believe HDFS's 2013 operating income will be modestly lower than 2012 as the business benefited from approximately $17 million of 2012 credit loss reserve releases which may not repeat in 2013.
In addition we also expect modestly higher retail credit losses in 2013 due to lower recoveries resulting from fewer charge-offs in prior periods changing consumer behavior and HDFS funding of additional loans we believe are prudently structured in the near-prime and sub-prime segments.
Keep in mind of the $17 million of credit loss reserve releases in 2012 $11.2 million were released during the second quarter of last year so we'll be lapping that comparison in the second quarter of this year.
Now Larry will provide more detail on HDFS's operations on Slide 19.
Larry? Thanks John and good morning.
During the first quarter HDFS retail motorcycle loan originations decreased 7.9% or $43.7 million compared to the same period last year.
The decrease was primarily driven by lower year-over-year new retail motorcycle sales and a 1.2-percentage-point decrease in retail financing market share.
For the first quarter HDFS's retail financing market share of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles sold in the U.S.
was 45.8% compared to 47.0% in the first quarter of 2012.
This decrease was primarily due to increased competition in the prime segment.
As a result we reduced pricing in certain prime credit tiers late in the quarter to position ourselves more competitively in the market.
Finance receivables outstanding increased 2.3% compared to a year ago driven by growth in the wholesale portfolio.
We believe the overall loan portfolio is solid comprised of profitable loans funded in both the prime and sub-prime segments.
In the first quarter of 2013 between 75% and 80% of our new loan originations were prime.
Moving on to credit performance on Slide 20.
The 30-day delinquency rate for retail motorcycle loans at March 31 2013 was 2.92% or 36 basis points higher than 2012.
This is consistent with consumers' willingness to take on more debt as well as our actions over the last several years to modestly increase approval rates in the near-prime and sub-prime categories as we fund additional loans that we believe are prudently structured.
To put this delinquency percentage in proper perspective this is only the second time in at least the last 12 years where HDFS has finished the first quarter with retail delinquency below 3%.
Annual retail credit losses increased by 9 basis points to 1.09% in the first quarter compared to 2012 primarily driven by lower levels of recoveries.
We are pleased with the progress at HDFS as we continued to maintain a solid liquidity position reduced our cost of funds and delivered strong profitability.
We remain focused on enabling sales of Harley-Davidson motorcycles while providing an attractive return to Harley-Davidson Inc.
Now let me turn it back to John.
Thanks Larry.
And now we'll take a look at cash and liquidity on Slide 21.
You'll see that at the end of the quarter we had $1.15 billion of cash and marketable securities.
In addition we had $1.26 billion of available liquidity through bank credit and conduit facilities.
We currently have and intend to continue to maintain a minimum of 12 months of projected liquidity needs in cash and/or committed credit facilities.
During the quarter there were several transactions related to cash.
First HDFS paid $185 million dividend to H-D Inc.
We also made $175 million contribution to our qualified pension plans.
This contribution reduces the $221 million Q4 2012 increase in our long-term pension and postretirement liability which was driven by the pension discount rate assumptions changing from 5.3% to 4.2%.
I'm very pleased to report that during the quarter Harley-Davidson increased our quarterly dividend from $0.155 to $0.21 per share an increase of 35.5%.
We also repurchased approximately 2 million shares of Harley-Davidson stock for $105 million during the quarter.
As we have stated returning value to our shareholders through increasing dividends and share repurchases is a top priority.
We will continue to evaluate opportunities to enhance value for our shareholders.
Last week we also completed a $650 million asset-backed securitization transaction with the weighted average interest rate of 0.71%.
Now I'll review the remaining Harley-Davidson Inc.
financials on Slide 22.
I'd like to highlight 2 items on this slide.
First with regards to operating cash flows the company used operating cash of $109 million during the first quarter driven by increased wholesale lending and $175 million contribution to our pension plans in January.
And second the tax rate for the first quarter was 33.8%.
This reflects the benefit of the full year of 2012 and the first quarter of 2013 R&amp;D tax credit which was reinstated retroactively with the enactment of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 at the beginning of 2013.
We continue to expect our full year effective tax rate will be approximately 34.8%.
On Slide 23 you'll see that for 2013 we continue to expect Harley-Davidson motorcycle shipments to be between 259 000 and 264 000 motorcycles on a worldwide basis up approximately 4.5% to 6.5% from 2012.
During the second quarter we expect to ship between 80 000 and 85 000 units which is in line with last year's second quarter shipments of 83 500 units.
We continue to expect full year 2013 gross margin will be between 35.25% and 36.25%.
Capital expenditures in 2013 are expected to be between $200 million and $220 million.
Looking back we feel very pleased with our first quarter results and key accomplishments which include: successfully initiating surge manufacturing at York effectively eliminating our temporary capacity constraints; launching our new e-commerce experience which will bring a premium online shopping experience to our customers.
We continue to deliver significant shareholder value by increasing our dividend by over 35% and repurchasing 2 million shares of our stock.
Our 110th anniversary year is underway and we plan to continue to bring new customers into the Harley-Davidson brand from all over the world.
As we have done for many years we'll deliver market-leading products and experiences that fulfill the dreams of personal freedom like only Harley-Davidson can; we continue to position the company for the long-term success by growing new groups of customers in the U.S.
and internationally while we continue to grow sales of our traditional customer base.
We will remain focused on executing our growth strategies and expect to continue to deliver strong margins strong returns and value to our shareholders.
Thank you for your continued confidence and investment at Harley-Davidson.
And now let's take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Sharon Zackfia from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I had 2 questions.
I guess first the gross margin was a nice positive surprise in the quarter and I think it's better that you had kind of led us to believe earlier in January.
So what surprised you on the gross margin side was it York functioning more smoothly than expected or what have you? And then secondly I think currency is always a little bit opaque to those of us on the outside and with the yen devaluing during the quarter how do we think about currency through the remainder of the year versus all we just saw in the first quarter? Okay Sharon.
First of all gross margin we had a gross margin of 36.7% in the quarter.
And yes when we gave guidance on our last conference call we said that we'd be slightly ahead of a year-ago quarter which was 35.9%.
So we were looking at 10 20 basis points ahead.
So we came in favorable to that.
And the reason largely was just how smoothly the surge manufacturing at York came off.
So we experienced lower temporary inefficiencies than we had anticipated.
Again as Keith had mentioned that was just an absolute tremendous execution.
We took production up at capacity utilization.
We improved overall quality.
Safety was the best quarter that we've ever had in York and we hit our production targets.
So the driver of the increase in gross margin was due to that.
The second question Sharon that you had asked is with regards to currency.
What we said is on a full year basis that currency would be unfavorable.
We certainly saw that come through in the first quarter.
And so basically in the first quarter as I've mentioned in the prepared remarks is that the foreign currency devalued by 4% and that was really driven by 2 of them: the yen fell 15% from a year ago and the real fell 11%.
And that drove revenue to be down about $14 million and cost of goods sold was a little bit unfavorable as well as we lapped gains of a year ago on the hedges that now turned into losses.
So first quarter was in line with what we expected.
It was down about $15 million.
As we look forward on a full year basis expect it to continue to be unfavorable.
And as we look to the second quarter we would expect currency to be unfavorable as well however not to the same magnitude as we saw in the first quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Kennison from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just interested in whether you can help us understand how weather impacted your sales in Q1 in markets that really don't require much of a difference in weather or much -- show much of a difference in weather.
Great.
Thanks Greg.
So again as everyone is well aware of last year's first quarter was up 25.5%.
And to really understand the extent of that is you kind of get into the -- some of the numbers.
And 25 states last year's first quarter were at all-time highs in 118 years the warmest ever.
Another 13 states were the top 5 warmest in 118 years.
Of those 38 states Craig they virtually accounted for 100% of the decline in year-over-year retail sales.
And if you take a state like California where weather was pretty similar on a year-over-year basis we see that California had solid growth between 2012 and 2013.
So again we're confident that this year's decline of 12.7% is weather-driven and it just happens to be that March is a large month.
It's about half of that volume for the first quarter.
It's really a swing month.
And we always say at Harley-Davidson "Spring always comes " and it just didn't come in this year's first quarter.
And we were lapping last year's very high numbers.
You're next question comes from the line of Tim Conder from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> On the gross margin I wanted to circle back to that.
Given that you said that the real reason for the upside versus your expectations was the better execution on the operational side there in York what would preclude us from thinking that that should continue going forward here in the second quarter? And I know you mentioned that the currency was a little bit worse than your expectations.
I think your expectations had been about $13 million.
You said it came in at a negative $15 million and expect this will still be negative going forward.
But all that together why wouldn't you raise the gross margin I guess at this point is question number one.
And number two is there any type of sensitivity you can give us on foreign exchange say if you put on any new hedges folding all of that in and x percent change in revenue in this basket of countries will impact the EPS that much x y amounts? Okay.
Tim I think your first question was "Why don't we raise full year gross margin?" That's an easy answer.
It's because we think it's going to be between 35.25% and 36.25%.
What we saw in the first quarter is largely the onetime temporary inefficiencies.
And that's what drove us favorable to what we had anticipated 3 months ago and that was driven by the York piece which you also saw in the first quarter is higher production.
And I will say that when we look at overall production for this year that 100% of our production increases are going to come in the first half.
And you saw some of that in the first quarter.
You'll see a little bit more in the second quarter.
But by and large we're on track.
We're right on track with not only our retail sales -- and I didn't mention that before is from an internal plant perspective actually we had retail sales falling a little bit more in the first quarter.
So in the U.S.
we're a little bit ahead of our plans there and our financial plans were right on track.
A little bit better in gross margin for the quarter but that was more of a onetime deal.
And the sensitivity of foreign currency? I'm sorry.
The second question Tim is sensitivity on foreign currency and rules of thumb.
And we don't have any rules of thumb that are very easy to translate.
And when you do the accounting for currency it is very complicated.
You've got a couple of pieces.
The revenue piece which is more straightforward which is a year-over-year impact of average exchange rates and how it affects revenue.
In the cost of goods sold though is you have hedges that you put on in prior periods and how they relate.
So those are always changing.
You've got a balance sheet revaluation which in this quarter the first quarter was significantly negative because of the rapidly declining yen.
And that's a mark from the beginning of the quarter through the end of the quarter.
And then you have the offset of natural hedges of products that you're producing and bringing in from those markets.
And with all those moving pieces there is no common rule of thumb that you can say that if this happens that will happen.
It has to do with previous hedges and the timing of weather fall in.
So I wish there was a way we can say that "Here's the way to really make it simple." But the accounting is in fact the matter is it's not all that simple.
But again on a full year basis we expect currency to be unfavorable.
And as I just mentioned when we look at the second quarter we would expect currency to be unfavorable but not to the same magnitude as we saw in the first quarter.
And your next question comes from the line of Ed Aaron from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'd like to get your thoughts on the impact of the recent change of the dollar-yen relationship.
In addition to just kind of understanding the -- now the translation and transaction impact I also want to get your sense for how you think your Japanese competitors might respond from a pricing perspective since weaker yen obviously helps their overall competitiveness.
Okay.
So Ed as I've mentioned on a year-over-year basis the Japanese yen has devalued 15%.
And so if you're manufacturer producing in Japan and selling your products in the U.S.
that is very favorable.
So the question Ed I think is "Will we expect the Japanese to take any pricing actions here in the United States?" The answer is they run their business and we don't have a lot of insight.
What I can say though is as the yen strengthen we did not see the Japanese lower prices to any great extent.
I'm sorry they didn't raise prices to any great extent.
The Japanese competitors have always been in it for the long term and they've been pretty steady in their overall pricing.
So I don't know if they would now take prices down given the fact that they took a lot more profits over the last few years.
But again we don't know what they're going to do.
Your next question comes from the line of Rod Lache from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Pat Nolan on for Rod.
Just a quick follow-up.
I missed the total manufacturing and efficiency number when you're going through it.
What was that in the quarter? Yes it was $3 million in the quarter compared to $7 million in the year-ago quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And are you still expecting -- I know you previously thought the $33 million impact of that in 2012.
You basically cut that in half in 2013.
Do you expect that now that you can keep that kind of out-performance you saw in Q1 and it actually comes -- it reduces by more than 50% on a full year basis? Given the favorability Pat in the first quarter we would expect temporary inefficiencies to come in a little bit favorable on a full year basis.
It doesn't carry through to the second quarter.
Those were largely startup costs of getting people in trained and what we thought -- slower line speeds.
But again they got up to speed very quickly and everything went extremely well.
So that would be viewed more as a onetime favorability in the first quarter.
And overall on a full year basis we'll bring the number down a little but again it does not repeat throughout the year.
Your next question comes from the line of James Hardiman from Longbow Research.
Question on the second quarter guidance.
Basically you're saying you're guiding wholesale to be flat but it sounds like you're saying inventories are going to be up.
The only way that math really works is if retail is down.
I know you don't give any sort of guidance on retail but just connecting the dots you've basically given some indications.
I guess first how should I think about the second quarter from a retail perspective? Obviously a big decline in the first quarter but you got much easier comparisons.
And then I guess just secondly what's the range of retail growth that you think your production is capable of handling at this point? Is there any sort of upper limit to what you could handle in terms of satisfying your retail demand with your production? James I'll start with the last question first.
Is -- you know I'm not going to provide retail growth but we have got the capacity we need to do to satisfy market demands.
And that's what restructuring has been all about over the last several years.
And this fourth quarter was a big piece of that including the surge production into play and into operation.
So overall capacity is not a near-term concern for us.
With regard to the second quarter the shipment guidance is for 80 000 to 85 000 which is in line with what we did last year at 83 500.
Now remember last year's 83 500 had 7 000-ish coming out of inventory.
And this year we'll look to produce -- well we don't have them in inventory to release them so that will be increased production.
And when you look at inventories growing remember the launching spot that we're taking off in the first quarter is much higher than it was a year ago.
So it doesn't necessarily preclude retail from growing.
We don't provide any retail guidance.
But what I can tell you is we're all looking forward to much easier comps in the second and third quarter than we had in the first quarter.
And again in the first quarter we had retail sales up a year ago of 4% and down 5.2% in the second -- or in the third quarter driven by the ERP implementation.
So the next 2 quarters which represent about 60% of our retail sales is we're going to have comps that are about flat to a year ago.
So we're very excited and looking forward to that.
But beyond that I can't provide any guidance on retail sales but feel good about our shipment guidance of about 4.5% to 6.5%.
Your next question comes from the line of Patrick Archambault from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Actually I just wanted to go back to kind of a larger strategic question tying into some of the competitive actions.
You guys have consistently seen share gains in the United States and this quarter was no exception.
Can you talk a little bit about what you see really driving that?  And also tying it into the yen question what's the discounting activity been by some of your competitors? Has they pulled back? Has that created some opportunity? A little bit more color on that would be great.
From a discounting standpoint we have -- we continue to see a lot of discounting by competitors not only Japanese.
And looking in the range of 750 to 2 000 a unit we have not seen any big difference in discounting by Japanese competitors but we continue to see overall discounting.
Yes the other question was with regards to...
Yes this is Keith.
The question about the market share gains.
Clearly we've put a strategy in place several years ago that said "We want to develop bring new products to market more quickly." Those are starting to come to the pipeline now.
We wanted to be more efficient and effective in how we manufacture closer to the customer.
We're doing that.
And we want our dealers to provide a great customer experience every time every day every place in the world and that's well underway as well.
So you asked me why are we gaining market share? I think those are the reasons.
We're living on our strategy we're making it happen.
We're focused on -- as we talked about earlier today we're focused on bringing new riders into the family.
4 out of every 10 bikes sold in the U.S.
that was the case.
1 out of every 2 around the world that was the case.
And we're gaining market share in those outreach segments where we think it's very important.
John talked about some of the demographics going forward and what that looks like over the next several years.
We just believe that that strategy we've put in place is the reason that we're winning those market share gains.
Your next question comes from the line of Gerrick Johnson from BMO Capital Markets.
Sometimes you guys give us a change in total demand including pre-owned.
How did that look this quarter?  Was there a big difference between what was moving preowned versus new? Gerrick this is John.
The new used data is a month lag.
So on January and February which is a very small data point in a very small part of the year suggests that used fell faster than new.
So overall total demand in those 2 months for Harley-Davidson motorcycles was down about 11.7 -- well not exactly 11.7% and largely driven by declining new -- I'm sorry declining used.
New was much stronger in January and February timeframe.
Again I wouldn't put too much reliance on 2 months of winter data.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Badishkanian from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> And just kind of looking at -- focusing on Europe.
You've maintained share.
And obviously it seems like a lot of that was macro-driven.
Is there anything else that was notable whether it's weather competitive dynamics going on in that marketplace? Greg this is John.
The biggest driver is the macroeconomics.
And we always say that's going to be sunny somewhere.
But now that you mentioned it is across Europe it was much colder in the first quarter.
Matter of fact the average temperatures were down about 14 degrees Fahrenheit 13.5 degrees.
So weather was pretty tough in Europe as well which probably had some impact on the category.
Germany was the coldest March in 150 years.
And I think the U.K.
was at 50-year high in terms of cold.
So weather did play into it but it is more the macroeconomics.
And again where the North was holding up for the first several quarters since the sovereign debt crisis started in the third quarter of 2011 and they were really keeping Europe sales up.
The last 2 quarters we have seen the North turn a little bit negative.
France in particular for us was a tough quarter in the first quarter.
So it would be macroeconomics.
Weather did play in to some extent.
Again that will work itself out in the next couple of months.
And then there is more intense competitive activity.
We're seeing more discounting by the competition in the first quarter.
And yes Greg as you had mentioned we're very pleased to see our share largely flat given the fact that our price points are typically higher.
It is just again shows this overall strength of the brand.
Your next question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just talking about the competitive environment I was just wondering if you could discuss your thoughts on the prospective new competition from Indian.
And then also just to touch on the points that you made in Europe.
Obviously macro is an issue.
The weather will get better.
You've just said you've maintained your market share and you're pleased.
Just wondering what kind of programs or things that you're doing in Europe to offset some of the weakness there.
And then finally if I could just reiterate some of the prior request for FX sensitivity I do think it's important.
I recognize that it's difficult to come up with but a lot of the other companies that we follow do provide such sensitivity and they face the same difficulties.
And I just think it would be helpful removing some of the uncertainty to our modeling.
Okay Felicia.
Let's start with Indian.
So from what we understand is Indian is going to relaunch in late or mid to late summer.
And Felicia we take all our competitors very seriously and we believe competition is good for everyone.
In the U.S.
we have 11 competitors in the heavyweight segment.
And they have fine products good brands and have been investing in their businesses and distribution systems for decades.
Yet the largest of them has 1/8 share of the market and with most others at less than 3% share.
Harley-Davidson has been in the motorcycle business for 110 years.
And during that time we've developed the world's most loyal customers the strongest and the most profitable dealer network most remarkable motorcycles and one of the strongest brands bar none.
Our focus is on delivering our customers on every level through unrivaled products and experiences.
We'll keep an eye on Indian as well as all of our other competitors but we're going to continue to focus on delivering Harley-Davidson to the world.
The second question that you had is in Europe.
What we're doing from a market share perspective number one is I think that is just again the core strength of the brand has served us very well.
When we look at the overall situation in Europe we're managing inventories very tightly.
The pipeline the distribution systems that we have already helps get the right motorcycles to the right place and keeps the inventories at dealerships very low so the working capital is low.
We have rationalized some of the dealer network where appropriate.
We've consolidated some dealers largely in the South.
Dealer profitability is a top priority and making sure that our dealers remain profitable.
They proved very resilient in the 2008 through 2010 period.
And then we continue to work on emerging markets and our growth strategy there of putting up new dealerships.
With regards to the ForEx sensitivity well we duly note your request.
And your final question comes from the line of Jaime Katz from Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk to just a little bit about how people in Europe are financing their bikes? I know you had mentioned constrained credit.
Are you finding that more people are trying to pay cash rather than finance? Or are they using different channels than maybe they have in the past? Jaime this is Larry Hund.
We haven't seen a significant shift.
I would say in Europe what you have is -- for the most part you don't have as well developed what I'll call a sub-prime lending market.
And so people who borrow tend to be more in the prime space.
You do have in Europe a larger percentage that do pay cash for their purchases.
But there's a large percentage of finance as well.
And -- but I wouldn't say we've seen any dramatic shift in that over recent periods.
All right.
Thank you Larry and thank you everyone for your time this morning.
The audio and visual support for today's call will be available at harley-davidson.com.
The audio can also be accessed until May 9 by calling (404) 537-3406 or (855) 859-2056 in the U.S.
The pin number is 29730809#.
We appreciate your investment in Harley-Davidson.
And if you have any questions please contact Investor Relations at (414) 343-8002.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Tracy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Harley-Davidson Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Miss Amy Giuffre Director of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you Tracy and welcome to Harley-Davidson Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
The audio for today's call is being webcast live on harley-davidson.com.
The supporting slides can be accessed on our website by clicking on Company Investor Relations then Events and Presentations.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks that could cause actual results to be materially different.
Those risks include among others matters we have noted in our latest earnings release and filings with the SEC.
Harley-Davidson disclaims any obligation to update information in this call.
This morning you'll hear from Harley-Davidson's CEO Keith Wandell; CFO John Olin; and President of Harley-Davidson Financial Services Larry Hund.
Then we'll open the call for questions.
So let's get started.
Keith? Well thank you Amy.
Good morning and thanks to all of you for joining us on today's call.
We appreciate your interest in Harley-Davidson and your investment.
Harley-Davidson again turned in a strong financial performance in the second quarter with earnings growing more than 13% on a rise in consolidated revenue of nearly 4%.
For the first 6 months EPS grew more than 21% on revenue growth of 6.5%.
We also reported continued improvement in gross and operating margin for Motorcycles and Related Products.
This financial performance is a reflection of the outstanding job that our employees are doing throughout the organization.
Together with our worldwide network of nearly 1 500 dealers and the support of our suppliers we are working as one team and moving in one direction to deliver great experiences for our customers around the world.
While the U.S.
retail environment in the second quarter in the first half proved challenging given the persistently cool wet spring in much of the country we once again gained market share demonstrating the continued strength and appeal of the Harley-Davidson brand.
In the second quarter and first 6 months of 2013 our team achieved a number of milestones.
With the April opening in Stuttgart Germany of our 100th new international dealership since late 2009 we achieved our goal to open 100 to 150 international dealerships by the end of 2014.
In late June new dealership number 104 opened in Salvador Brazil.
Through international dealership openings we're better able to save customers in emerging markets key growth markets and other well established markets.
Also in April we launched our upgraded and expanded e-commerce site in the U.S.
to deliver the premium online experience customers expect.
While still in its early months e-commerce is driving traffic and sales of motor clothes apparel general merchandise and motorcycle accessories.
Of course e-commerce is just one of many ways we're upgrading the retail experience.
We are working closely with our global network of independent dealerships to ensure that customers receive a premium customized retail experience with every visit to Harley-Davidson.
In Motorcycle operations we completed our first year of seasonal surge production at York with great success.
This involved bringing a seasonal workforce to scale up production in the first and second quarters enabling us to be more responsive to customers and dealers.
Our full-time workforce together with our seasonal employees did a great job of implementing seasonal surge and then winding it down all with outstanding product quality and plant safety.
Looking ahead we will be expanding our ability to surge production in 2014 including at our Kansas City assembly operations at Powertrain Operations in Milwaukee.
Last month we continued the yearlong global celebration of the company's 110th anniversary in Rome.
The Harley-Davidson leadership team joined 100 000 plus Harley-Davidson enthusiasts for one of the largest rallies we've ever held outside of the United States.
It was a remarkable event with more than 35 000 motorcycles in some 35 nations represented and a parade of 3 000 riders through Central Rome.
And news of the event went worldwide with more than 2.7 billion media impressions.
Next month our year-long 110th celebration will culminate in Milwaukee over Labor Day weekend with more than 60 bands and nonstop activities over 3 days.
We're expecting thousands of riders from all over the U.S.
and around the world reflecting the reach and strength of our brand.
We will also be ringing the closing bell of the New York Stock Exchange remotely from the Milwaukee celebration on Friday August 30.
All of us at Harley-Davidson look forward to spending time with customers and celebrating with our extended family.
We also look forward with great anticipation to our worldwide Annual Dealer Meeting late next month in December.
We've got an exciting new line of new 2014 motorcycles to unveil including the first products resulting from our product development transformation.
Through this transformation we expect to increasingly bring more new wow products to market in a shorter amount of time and with a greater level of customer and dealer input than ever.
So in summary it's been an exciting first half and there's a lot to look forward to in the back half of the year and beyond.
We continue to deliver on our objectives including international growth operational improvement and financial performance.
Through our strategies for manufacturing product development and the customer retail experience we expect to continue to extend Harley-Davidson's reach to existing and new customers around the world to grow our market leadership of core customers young adults and others in the U.S.
and further increase the strength of the Harley-Davidson brand.
Now I'll turn it over to John for the details on the financials.
Thanks Keith and good morning everyone.
I'll review the second quarter financial results starting on Slide 10.
During the quarter Harley-Davidson Inc.
consolidated revenue was up 3.7% to $1.79 billion.
Our second quarter net income improved to $271.7 million an increase of $24.5 million or 9.9%.
Similarly diluted earnings per share rose to $1.21 per share up 13.1% from the year ago quarter.
Operating income from the motorcycle segment was $357.7 million up 15.5% compared to last year's second quarter.
The strong increase in the motorcycle business was driven by a 4% increase in revenue behind shipments which were up 1.3%.
Additionally Motorcycles segment operating income benefited from higher gross margin and lower restructuring spending.
Operating income at Harley-Davidson Financial Services was down 9.5% behind a higher credit loss provision resulting from lapping last year's credit loss reserve releases.
We are very pleased with the second quarter financial results.
Now let's take a look at retail sales on Slide 11.
Worldwide retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles were up 5.2% during the second quarter driven by an increase in both the U.S.
and international retail sales which rebounded from declines in the first quarter of 2013.
In the U.S.
retail sales bounced back to 4.4% growth after being down 12.7% in the first quarter as a result of very tough Q1 year-over-year comparisons driven by extraordinary weather in 2012.
International retail sales increased to 6.7% growth after being down 1.8% in the first quarter of 2013.
The largest driver of the improvement was positive retail sales in the EMEA region which had been down for the past 2 quarters.
On a year-to-date basis worldwide retail sales remain down slightly with the U.S.
being down 2.7% while international was up 3.3%.
As we look forward to the remainder of the year we feel great about our brand our business and our future.
We expect a strong second half of the year behind significantly improved product availability; very exciting model year 2014 motorcycles which will be introduced in 3.5 weeks; and relatively easy year ago second-half comparisons.
We believe we're on track to deliver our full year shipment guidance of 259 000 to 264 000 motorcycles or up approximately 4.5% to 6.5%.
On Slide 12 you'll see that retail sales in the United States were up 4.4% in the second quarter.
Our share of the U.S.
heavyweight market increased 1.3 percentage points to 53.0% in the second quarter which represents another record quarter of market share.
We do believe retail sales during the quarter were negatively impacted by cooler and wetter-than-normal weather conditions in much of the United States.
And consequently we believe that a portion of the volume that was lost in the second quarter will not be recovered by the end of 2013.
This will put pressure on our ability to reach the high end of our full year shipment guidance.
On a year-to-date basis retail sales in the U.S.
were down 2.7% largely due to the very tough year ago comparison of up 12% driven by some of the mildest weather across the United States in over a 100 years.
Dealer retail inventory in the U.S.
at the end of the second quarter was approximately 11 300 units higher than at the end of Q2 2012.
We believe this inventory increase is appropriate considering we cut over to a model year 2014 production in late June and do not intend to begin shipping motorcycles until August 19.
Also recall that last year retail sales were negatively impacted as inventory was significantly depleted in the period leading up to the launch of our new motorcycles.
This year we believe the overall inventory level is appropriate to bridge dealers to the launch of model year 2014 motorcycles.
As we have discussed relative to last year we continue to expect dealer retail inventory to be higher in the first 3 quarters of this year and be lower in the fourth quarter as we expect to implement surge production at our Kansas City facility next year.
On Slide 13 you'll see second quarter retail sales in our international markets were up 6.7%.
In our EMEA region Q2 retail sales were up 1.0% despite continued softness in Southern Europe especially Spain and Italy.
While these markets remain down they have improved from the previous couple of quarters as we lap the steep declines which began in Q3 of 2011.
Retail sales in the Northern European countries in aggregate were up in the second quarter after being down the past 2 quarters driven by strength in the U.K.
Switzerland and France.
Emerging markets within our EMEA region continue to grow reflecting our investment in the distribution network.
During the first 6 months of 2013 our heavyweight market share in Europe was 12.5% up 0.6 percentage points versus the same period last year.
Our strengthening market share in Europe is encouraging especially in light of the economic situation our competitors' promotional discounting and the introduction of additional models with low price points in that market.
We remain concerned with our European business due to the ongoing recession which continues to result in low consumer confidence high unemployment and constrained credit.
We will continue to focus on what we can control which includes building our brand across Europe and expanding our distribution network in emerging markets in the region.
In the Asia-Pacific region retail sales were up 12.3% driven by a strong growth in Japan and double-digit growth in emerging markets.
In Japan retail sales were up 9.5% despite a challenging economic environment and intense competitive activity.
Latin America region retail sales were up 39.2% driven by Brazil and Mexico.
At the end of this quarter there were 15 dealerships operating in Brazil versus 11 dealerships a year ago.
Finally retail sales in Canada were up 3.6% in the second quarter.
As we have discussed we are very focused on investing in our international businesses.
We can -- we expect to add 100 to 150 international dealer points through 2014.
Over the last 3.5 years we have opened 104 new international dealer points with 2/3 being in emerging markets.
We're very excited about the growth prospects in our international businesses.
On Slide 14 you'll see wholesale shipments of Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the quarter were at the high end of our expected range of 80 000 to 85 000 motorcycles and up 1.3% compared to last year.
During the quarter the mix of custom motorcycles increased over the prior year while Sportster and Touring declined.
As a percent of the total international shipments were about flat to Q2 2012.
On Slide 15 you'll see revenue for the Motorcycle and Related Product segment was up 4.0% in the second quarter behind increased revenues in all business categories.
Motorcycle revenue was up 4.2% behind a 1.3% increase in shipments during the second quarter.
For the quarter the average motorcycle revenue per unit increased $413 from the prior year period primarily driven by favorable mix and higher pricing partially offset by unfavorable currency exchange.
On average our key currencies during the second quarter were weaker against the U.S.
dollar by approximately 3% compared to last year.
During the quarter parts and accessories sales were up 1.5% and general merchandise was up 8.7% compared to Q2 2012.
Turning to restructuring on Slide 16.
In December 2011 we announced our plan to cease wheel manufacturing in Australia and source those components through existing suppliers.
We expected that the transition would cost approximately $30 million be completed by mid-2013 and result in approximately $9 million in annual savings.
Since that time we have transitioned a significant amount of wheel production to suppliers.
We have also optimized the plant to focus on the production of certain complex high finished wheels.
We are now able to produce these intricate wheels in a cost effective and competitive manner and as a result plan to retain limited operations in Australia.
To support this direction a new 4-year labor agreement was ratified by the local union earlier this month.
The financial implication of this decision was a reversal of approximately $5 million in previously expensed termination costs.
This along with other restructuring favorability reduces our expected 2013 restructuring expense from an estimated $13 million to approximately $3 million.
Scaling back our Australian wheel operations will still result in significant savings.
We continue to expect annual savings in 2013 from all restructuring activities of approximately $305 million and approximately $320 million on an annual ongoing basis beginning in 2014.
For the second quarter we recorded a restructuring benefit of $5.3 million versus an expense of $6.2 million in the quarter of last -- second quarter of last year.
We also experienced approximately $5 million in temporary inefficiencies versus approximately $9 million in last year's second quarter.
Since 2009 we have been intensely focused on improving our cost structure and transforming the business to be stronger more flexible and more profitable.
As we exit the restructuring we will continue to focus on improving retail capabilities and strengthening our world-class distribution channel and product development capabilities.
We have established a culture of continuous improvement and we'll continue to look for ways to operate in the most efficient and profitable manner.
On Slide 17 you'll see gross margin in the quarter was 36.9% which was 1.0 percentage points higher than last year.
Volume price mix raw materials and manufacturing were all favorable for the quarter partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency exchange.
Motorcycle pricing was favorable largely due to the model year '13 price increases which were initiated in August of 2012.
Mix was favorable during the quarter due to a higher shipment mix of custom motorcycles and lower mix of Sportsters.
Manufacturing costs were favorable to prior year benefiting from restructuring savings higher production quarter and lower temporary inefficiencies as compared to last year's second quarter.
Foreign currency exchange continue to be significantly unfavorable during the second quarter as a result of a sizable devaluation of the yen the real and the Australian dollar on both a year-over-year basis and within the quarter.
Foreign currency exchange impact reduced our second quarter gross margin by $13.4 million or approximately $0.04 of EPS and reduced our gross margin percentage in the quarter by approximately 0.5 percentage point.
As we look forward we continue to expect foreign currency to adversely impact gross profit in the third quarter.
On Slide 18 operating margin as a percent of revenue for the second quarter was 21.9% up 2.2 percentage points compared to last year's second quarter.
Operating margin for the quarter was favorably impacted by higher gross margin and lower year-over-year restructuring expense with the reversal of a portion of previously expected termination expenses related to our Australian wheel operation.
As a percent of revenue SG&amp;A in the second quarter was 15.3% versus 15.8% in the prior year quarter.
We continue to expect SG&amp;A spending will increase on a year-over-year basis in 2013 and 2014 as we continue to invest in growth initiatives but decrease as a percent of revenue through 2014.
Now moving onto our Financial Services segment on Slide 19.
In the second quarter Harley-Davidson operating profit decreased $7.8 million or 9.5% compared to last year.
The 3 key drivers of second quarter results were: First net interest income was up $3.2 million resulting from lower interest expense primarily driven by lower cost of funds; second the combined change in the provision for retail and wholesale credit losses was unfavorable by $16.1 million on lower credit loss reserve releases and higher retail credit losses on a year-over-year -- on year-over-year recoveries.
As we noted last quarter we lapped $11.2 million of credit loss rate reserve releases from Q2 2012.
Finally operating expenses were lower by $3.3 million.
We're pleased with the performance of our Financial Services business in the second quarter.
On a full year basis we continue to believe HDFS's 2013 operating income will be modestly lower than 2012 as the business benefited from approximately $17 million of 2012 credit loss rate reserve releases which may not repeat in 2013.
Also we expect increased competition will continue to put pressure on HDFS's operating income this year.
Additionally we expect modestly higher retail credit losses in 2013 due to lower recoveries resulting from fewer charge-offs in prior periods changing consumer behavior and HDFS's funding of additional loans which we believe are prudently structured in the near prime and subprime segments.
Finally key benchmark interest rates increased sharply during the second quarter.
We believe HDFS is well positioned to navigate a changing interest rate environment given its diversified funding portfolio which should delay the full impact of interest rate increases over several years.
Therefore we expect minimal impact on HDFS's earnings in 2013 but we believe rising interest rates will result in some compression of HDFS's lending margins over time.
Now Larry will provide more detail on HDFS's operations on Slide 20.
Larry? Thanks John and good morning.
During the second quarter HDFS retail motorcycle loan originations increased 9.9% or $82.1 million compared to the same period last year.
The increase was primarily driven by higher year-over-year new retail motorcycle sales and a 2.3 percentage point increase in retail financing market share.
For the second quarter HDFS retail financing market share of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles sold in the U.S.
was 53.8% compared to 51.5% in the second quarter of 2012.
We are pleased to see this increase despite increased competition in the prime segment.
In response to competitive pressure we initiated certain prime segment rate reductions in both the first and second quarters and these contributed to our second quarter market share gains.
Finance receivables outstanding increased 3.4% compared to a year ago driven by growth in the wholesale portfolio.
We believe the overall loan portfolio is solid comprised of profitable loans funded in both the prime and subprime segments.
In the second quarter of 2013 between 75% and 80% of our new retail loan originations were prime.
Moving on to credit performance on Slide 21.
The 30-day delinquency rate for retail motorcycle loans at June 30 2013 was 2.75% or 7 basis points higher than 2012.
This is consistent with consumer's willingness to take on more debt as well as our actions over the past several years to modestly increase approval rates in the near prime and subprime categories.
As we fund additional loans we believe are prudently structured.
To put this delinquency percentage in the proper perspective this is only the second time in at least the last 12 years where HDFS has finished the second quarter with retail delinquency below 3%.
Annual retail credit losses increased by 22 basis points to 0.8% in the second quarter compared to 2012 primarily driven by lower levels of recovery.
This was expected given that the lower level of credit losses in the past few years has left a smaller pool of potential recovery dollars.
We are pleased with the progress at HDFS as we continue to maintain a strong liquidity position deliver solid credit performance and contribute strong profitability.
We remain focused on enabling sales of Harley-Davidson motorcycles while providing an attractive return to Harley-Davidson Inc.
Now I'll turn it back to John.
Now let's take a look at cash and liquidity on Slide 22.
You'll see that at the end of the quarter we had $1.43 billion of cash and marketable securities.
In addition we had $1.42 billion of available liquidity through bank credit and conduit facilities.
We currently have and intend to continue to maintain a minimum of 12 months of projected liquidity needs in cash and/or committed credit facilities.
During the second quarter there were a couple of transactions related to cash.
First we completed a $650 million asset-backed securitization transaction with a weighted average interest rate of 0.71%.
We also repurchased approximately 1.5 million shares of Harley-Davidson stock for $81 million during the quarter.
As we have stated returning value to our shareholders through increasing dividends and share repurchases is a top priority.
We will continue to evaluate opportunities to enhance value for our shareholders.
Now I'll review the remaining Harley-Davidson Inc.
financials on Slide 23.
I'd like to highlight 2 items on this slide.
First with regards to operating cash flow the company generated operating cash of $390 million during the first 6 months of 2013.
Operating cash flow was up $101 million from last year primarily driven by increased earnings.
And second the tax rate through 6 months was 34.8%.
This reflects the benefit of the R&amp;D credit which was reinstated retroactively with the enactment of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 at the beginning of 2013.
We continue to expect our full year effective tax rate to be approximately 34.8%.
On Slide 24 you'll see that for 2013 we continue to expect Harley-Davidson motorcycle shipments to be between 259 000 and 264 000 motorcycles on a worldwide basis up approximately 4.5% to 6.5% from 2012.
We believe the underlying demand fundamentals in the U.S.
are strong.
However as I said earlier the impact of the poor weather in the second quarter will put pressure on our ability to reach the high end of our full year shipment guidance.
During the third quarter we expect to ship between 51 000 and 56 000 motorcycles which is in line with last year's second quarter shipments of 52 793 units.
We continue to expect full year 2013 gross margin will be between 35.25% and 36.25%.
As we look forward to the second half of this year we expect gross margins to come down from the first half levels behind lower production and unfavorable currency exchange.
Capital expenditures in 2013 are expected to be between $200 million and $220 million.
Looking back we're pleased with our second quarter results and key accomplishments.
During the quarter we successfully completed first year surge manufacturing at York in doing so maintained the highest level of quality and safety as we surged our workforce.
Celebrated our 110th anniversary in Rome with over 100 000 Harley-Davidson enthusiasts from 35 nations delivered shareholder value through dividends and share repurchases and fulfill dreams of personal freedom for new and existing customers around the world.
We continue to position the company for long-term success by remaining focused on executing our growth strategies and delivering strong margins strong returns and value to our shareholders.
Thank you for your continued confidence and investment in Harley-Davidson.
And now let's take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question is from Tim Conder with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Gentlemen a couple of things here.
Could you make any comments on the retail cadence and the potential effect that retail of discontinuing the Road Glide? Secondly Larry you talked about getting a little more aggressive I think in the subprime and how you've taken steps to mitigate that.
Can you contrast your approach to subprime this cycle versus last cycle? Hi this is John.
I'll start out with the first question Tim.
each year we bring models in and out of our lineup as we introduce new models.
And this is quite a common practice for us.
And we did announce to the dealer network that we would be exiting the Road Glide for the year as we retooled it and refreshed that model.
While the Road Glide is a strong model or those 2 Road Glide models are strong for us they represent a relatively small portion of our overall Touring sales.
And we don't expect any large impact from that taking those units out for the next model year.
Tim this is Larry.
On the on your question about subprime and how do we handle it different this cycle versus last cycle.
We have invested a lot over the last several years in our data warehouse and our analytical capabilities.
And we are much more data driven in the way we approach subprime lending versus I would say we're probably more intuitive in the last cycle.
So I think that we have provided a lot of training good tools to our underwriters to use in making credit decisions and it's driving much more consistent credit decisions versus what we did the last time.
It also allows us to test certain things see how changes perform.
And if they don't perform well then we quickly back out of those.
So I think this investment in the analytic capabilities will pay off or us.
Your next question comes from Craig Kennison with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I was going to ask whether you asked the Pope to pray for better weather but since I only get one question I'll focus on the opportunity to raise price.
The way I see it you've got a dynamic environment where you've done the right thing to get scarcity back into the brand reduce inventory you've got new products coming.
But you've also got more competition in this space.
Do you still see an opportunity I guess to raise wholesale prices given all the work you've done? With regards to overall pricing power we've talked about for quite some time.
We have worked hard at making sure that we've got our supply and demand in balance.
And the brand has been very strong.
For the last 4 years we've gained share.
Matter of fact out of 15 of the last 19 quarters we've gained share.
And so we will as always evaluate the opportunity to raise prices.
And we'll announce those with our new model year coming up here in about 3.5 weeks.
But in general we do believe that we possess pricing power as we move into the future.
Your next question is from Adam Jonas from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Guys a couple of questions.
First can you comment on used bike prices? And also a couple two part on the yen.
Any impact on the competitive side from the weakening end that you could witness at all and more tactically on your results? Could we expect that the FX impact on gross margin could be worse in the second half than in the first half in particular for the yen as your hedges roll? Adam with regards to used bike prices we've been in a period of stability since the fourth quarter of 2011.
And we do not see again -- both the new and used bike prices have been growing at the same rate or declining at the same rate in the case of the first quarter or the first half of this year.
But overall used bike pricing has been very stable for the last 4 to 5 quarters.
The second question is with regards to yen.
We have not seen anything directly with regards to competitive price pressures from our Japanese competitors.
And again remind you that when the yen was strengthening and we didn't see a whole lot of price movement by our Japanese competitors during those years.
And we believe at that time they took out a fair amount of profit.
Don't know what's going to happen in this round but at this point we are not seeing higher levels of discounting.
And perhaps they're certainly more profitable but we'll have to continue to wait and watch that but no signs yet.
And in terms of the financial results clearly the devaluation of the yen as well as in this quarter The Australian dollar and the Brazilian real had a significant financial impact.
When we look at the second quarter overall revenue was down $13.7 million and the yen in particular devalued 19% from the year ago second quarter.
It did cause a financial hit of $13.4 million.
And what I can tell you is #1 is we didn't expect that big of -- unfavorability in the quarter and there was a significant amount of devaluation that occurred within the quarter.
But as we look forward we do expect currency to be unfavorable.
We do not expect it to be at the same magnitude that we've seen in the first half.
But again things are certainly always very dynamic and changing in the world of currency.
We do expect it to be unfavorable but not to the same extent as the first half.
Your next question is from James Hardiman with Longbow Research.
Talk a little bit about the set up as we head into the model year crossover here in a few weeks.
I guess first question I mean you guys have certainly been pretty optimistic in terms of the products that you're going to be bringing to the table.
And I think the dealers have certainly picked up on that.
You think there's any chance that some of your customers in anticipation of that excitement may have delayed some of their purchases during the second quarter? And I guess secondly from a competitive standpoint with the reintroduction of Indian and some other competitive products out there and on the way how susceptible do you think your customer base is to maybe switching to any American-made competitors? This is Keith.
I'll just jump in here for a second.
We also have -- this is Keith I'm sorry; I'll jump in here for a second.
We also have Matt Levatich here with us too and he may have a couple of comments about that.
But clearly we're going to launch our new lineup next month.
And I think we don't really talk a lot about the products that are in the pipelines.
So my guess is that while there might be some speculation on the part of our dealers and our customers I think it's mostly that I think we've got our inventories pretty well online.
And we think we're in pretty good shape in terms of going into this 2014 lineup.
I know our dealers will be working hard to get -- to move all of the 2013 products.
And again I don't think there's a massive amount of those in the system.
So I think we should be in pretty good shape on that.
As far as any of those you will see.
I mean it's a brand that's been in and out of the market a few times over the last 50 60 years whatever.
And I think the issue is going to be for them getting the new products launched getting them in the marketplace what kind of a dealer network gets set up and all those kind of things.
I mean we take all of our competition very seriously.
We're not taking anything lightly but we believe that the way we've positioned our company and how we've transformed product development and the pipeline of products that we have coming not just in '14 but '14 '15 '16 and beyond our job here is to just continue to bring great products to market and make sure that we're winning with great products.
Your next question is from Greg Badishkanian with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just regarding the second half of 2013 you mentioned a few drivers were new product availability the new products and easier comparisons.
I'm wondering which is the maybe the biggest factor.
And then also just from a comparison perspective maybe just helping us think about the weather in the second quarter to come up with a more normalized trend line.
And I know John sometimes you look at the sunshine states versus the non-sunshine.
Is there a way to breakout kind of the maybe the regions that were not affected by weather which I know had an impact in a lot of the leisure vehicle companies? Okay Greg I'm not going to quantify the 3 but as we look forward to the second half we do think there's 3 very strong things in our favor.
And let me go through them each real briefly as they improve product availability.
If you recall last year and it's particular in the third quarter we ran dry of product.
Pump ran dry.
And retail sales were adversely affected in the United States by 5.2%.
And as we come into this year's second half we've got 11 300 more units.
And we've got a bridge of period from late June to August 19.
And now we've got a lot more products to do it than what we did last year and not having enough product last year was an issue.
And that was -- that's the piece leading up until the trial lunch.
And again last year in terms of product availability when we did launch our product in the third week of August last year we did not have tremendous amount of firepower.
If you recall we were putting in ERP system in our York facility and we lost 40% of our July production.
So it took us 8 weeks to get back to year ago levels and we would expect a much quicker replenishment this year.
So overall product availability will be very strong in the second half and in particular in the third quarter.
The second is the model year product.
And as Keith had mentioned in the preamble we're very excited about it.
It is the first product that we've developed since the transformation under a new product development methodology.
And we're excited for that.
And everyone has got to wait the 3.5 weeks to see what it is.
And then finally when we talk about the year-over-year comps is the first quarter of last year of 2012 was up 9.3% and the second half was up about 2%.
So just generally if you look at that much easier as we look to the second half.
So all 3 of them we're very excited about and we believe will drive a strong second half for us.
The second piece that you mentioned is weather.
And you asked about second-half weather but let's talk a little bit about the second quarter.
We did have challenging weather as everyone knows and most of that weather was unfavorable in the eastern 2/3 of the United States.
It was cold and damp and it was for a very prolonged period of time.
When we do look at the pieces that were not affected by weather which is really the western 1/3 of the United States we saw actually in the second quarter double-digit growth.
And we have seen some strong growth in the first quarter which was pretty unaffected by weather as well but that accelerated in the second quarter and we saw double digits.
Now when we look at the western states dealers that represents slightly less than 20% of our overall volume.
The other 80% of the U.S.
was in the low single digits and again clearly affected by weather.
When we look forward we have no idea what weather will be but last year's weather from August through December was much more in the normal range.
So we don't anticipate any issues with weather as we move forward but you never can tell.
Your next question is from Patrick Archambault with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question regarding the move to surge at Kansas City.
And then in Milwaukee what kind of sort of disruptions from an operating perspective can we expect or should we see sort of stepped up temporary inefficiencies surrounding those changes as we get in the second half? And then related to that maybe you can give us a sense of how the mix will be impacted? I guess since they make the lower mix bikes might you actually see a positive offset from kind of York products becoming a bigger part of the pie? So really those would be my 2 questions.
When we look at moving to surge in Kansas City in 2014 we do not expect any disruption with regards to overall production.
Remember that Kansas City has been producing similar to the way that we transformed our York facility.
They only focus on fabrication of frames tanks fenders assembly and paint so that's all been set.
So there's not a lot that's going need to go on within it.
It is more of the same thing that we had to do in York after we transformed the plant is to bring in temporary workers get them trained on the line and producing more or further utilizing our factories in the first half.
So we feel great about that as we move forward.
We had a great experience in York and we don't foresee any issues in KC.
So we expect no impact on operations or productions or the mix of our product.
You did mention temporary inefficiencies and we do expect as we get that operation started up that we will have some temporary inefficiencies with the training of those workers and the hiring and those types of things.
So I think this year we've got -- we expected half of temporary inefficiencies to go away from I think 36 last year to about 17 this year.
And we would expect a fair amount of inefficiencies to fall off next year but they won't go completely away because of such things such as the startup of surge operations in Kansas City.
Your next question is from Felicia Hendrix with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Keith you reiterated your production guidance but then you said you wouldn't make the high end.
So I'm just confused as to why you keep the high end out there? And I'm wondering by taking the high end off the table if there's any gross margin implication from that? And then also while you've been very clear that weather played an impact on sales in the quarter I'm just wondering if there's -- and also obviously the international business is tough.
But I'm wondering if you're seeing any impacts on your business domestically at all from the economy? Has anything changed since you last adjust us the last quarter? Felicia I'll take the question with regards to the guidance.
Our guidance is 259 000 to 264 000 units.
And what we said is the second quarter and the prolonged weather is we lost some sales.
We think we'll get some of them back over the remainder of the year but not all of them.
And when weather affects us and it's a month or 2 a customer comes in and markedly has to buy the bike in April because of weather.
That's not a big deal.
And what we're seeing here is that somebody that may have come in in March and now it's July and over half the riding season is done; we may see that person wait until the next riding season.
So we do believe that there is an impact on our full year shipments this year due to weather in the second quarter.
We did not say that we would not make the high end of guidance.
We're just acknowledging the fact that we don't believe all of the volume that was delayed or the purchases that were delayed in the second quarter are going to be sold this year.
And therefore that will put pressure on the upward end of hitting our guidance.
And so our guidance is 259 000 to 264 000 units.
With regards to gross margin our guidance there is 35.25% to 36.25% there's no change.
The only impact of selling less in the second quarter would be as we aggressively manage supply and lines met demand if we come down in the range.
That would slightly affect some of the incremental margin and gross margin.
But again feel very comfortable with our 35.25% to 36.25% guidance that's out there.
Research Division</strong> Keith follow-up to the on the -- does anyone want to address my economy -- my question about the domestic economy is this affecting your sales at all? Well I think we've been -- this is Keith I'm sorry.
I think we've been very consistent for the last several quarters in saying that we've been very cautiously optimistic about the economy.
If you see things like in June home sales are higher than they've been for some time and that's certainly encouraging.
I still question whether home equity values are -- have risen to the point where they were before which we think is something that certainly affects us in the United States unemployment underemployment is still rather high.
So we think that there's still somewhat of a drag in the economy.
And when you look at Europe you know that I think yesterday there was some news out of Europe that consumer sentiment had improved somewhat but was still lower than what it had been over the last couple of years.
We know that certainly the Southern European countries like Italy and Spain and Portugal and others continue to struggle quite a bit.
So I mean we think it's a kind of a mixed bag.
And for us it's really about -- I mean when you go and you look at what happened in Rome and you look at 100 000 enthusiasts being there and 35 000 bikes and the people from 35 different nations I mean we know that the affinity and the affection for this brand is as high and higher than it's ever been.
So our job is to in spite of the economic drags that we see our job is to continue to provide great customer experiences and make sure that we're bringing new customers into the family and satisfying their dreams of personal freedom and we think we're doing that.
So we think that's how we're sort of offsetting all those other issues.
Your next question is from Gerrick Johnson with BMO Capital Markets.
I was wondering why we didn't see better growth in parts and accessories? Why that trailed both motorcycle shipments and retail sales? Gerrick this is John.
Parts and accessories a fair portion of that revenue is driven by repairs and service parts.
And what we saw in the second quarter is that report -- repair orders to our dealers were down about 10%.
And so basically with the bad weather not only does it affect retail sales of motorcycles but it affects the miles ridden.
And as customers are out riding motorcycles they need new tires and oil and they need to do their checkups and whatnot.
We've seen that being down on a year-over-year basis.
So again the weather impacted the miles ridden this year.
And the converse of that is last year's weather was so extraordinarily good customers were out riding more and needing those things on a year-over-year basis.
So in the quarter we were up about 1.5% which was a little bit lighter than our retail sales at 4.5%.
But it was driven by that side of the parts and accessories business.
Okay so you're not seeing any decline in the amount of customization that guys are doing to their bikes or the amount of accessories they're buying when they buy their new unit? No.
Your last question is from Jaime Katz with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> You guys had mentioned some competitive promotions in Europe.
And I'm curious how you guys feel you're holding up with pricing there? And then what do you actually see that international percentage of sales getting to? Can it get to 40% or 50% annually or do you kind of have a do you have a long-term goal for that? Hi Jaime this is John.
Given the overall environment in Europe we are seeing a lot of price competition.
Harley-Davidson stays away from it sometimes our dealers do but we try not to price promote in any way.
And it just makes that price disparity between our positioning which is a super price point position versus some of our competitors a little bit greater.
As we look at our European business and understand how tough it is in Europe this is clearly a tremendous bright spot for us.
So we're through 6 months of this year our share is up 6/10 of a percentage point again given that super premium price point.
So it goes to what Keith was saying the brand is highly desired around the world and in particular in Europe as well.
And they're willing to pay the price to have a Harley-Davidson and ride the best.
But it does affect the consumer decision at times.
We keep a close eye on it and chooses in most cases not to participate in any way shape or form.
Jaime with regards to the overall market share and where we can get I can't provide a forward look at that.
What I can tell you is that 10 of last 11 years we've gained share the only sure time we did not gain share was last year.
And I think we lost a 1/10 of a point and that was with the onset of a lot of the issues in Europe.
And so again that's why it feel so good to bounce back a bit here and be up 6/10 of a point.
We feel very strong about the business we feel very strong about the distribution network that we've built and the overall desire for the brand.
But I know we're going to continue to do what we do best and build the brand and the distribution network.
And John I think a good example of that is what just happened in Rome.
Yes absolutely.
Maybe the Pope was blessing us.
Thank you for your time this morning everyone.
The audio and visuals for today's call will be available at harley-davidson.com.
The audio can also be accessed until August 9 by calling (404) 537-3406 or (855) 859-2056 in the U.S.
The pin number is 99216749#.
We appreciate your investment in Harley-Davidson.
If you have any questions please contact Investor Relations at (414) 343-8002.
Thank you.
Thank you for joining ladies and gentlemen.
This now conclude today's conference call.
You may disconnect.
Good morning my name is Will and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Amy Giuffre you may begin your conference.
Thank you Will and welcome to Harley-Davidson's third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
The audio for today's call is being webcast live on harley-davidson.com.
The supporting slides can be accessed on our website by clicking on Company Investor Relations then Events and Presentations.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks that could cause actual results to be materially different.
Those risks include among others matters we have noted in our latest earnings release and filings with the SEC.
Harley-Davidson disclaims any obligation to update information in this call.
This morning you'll hear from Harley-Davidson's CEO Keith Wandell; CFO John Olin; and President of Harley-Davidson Financial Services Larry Hund.
Then we'll open the call for questions.
So let's get started.
Keith? Thank you Amy.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today on the call.
As you saw in the earnings release Harley-Davidson had a great third quarter.
We had strong financial performance; we had strong 2014 new product launch which resulted in good retail sales; and we celebrated the 110th anniversary in Milwaukee.
And all the credit goes to our employees our dealers and our suppliers who all continued to do an outstanding job of delivering on our key strategies and manufacturing product development and retail.
All of these folks come to work everyday with a relentless focus on providing our customers a great experience.
Just 2 months ago in Denver we introduced our new 2014 motorcycles including the Project Rushmore bikes and these have generated tremendous excitement from dealers and customers alike.
The 2014 model year rollout was the biggest launch of new motorcycle models in the company's history and we executed the most comprehensive marketing reveal ever to support it.
The results at retail speak for themselves.
When the initial 45 days at retail since launch the Rushmore motorcycles sparked the largest year-over-year new model sales increase in 20 years.
Sales were up strongly in both the United States and internationally.
And it was the best international model year launch ever in terms of initial volume.
And these motorcycles sold extremely well among both our traditional core customers in the U.S.
as well as our outreach customers consisting of young adults 18 to 34 women Hispanic and African-American riders.
For each of these demographic groups the top-selling model year '14 bike has been the Rushmore model.
It all added up to a great quarter at retail.
The third quarter was big for Harley-Davidson in other ways too especially the 110th anniversary weekend in Milwaukee.
Just 10 days after the 2014 model year launch thousands of riders converged on Milwaukee over Labor Day weekend for the kind of huge party and experience that only Harley-Davidson can throw.
The event brought riders together from all walks of life including H.O.G.
members from Egypt Taiwan Greenland Germany and beyond.
In all more than 40 countries were represented.
It was the culmination of a year-long global 110th anniversary celebration on 6 continents that connected millions of Harley-Davidson fans around the world.
And it was covered by the media far and wide resulting in 1.2 billion media impressions for the Milwaukee event alone.
The 110th anniversary and the 2014 new model launch were the latest milestones in what has been a great year so far.
And as we look at the remainder of the year and beyond we're excited about the opportunities for the brand and the company.
And while we've achieved a lot we expect to continue to reap the benefits of our product development manufacturing and retail strategies for the company and for our customers alike.
As always there's more to do and we take nothing for granted.
We continue to double down on the progress we've made and remain focused on building a successful business for the long-term.
So again I wanted to just thank all of you for your continued interest and investment in Harley-Davidson.
And now I'll turn it over to John Olin to give the details behind the numbers.
Thanks Keith and good morning everyone.
I'll review the third quarter financial results starting on Slide 9.
During the quarter Harley-Davidson Inc.
consolidated revenue was up 7.5% to $1.34 billion.
Our third quarter net income improved to $162.7 million an increase of $28.7 million or 21.4%.
Similarly diluted earnings per share rose to $0.73 per share up 23.7% from the year-ago quarter.
Operating income from the motorcycle segment was $175.5 million up 21.2% compared to last year's third quarter.
The strong increase in the motorcycle business was driven by an 8.4% increase in revenue behind a shipment increase of 2.3% and a favorable shift in mix.
Additionally motorcycle segment operating income benefited from higher gross margin and lower restructuring spending partially offset by an increase in SG&amp;A.
Operating income at Harley-Davidson Financial Services was up 5.1% behind increased net interest income.
The net income also benefited from a favorable tax adjustment in the quarter.
In all we are very pleased with our third quarter financial results.
Now let's take a look at retail sales on Slide 10.
Worldwide retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles were up 15.5% during the third quarter driven by an increase in both the U.S.
and international retail sales.
Third quarter retail sales results reflected a very positive response to our 2014 model year motorcycles and improved product availability in the U.S.
In the U.S.
retail sales were up 20.1% versus the third quarter of 2012 and international retail sales were up 6.5% versus prior year behind improved sales across all region.
On a year-to-date basis worldwide retail sales were up 4.1%.
As we look forward to the remainder of the year we feel great about our brand our business and our future.
We expect continued momentum behind our very exciting model year 2014 motorcycles.
On Slide 11 you'll see retail sales in the U.S.
were up 20.1% in the third quarter.
Retail sales growth in the quarter were positively impacted by the exciting and well-received model year 2014 motorcycles significantly improved motorcycle availability and relatively easy comps to last year.
Our share of the U.S.
heavyweight market increased 1.7 percentage points to 56.5% in the third quarter which represents another record quarter of market share.
On a year-to-date basis retail sales in the U.S.
were up 4.1%.
We exited the first half of 2013 with retail sales down 2.7% which was below our expectations for a very weather-challenged second quarter.
At that time we said we believe that a portion of the 2013 selling seasons retail sales may not be recovered by the end of 2013.
Despite the strong third quarter results we continue to believe that the loss sales in the second quarter of this year will continue to put pressure on achieving the high end of shipment guidance.
Turning to U.S.
dealer retail inventory.
Retail inventory was up approximately 4 200 motorcycles at the end of Q3 compared to 2012.
Availability of some new models was very tight in the quarter which is to be expected following a model launch of this magnitude.
We do not believe tight inventory levels on select models will result in loss sales.
Overall we have been comfortable with dealer retail inventory levels throughout 2013.
We believe the dealer-inventory levels in Q1 through Q3 are approaching the levels that we believe are aligned with our flexible manufacturing [indiscernible].
We continue to expect Q4 retail inventory to be down compared to last year as we prepare to implement surge production at our Kansas City facility early next year and as we remain committed to aggressively managing supply in line with demand.
On Slide 12 you'll see third quarter retail sales in our international markets were up 6.5%.
In our EMEA region Q3 retail sales were up 1.6% driven by our investment in emerging markets which were up 28.3%.
Our European markets remain down by 2.7% on a year-over-year basis.
We continued to see some modest growth in the northern Europe country led by the U.K.
and Germany while the southern European companies remain down Italy posted its first year-over-year quarterly increase after being down for 8 consecutive quarters.
During the first 9 months of 2013 our heavyweight market share in Europe was 12.6% up 0.8 percentage points versus the same period last year.
Our market share gains in Europe are encouraging especially in light of the economic situation and promotional discounting by our competitors.
We remain concerned with the ongoing economic challenges in Europe and the potential impact on our European business.
We will continue to focus on what we can control which includes building our brand experience across Europe and expanding our distribution network in emerging markets in the region.
In the Asia-Pacific region retail sales were up 10.0% driven by strong growth in emerging markets especially India and China.
Latin America region retail sales were up 15.6% driven by Brazil and Mexico.
At the end of this quarter there were 15 dealerships operating in Brazil versus 11 dealerships in the year-ago quarter.
Finally retail sales in Canada were up 7.0% in the third quarter.
As we have discussed we are very focused on investing in our international businesses.
We are targeting 100 to 150 international new dealer points through 2014 and over the last 3.75 years we have opened 110 new dealer points with 2/3 being in emerging markets.
We are very excited about the growth prospects in our international businesses.
On Slide 13 you'll see wholesale shipments of Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the quarter were around the midpoint of our expected range of 51 000 to 56 000 motorcycles and up 2.3% compared to last year.
During the quarter the mix of touring motorcycles increased 7.6 percentage points over the prior year to support the initial shipments of new Rushmore models and as we lap last year's touring production which was impacted by the implementation of the ERP system at our York facility.
As a total -- as a percent of the total international shipments were 3.5 percentage points higher than Q3 2012.
On Slide 14 you'll see revenue for the motorcycles and related product segment was up 8.4% in the third quarter including a 10.7% increase in motorcycle revenue largely driven by the strong mix of our touring bikes.
During the quarter we introduced our new 2014 model year motorcycles.
Wholesale and MSRP prices have increased by an average of about 3.5%.
By region U.S.
prices are up roughly 4.25%; EMEA up 1.5%; and Asia-Pacific and Latin America each up about 2.5%.
The significant content which was added to the 2014 model year motorcycles is expected to increase costs by 2.75% resulting in wholesale pricing in excess of cost of about 3/4 of a percent.
Despite the strong revenue and profit improvement that we expect from these pricing actions it is important to note that we expect our model year 2014 price increase net of related costs will dilute motorcycle gross margin percent by roughly 0.5 point over the next year.
For the quarter average motorcycle revenue per unit increased $1 203 from the prior year period primarily driven by favorable mix and higher pricing partially offset by unfavorable currency exchange.
On average our key currencies during the third quarter were weaker against the U.S.
dollar by approximately 7% compared to last year.
During the quarter parts and accessories sales were up 7.0% driven by the success of certain innovative product categories such as LED lighting and audio.
General Merchandise was down 12.6% compared to Q3 2012 due to lapping the strong sell in of 110th anniversary apparel and accessories which began in Q3 of 2012.
Turning to restructuring on Slide 15.
Since 2009 we have been intensely focused on improving our cost structure and transforming the business to be stronger more flexible and more profitable.
As we exit our restructuring activities we will continue to focus on improving the retail customer experience strengthening our world-class distribution channels and accelerating our product development capabilities.
We have established a culture of continuous improvements and will continue to look for ways to operate in the most efficient and profitable manner.
We continue to expect annual savings in 2013 from all restructuring activities of approximately $305 million and approximately $320 million on an annual ongoing basis beginning in 2014.
For the third quarter we recorded a restructuring expense of $0.6 million versus an expense of $9.2 million in Q3 of last year.
We also experienced approximately $3 million in temporary inefficiencies versus approximately $11 million in last year's third quarter.
On Slide 16 you'll see gross margin in the quarter was 35.3% which was 0.6 percentage points higher than last year.
Volume price mix raw materials and manufacturing were all favorable for the quarter partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency exchange.
Foreign currency exchange continued to be unfavorable during the third quarter as a result of the sizable devaluation of the Yen the Real and the Australian dollar on the year-over-year basis.
Foreign currency exchange impacted -- impact reduced our third quarter's gross margin by about $4 million or approximately $0.01 of EPS.
As we look forward we continue to expect foreign currency to adversely impact gross profits in the third quarter -- the fourth quarter.
Favorable manufacturing costs reflect the benefits from restructuring and lower temporary inefficiencies as compared to last year's third quarter.
Manufacturing costs however were adversely impacted by higher-than-normal start-up costs for our new model year motorcycles.
Start-up costs were approximately $7 million higher-than-normal driven by the extraordinary level of content added to our new models.
On Slide 17 operating margin as a percent of revenue for the third quarter was 14.9% up 1.6 percentage points compared to last year's third quarter.
Operating margin for the quarter was favorably impacted by higher gross margin and lower year-over-year restructuring expense partially offset by higher SG&amp;A spending.
SG&amp;A dollars were up $16.2 million or 7.2% compared to Q3 2012.
The increase included incremental spendings to support the Rushmore product launch the 110th anniversary and continued investment in our growth initiatives.
We continued to expect SG&amp;A spending will increase on a year-over-year basis in 2013 as we continue to invest in growth.
Additionally last week we issued 2 voluntary recalls affecting roughly 29 000 Trikes Touring and Softail motorcycles.
We anticipate a one-time $4.9 million charge to SG&amp;A in the fourth quarter.
Now moving onto the Financial Services segment on Slide 18.
In the third quarter HDFS operating profit increased $3.7 million or 5.1% compared to last year.
The 2 primary factors impacting Q3 results were: First net interest income was up $6.8 million driven by a lower cost of funds; and second the change in the provision for retail credit losses was unfavorable by $6.5 million on higher credit loss reserves due to increased receivables and higher retail credit losses.
We are pleased with HDFS's third quarter performance.
On a full year basis we continue to believe HDFS's 2013 operating income will be modestly lower than 2012 which benefited from approximately $17 million of 2012 credit loss reserve rate releases.
Going forward we continue to expect pressure on HDFS's operating income as a result of increased competition and modestly higher retail credit losses due to lower recoveries changing consumer behavior and HDFS's funding of additional subprime loans which we believe are prudently structured.
Finally while key benchmark interest rates have increased during the year we continued to believe HDFS is well-positioned to navigate the changing interest rate environment.
Given its diversified funding portfolio we expect higher interest rates to only have a minimal impact on HDFS's earnings in 2013.
But we believe rising interest rates will result in compression of HDFS's lending margins over time.
Now Larry will provide more detail on HDFS's operations on Slide 19.
Larry? Thanks John and good morning.
During the third quarter HDFS retail motorcycle loan originations increased 29.9% or $190.2 million compared to the same period last year.
The increase was primarily driven by higher year-over-year new retail motorcycle sales and a 7.7 percentage point increase in retail financing market share.
For the third quarter HDFS retail financing market share of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles sold in the U.S.
increased to 60% compared to 52.3% in the third quarter of 2012.
The primary drivers of the market share gain during the quarter were the pricing changes in the prime segment which were initiated in the second quarter in response to increasing competition and the strong sales of Touring product.
Finance receivables outstanding increased 4.5% compared to a year ago driven by growth in the retail and wholesale portfolios.
We believe the overall loan portfolio is solid comprised of profitable loans funded in both the prime and subprime segments.
In the third quarter of 2013 between 75% and 80% of our new loan originations were prime.
Moving on to credit performance on Slide 20.
The 30-day delinquency rate for retail motorcycle loans at September 30 2013 was 3.11% or 13 basis points lower than 2012.
This is the lowest third quarter 30-day delinquency rate in over 10 years.
Year-to-date annual retail credit losses increased by 23 basis points to 0.88% compared to 2012 primarily driven by lower levels of recoveries from accounts charged off in prior years.
This was expected given the lower level of credit losses in the past few years which left a smaller pool of potential 2013 recovery dollars.
In addition in the third quarter HDFS experienced a modest increase in losses due to lower recovery values of reprocessed motorcycles following the launch of our new Rushmore motorcycles.
We are pleased with the progress at HDFS as we continue to maintain a strong liquidity position deliver a solid credit performance and contribute strong profitability.
We remain focused on enabling sales of Harley-Davidson motorcycles while providing an attractive return to Harley-Davidson Inc.
Now let me turn it back to John.
Thanks Larry.
Now let's take a look at cash and liquidity on Slide 21.
You will see that at the end of the quarter we had $1.15 billion of cash and marketable securities.
In addition we had $1.56 billion of available liquidity through bank credit and conduit facilities.
We currently have and intend to continue to maintain a minimum of 12 months of projected liquidity needs in cash and/or committed credit facilities.
During the third quarter we repurchased approximately 1.6 million shares of Harley-Davidson stock for $92.8 million.
As we have stated returning value to our shareholders through increasing dividends and share repurchases is a top priority.
We will continue to evaluate opportunities to enhance value for our shareholders.
Now I'll review the remaining Harley-Davidson Inc.
financials on Slide 22.
I would like to highlight 2 items on this slide.
First with regards to operating cash flow the company generated operating cash of $825.1 million during the first 9 months of 2013.
Operating cash flow was up $112.6 million from last year primarily driven by increased earnings.
And second the tax rate through 9 months was 34.3% compared to 35.3% in the year-ago period.
This reflects the benefit of the retroactive reinstatement of the research and development tax credit and an adjustment of the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets in the third quarter of 2013.
We now expect a full year effective tax rate to be approximately 34.7%.
On Slide 23 you'll see that for 2013 we continue to expect Harley-Davidson motorcycles shipments to be between 259 000 and 264 000 motorcycles on a worldwide basis up approximately 4.5% to 6.5% from 2012.
During the fourth quarter we expect to ship between 45 000 and 50 000 motorcycles which is in line with last year's fourth quarter shipments of 47 067 motorcycles.
We believe the underlying demand fundamentals for Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the U.S.
are strong.
However as I said last quarter we believe we lost sales volume as a result of poor weather in the second quarter which will put pressure on our ability to reach the high end of our full year shipment guidance.
We continue to expect full year 2013 gross margin will be between 35.25% and 36.25%.
As we look forward to the fourth quarter we expect our gross margin percent will be in line with last year's fourth quarter.
Gross margin will reflect the ongoing benefits from restructuring savings and lower temporary inefficiencies.
However as we have discussed production will be lower than last year's fourth quarter as we prepare to implement surge manufacturing in Kansas City earlier next year.
Q4 mix is expected to be unfavorable as we lap the higher-than-normal 46% Touring mix at last year's fourth quarter due to the Q3 2012 ERP implementation.
We also expect currency exchange to have an adverse impact on the fourth quarter gross margin.
And finally we expect Q4 gross margin percent will reflect the dilutive impact of our model year 2014 price increase net of related costs.
Capital expenditures in 2013 are expected to be between $200 million and $220 million.
Looking back we are pleased with our third quarter results and our key accomplishments.
During the quarter we launched the most significant new model year in our history celebrated our 110th anniversary in Milwaukee and delivered shareholder value through dividends and share repurchases.
We continued to position the company for the long-term success by remaining focused on executing our growth strategies and delivering strong margins strong returns and value to our shareholders.
Thank you for your continued confidence and investment in Harley-Davidson.
And now let's take your questions.
.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> If we could -- if I could just ask a question on gross margins for a moment.
I really appreciate all the color that you've given it's very helpful.
Just wondering if we could understand a bit -- how long you think it might take to just get up to learning curve on the new bikes? And then you gave us color on the fourth quarter I know you don't like to give guidance I'm not asking for guidance.
But just wondering if you could kind of frame for us some perhaps some pluses on the gross margin side to think about next year.
And I'm asking specifically because the Street has almost a 90 basis point improvement in gross margin expectations for next year.
Okay this is John.
Thanks Felicia.
With regards to -- I think the first question was centered around gross margin in the third quarter.
And in the preamble we had talked about increased costs in the third quarter due to starting up the Rushmore model year.
So given the complexity the size the number of models of both Rushmore and ABS on our Sportsters and some of the other models that we introduced we had higher-than-typical startup costs of about $7 million.
So on a year-over-year basis the quarter benefited from lower temporary inefficiencies in terms of restructuring.
We had $11 million in the prior year versus $3 million this year and a lot of that favorability was really taken up by the fact that the startup costs were higher than they typically would be.
They are up to speed the plan is up to speed and we don't expect any additional costs or that's -- so kind of a one-time startup for Rushmore.
We don't expect any costs on a go-forward basis.
As we look at next year's gross margin we'll provide more guidance in our Q4 conference call.
But on some of the positives that we anticipate for next year certainly the pricing and incremental volume that we would anticipate some of the headwinds may continue to be currency and then perhaps raw material costs.
But again we'll give more insight to that at the end of the first quarter conference call.
Your next question comes from Kevin Milota from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could just clarify John the negative impact from the model year '14 bikes.
Was it 50-basis-point negative impact on the gross margin front? It was about -- thanks Kevin.
With regards to the startup cost about $7 million would have been -- about 60 basis points 6/10 of a margin point.
Your next question comes from the line of James Hardiman with Longbow Research.
I guess a follow-up to that last question.
Could you help us frame what the net pricing impact would have been to gross margins in the third quarter? It sounds like that was a negative.
You gave us that for next year or over the next year what that negative impact was.
Can you help us out with that in the third quarter? And then I guess just also from a capacity perspective the guidance that you gave us for the fourth quarter is that the extent of what you could possibly produce? Or if you see some upside to retail could we potentially see upside to shipments in the fourth quarter? Thanks James.
So we talked about net pricing.
Number one is it has a dilutive impact on gross margin percent but we shouldn't talk about this in a negative light.
We have increased our revenues by 3.5% with our model year 2014 pricing.
Now with that came higher cost at about 2.75%.
So net of -- pricing net of cost is up 0.75%.
So basically when you look at 0.75% increase in profit and 3.5% increase in revenue that comes out to a gross margin of about 21%.
And given the fact that the business operates at a 35.25% to 36.25% gross margin percent it is a somewhat dilutive of that gross margin.
So James what you had asked is how much that's about 50 basis points about 0.5 point of gross margin.
Now again with that we're getting a fair amount more revenue and more profits and certainly delivering more value to our shareholders.
But it is a slight drag on gross margin that we saw in the third quarter and we'll see again in the fourth quarter and the first half of next year as well.
The second question that you asked is with regards to capacity.
When we look at our shipment guidance in the quarter of 45 000 to 50 000 we're certainly taking into consideration surge manufacturing coming up at Kansas City in the first half of next year and are looking to take overall retail inventories down meaning that we will retail more this year -- our dealers will retail more this year than we ship in.
With regards to capacity we have certainly plenty of capacity in the fourth quarter that if we needed to or chose to that we could made more units.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Kennison with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> With the new products the strong retail trends and what we think is lean inventory you would seem to be in a position to allocate your inventory to those dealers that are kind of optimizing your priorities.
How much flexibility do you have in terms of inventory allocation in an environment like this? The overall inventories we feel good about where we're at in terms of inventory.
We are seeing some tightness in select models in particular Rushmore models.
We've got an allocation system that we believe is fair to all our dealers and we continue to execute against that allocation system.
Your next question comes from the line of Rod Lache with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping that -- you've commented before on the 50% incremental margin that you expected in the motorcycle business and I was just hoping that you might be willing to reconcile that to the gross margin bridge that you provided on Slide 16 presumably which takes some -- take the volume and take the manufacturing and maybe add back in the $7 million of startup costs.
But your motorcycle revenue was up by $90 million.
Your motorcycle revenue ex parts and accessories is up $83 million.
So can you just walk that for us? From a directional standpoint Rod when we look at that bridge on Page 12 and translate it into gross margin percent right you see the overall dollars setting adding up to the $38 million volume would be -- have no impact on gross margin percent.
Motorcycle pricing is unfavorable by about 0.5 point in terms of gross margin percent even though it's delivering $10 million of profit to the organization.
Mix would be slightly favorable; currency slightly unfavorable; raw materials slightly favorable; and then manufacturing considerably favorable.
That $9 million doesn't have a revenue component so that would provide about a benefit of 8/10 of a gross margin point.
So when you take all of those and add them together you're up about 6/10 of a point versus prior year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But when you've historically talked about a 50% incremental margin on the incremental dollars that come in from your growth I would...
Yes.
So what we've said is that for each incremental unit that we sell that typically has a gross margin of about 50% versus the core business that's at 35% and 36% -- 35.25% to 36.25%.
Most of that Rod would come through in the manufacturing piece.
So that's where the absorption is of the fixed costs of manufacturing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you had that manufacturing of $9.3 million but it was really if you add back the $7 million it's like $17 million; and you had volume benefit of $4.8 million so you get up to like $21 million.
But your revenue was up something like $90 million.
So is there -- is that something that is not necessary holding right now because of relatively modest volume changes or how should we be thinking about that? No it's certainly holding.
The $4.8 million though is strictly on volume.
It has nothing to do on margin so would not come down and be reflected at all in that manufacturing line.
In the manufacturing line the way to think of it is there is 4 main buckets.
There is productivity which includes a restructuring savings; there is incremental margin based on the increased production not necessary shipment but increased production; there is the year-over-year impact of temporary inefficiencies which is favorable $8 million; and then there is startup costs that are unfavorable by $7 million.
All that together winds up to be $9.3 million.
And when you divide that by the revenue it's adding 8/10 of a gross margin point on a year-over-year basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The inventory built that you were -- you talked about is that basically entirely attributable to the Rushmore units? And can you give us any kind of color on the -- how significant are the sales of discontinued models like the Road Glide at this point at retail? At retail for the -- the quarter end we had about 4 200 units higher in inventory and the majority of that would be Touring motorcycles: One because the overall split is pretty significant in touring; and number two is that's certainly the success of those models in preparing for sales into the fourth quarter and beyond.
He asked about the discontinued models.
So the discontinued models are Road Glide.
We had -- with Rushmore we came out with 8 models; on a year-ago basis that's comparing to 10 models.
We took 2 models out of the lineup which are Road Glide Custom and Road Glide Ultra which represent on an annual basis about 10% of overall -- or I'm sorry of Touring volume in 4% to 5% of our total volume.
When we look at the third quarter in terms of retail sales we had pretty brisk retail sales of the Road Glide.
So I would say that in the third quarter when you're looking at retail sales we're not seeing a headwind from Road Glide at this point and we'll start to see that in the fourth quarter and first and second quarter of next year.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Conder of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of items here.
John a lot of people have asked about gross margin.
And clearly I mean at the Analyst Day you and Keith alluded that the Rushmore benefit would be to the first half of 2014 but then the back half of the year you'll sort of get some normalization after that.
So how can we think about gross margin cadence with the restructurings being over on a longer-term basis? And then secondly with your excess free cash flow here are -- you're going to start talking about a payout ratio target or is all the incremental free cash going to be returned to shareholders after Mr.
Buffett's repaid in February of '14? Okay.
With regards to our gross margin as we look forward again we expect gross margin in terms of incremental volume pricing and those are the main drivers.
When we look at Rushmore Rushmore should provide mixed favorability in the short term.
But on a long-term basis we would expect mix to be flat over time as we continue to develop products for both our core customers and our outreach customers.
When we look at a return of capital to our shareholders what we are -- we're not basing it off or not providing a payout ratio.
But what we have said and will continue to do is return all excess cash to our shareholders in the form of rising dividends or share repurchase.
Tim you had mentioned that we do have a large debt coming due in February of next year that's $303 million of high-interest debt that during the downturn we borrowed from Berkshire.
And that will be paid out of operating cash and we will not look to refinance that.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Badishkanian from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I'm guessing from your commentary on the new product -- new products that you did not see a drop-off in sales in September is that correct? And then also when you talked about the benefits of gross margins in 2014 you mentioned incremental volume; does that mean that the volume growth rate is going to be faster in 2014 or you're just saying that than it was in 2013 or is it just an increase year-over-year? Thanks Greg.
We typically don't comment on growth rates within a quarter.
Sufficient to say that we were certainly pleased with the overall growth of retail sales in the third quarter I mean the U.S.
being up 20.1% and certainly international up 6.5%.
When we look at volume growth...
The next question that you had Greg was on the 2014 gross margin? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Well yes on the -- Well you mentioned that 2014 you'd see incremental volume that would contribute to or benefit the gross margins for 2014.
So does that mean you're just -- yes.
I'm sorry.
Yes Greg we will look to provide guidance in the fourth quarter conference call late January.
We're not going to provide any guidance at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I was just wondering when you said incremental volume what you meant by that? Was it just you're going to see an increase year-over-year or was it a faster growth rate than 2013? I just want to understand what you meant by...
I was not talking to any comparative growth rates we would expect to grow next year and we'll provide that.
Your next question comes from the line of Patrick Archambault with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick ones from me.
First on HDFS would it be possible to at least give us a directional walk about how you are thinking about it? I think you mentioned that net interest margins could compress a little bit because of some of the pricing.
Then I imagine you have positive origination volume and I'm not sure what you think of credit.
So maybe kind of putting those pieces together for us as you see them.
And then my second quick one is; it doesn't sound like the recall had much of an impact on production in the fourth quarter but can you just clarify that for us as well? Okay Patrick.
This is Larry Hund to just talk a little bit about HDFS both on the kind of the volume margin side and then on the credit side.
On the -- clearly we had a strong market share this quarter.
There is a lot of competition out there that we are seeing and clearly we made some pricing adjustments and that helped us drive that share.
So you're making sort of a volume margin trade-off there.
Over time I think as John said what we expect is rising interest rates are going to put some pressure on margins in the business.
If you look back historically in this business your margins tend to widen out in sort of a falling or absolutely low interest rate environment and then they narrow some when you get into a rising rate environment.
On credit losses I think we feel very good about where we are right now.
We were 88 basis points year-to-date and I think we feel good about that.
I think over time we expect credit losses to normalize in that level.
If you look kind of at our 10-year average it's certainly higher than where we are for the first quarters.
Yes and this is Keith.
Patrick you asked a question about the impact of the recall on production there really will not be one.
I mean we had a slight delay in some shipments.
We had some product in the plant in queue for shipment that had to go in and do the fix on so that delayed some shipments by about a week.
But overall when you wash through this thing there really will not be a delay.
Your next question comes from the line of Sharon Zackfia of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to kind of take a step back since we're almost done with the restructuring to talk about kind of where the potential is for Motorcycle operating margin to go over time.
You've clearly seen good improvement last year and it looks like you'll have a 16%-plus kind of Motorcycle operating margin this year.
So can you kind of walk through longer term over the next 3 to 5 years where you think that post-restructuring Motorcycle margin target could be? Thanks Sharon.
What we've said is over the next 3 to 5 years we expect gross margin to expand modestly.
We're not providing a hard number at this time.
As you know there is always puts and takes to these things.
You take the first half of this year and currency exchange has been about 0.5 point drag on overall gross margins.
So it's something that we're not providing you a long-term hard number.
But again when you look at the various pieces of it we would expect incremental margin and certainly pricing to benefit us into the future.
While the restructuring savings will -- we still got about $15 million left that will be realized next year.
There is still a lot of opportunity that we have in terms of the cost structure at Harley-Davidson: Number one is is on continuous improvement.
The whole system that we put in is designed to deliver continuous improvement into the future.
And then the other big area is transformation that we've had in product development and the opportunity to continue to design out costs out of our motorcycles and we thought the team did a wonderful job this year.
When you look at Rushmore and while the costs were up 2.75% the content that we added is well beyond that type of cost increase.
So we think there is tremendous opportunities in terms of continuing to focus on the cost structure as well as the revenue side.
And when we look at the revenue side again we talk about our overall strategy kind of the "fatten-the-tail" [ph] strategy to continue to bring in customers on both sides.
Certainly we did that with Rushmore on the core customer side of the scale and you'll continue to see as we move into the future a lot more effort on the outreach side as well.
Research Division</strong> Maybe if I could ask the question a different way.
I mean prerecession you had Motorcycle operating margins that were over 20%.
I mean is that something where you think that is fundamentally possible again in the model and is the key delta there just recouping the volume? We believe that we can continue to expand margins into the future modestly at gross margin and we'll expect to get continued leverage off of certainly the SG&amp;A base.
And as we look into the future we will not grow SG&amp;A at the same rate of revenue and therefore drive margins.
Beyond that we look to -- we feel great about our margin expansion.
Sharon every morning 6 000 people wake up here and they're focused on delivering a customer experience generating the products to drive that as well as to improve our gross margin.
So we're completely focused on delivering it and we will deliver it but I will not provide a number at this time.
Your next question comes from the line of Gerrick Johnson with BMO Capital Markets.
Can you talk about the consumer reaction to the Twin-Cooled bikes a pretty big deal? Was it to what you were expecting better softer? And being that it was only 3 of the 8 new units how that impact your mix? Did you see more demand for limiteds versus Ultras and Streets or the other way around? This is Keith.
The response has been very positive not only on the precision-cooled engine but on a lot of the changes that were made on Rushmore.
I mean all these changes and there were probably roughly 100 changes -- some big some small were all driven by the voice of the customer.
Right.
That was all driven by things that the customer has been asking for and looking for et cetera.
And really there hasn't been a noticeable change in the mix necessarily.
All of the Rushmore bikes have really sold very well.
If you look at as an example in Germany other significant sale [Audio Gap] Rushmore just because of the technology as an example and that's a market where you think about the brakes the radio the luggage the ergonomics that's a market that's highly focused on technology.
There's a saying in Germany "Germans love their cars Americans drive their cars" and that translates to the motorcycle business as well.
So I think all of the changes that we've made with Rushmore listening to the voice of the customer not just the U.S.
customer but the international customer are paying tremendous dividends for us.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Jonas with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is Yejay in for Adam.
Just a couple of quick questions.
I think you mentioned that HDFS recoveries took a bit of a hit this quarter potentially because of the introduction of the Rushmore models.
Can you comment a bit more broadly on what you're seeing in the used market? And then another one on HDFS.
Have you been in contact with or received any communication at all from the CFPB on lending practices? This is John.
I'll start off with the first part of it and talk about used prices in general and then Larry can handle the second part of the question.
Any time that we come out with the new model year we certainly see a devaluation of the old ones out there.
Another model year goes by right and they become a little bit older.
And certainly this is no difference in terms of that devaluation.
But we are seeing a bit of a greater devaluation which we would expect given the extreme content that we've added to the motorcycles.
So we are seeing the bikes being devalued still pretty early.
We do not have any concerns from the Motorcycle segment perspective is that why that price gap is expanding.
The content that we've added more than makes up for any of the decline in overall used bike prices.
Now that's a little bit different and I'll let Larry comment on it.
It does have an adverse impact when you look at the collateral aspect of it.
Sure.
When you look at recovery values on repossessed motorcycles those have actually dropped some I think as we said; and that has to do -- I think dealers with the great introduction of the Rushmore line are a little more focused on new motorcycle sales right now and we've seen a little bit of drop-off in some participation at some of the auctions.
But overall nothing that's been out of line with what we expected given that great new model year launch.
Regarding your comment on the CFPB we have not had any contact with the CFPB.
We actually have a banking subsidiary so we're regulated by the FDIC.
But certainly we are watching what's going on in the market very closely and their contact with other lenders and we are working to tighten our controls and -- because obviously this is an area that's very important to us very important to our dealers.
Your final question comes from the line of Jaime Katz from Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I want to piggyback on to that debt maturity question some earlier.
I know there is another piece of debt due at the end of next year.
Are you guys going to look to refinance that do you think? Or how should we think about the optimal capital structure going forward? And then secondly I think general merchandise category while it's small it was down pretty significantly this year or this quarter could you just comment on that? Yes.
Hi Jaime.
This is John.
The debt that we have coming due in February the $303 million is corporate debt.
That'll pay off 100% of our corporate debts.
And we've historically run without debt on that side.
We picked it up during the downturn.
When you talk about the $500 million 7.75% MTN that's coming due in December of 2014 that is part of the core funding for the finance subsidiary.
So we would absolutely look to replace that debt.
And as the interest rates stand now we would look to replace that at a lower interest rate that was at 5.75%.
So when we look at the overall capital structure as we look into the near future we don't expect any debt on the motorcycle side but we'll continue to fund the portfolio at HDFS including that MTN that will be coming we'll refinance that next year.
Research Division</strong> Second question was on general merchandise.
And general merchandise for the quarter was down by 12.6%.
100% of that decline is explained by the year-over-year impact of the 110th anniversary sell-in.
So every 5 years we have this anniversary which is highly anticipated and the apparel is no different.
So we come out with a whole line of 110th anniversary or anniversary apparel and accessories.
That is sold in the year prior.
So that was sold in in the third quarter of 2012 and this quarter we're simply lapping that.
And again 100% of the decline is explained by the year-over-year difference between 110th anniversary product.
All right.
Thank you everyone for your time this morning.
The audio and visual support for this call will be available at harley-davidson.com.
The audio can also be accessed until November 6 by calling (404) 537-3406 or (855) 859-2056 in the U.S.
The pin number is 69184133#.
We appreciate your investment in Harley-Davidson.
And if you have any questions please contact Investor Relations at (414) 343-8002.
Thanks.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Briana and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Amy Giuffre Director of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you very much and hi everyone.
Welcome to Harley-Davidson's fourth quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
The audio for today's call is being webcast live on harley-davidson.com.
The support slides can be accessed on our website by clicking on Company Investor Relations then Events and Presentations.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks that could cause actual results to be materially different.
Those risks include among others matters we have noted in our latest earnings release and filings with the SEC.
Harley-Davidson disclaims any obligation to update information in this call.
This morning you'll hear from Harley-Davidson's CEO Keith Wandell; CFO John Olin; and President of Harley-Davidson Financial Services Larry Hund.
Then we'll open the call for questions.
So let's get started.
Keith? Thank you Amy.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today.
Harley-Davidson had a great year and I couldn't be more proud of the entire team: Of our employees dealers and suppliers.
We achieved what we set out to do from exciting new products to improved manufacturing operations retail gains as well as the growing diversity of our customer base.
All of these translated to continued strong improvement in the company's financial performance and shareholder value.
Full-year EPS grew more than 20% on a 5.7% increase in revenue.
And at year end Harley-Davidson's total shareholder returns were up more than 40% from the start of the year outpacing the S&amp;P 500.
In manufacturing and product development Harley-Davidson has been relentless at driving improvements throughout the company that enable us to design build and deliver motorcycles with greater speed efficiency safety and quality.
With the launch of Surge Production early last year we were able to build motorcycles closer to when they were needed and to have the flexibility to adjust more quickly to market forces.
We saw great improvement in better matching our production to customer preferences seasonality and geographic demand.
And with the startup of Surge Production at our Kansas City plant earlier this month we expect continued improvements on this front.
And then there are the products.
The product -- Project Rushmore motorcycles that we rolled out in August were the first to come through our new world-class product development pipeline.
They introduced major innovation and design improvements and bring the voice of the customer into our product design process in a whole new way.
From the launch on August 19 through the end of the year our dealers sold nearly 28 000 motorcycles worldwide from the 8 models in the Rushmore line up.
And these bikes were embraced not only by our core customers but our outreach customers as well.
And then on the heels of Rushmore we revealed the Street 750 and the Street 500.
And these totally new motorcycles are designed for the lifestyle and riding needs of a growing generation of urban young adults globally.
The reveal of these motorcycles generated a tremendous amount of excitement and we're looking forward to the retail rollout in the next coming months.
And as we look down the road there's a lot more to come.
We have other new incredible motorcycles that are in our product development pipeline.
And we believe these new products together with our efforts and those of our dealers will enable us to continue to broaden our reach.
Last April we reported that for the fifth straight year Harley-Davidson was the undisputed U.S.
market share leader in new motorcycle sales to each of our outreach customer segments who we define as young adults 18 to 34 women African-Americans and Hispanics.
And you may recall that one of our key goals is to grow sales in the U.S.
to outreach customers at a faster rate than we grow sales to our core customers.
And we did that for the first time in 2012.
And now I'm pleased to report that in 2013 retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles to outreach customers in the U.S.
grew at more than twice the rate of sales growth to our core customers.
The company also continued to grow and expand its international reach in 2013.
Brazil is our largest market in Latin America.
And last year we captured the market share leadership in the 601cc and above category for the very first time.
Overall retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles in Latin America were up more than 13%.
And in Europe we increased our market share and hold the #2 position in the highly-competitive 601 and up segment.
And we had our best year ever for new motorcycle sales in our Asia-Pacific markets.
We again were the market share leader in the 601cc plus in both Japan and Australia and we saw strong growth in the emerging markets.
Worldwide Harley-Davidson now sells motorcycles in 89 countries and we've opened 118 new dealerships since 2009.
So all in all 2013 was an outstanding year and we haven't even touched on the success of the 110th anniversary on our new e-commerce rollout and a significant other number of highlights.
The company and the brand are strong.
And as we look at 2014 and beyond we believe we're in a great position to leverage our momentum expand our reach among new and existing customers and further strengthen Harley-Davidson's position as one of the world's leading brands.
So again thanks for your interest and investment.
And now I'm going to turn it over to John Olin.
Thanks Keith and good morning everyone.
I'll review 4th quarter financial results starting on Slide 11.
During the quarter Harley-Davidson Inc.
consolidated revenue was up 1.7% to $1.19 billion.
Our fourth quarter net income improved to $75.4 million an increase of $4.8 million or 6.8%.
Similarly diluted earnings per share rose to $0.34 per share up 9.7% from the year ago quarter.
Operating income from the Motorcycle segment was $60.7 million up 14.3% compared to last year's fourth quarter.
The strong increase in Motorcycle business was driven by a 2.1% increase in revenue despite a 1.0% decline in shipments.
Motorcycle segment operating income benefited from lower SG&amp;A and restructuring spending partially offset by a slightly lower gross margin percent.
As expected operating income at HDFS was down behind a higher provision for retail motorcycle loan losses.
We're pleased with our fourth quarter and full year financial results.
Now let's take a look at retail sales on Slide 12.
Worldwide retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles were up 5.7% during the fourth quarter driven by increases in both the U.S.
and international markets.
For the full-year worldwide retail sales were up 4.4% compared to 2012.
This increase was in line with our expectations driven by momentum in the second half following the launch of our model year 2014 motorcycles.
Let's take a look at U.S.
market on Slide 13.
Retail sales in the U.S.
were up 6.3% in the fourth quarter positively impacted by the continued momentum from the 2014 motorcycle lineup.
As we anticipated U.S.
retail sales growth in the fourth quarter slowed from the third quarter's growth rate behind 2 key drivers.
First a tough year-over-year comparison of 8.4% growth in 2012.
Q4 2012 benefited from the retiming of sales from Q3 when availability was limited by production disruptions related to our ERP implementation at York in Q3 2012.
And second we believe the impact of the absence of the popular Road Glide models in the 2014 model year become evident in Q4.
Worldwide retail sales represented about 9% of total U.S.
retail sales in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Road Glide models were discontinued for the 2014 model year but will be reintroduced when they're upgraded with Rushmore features.
The absence of Road Glide was also evident in our market share for the quarter.
As we have discussed we have expected to give back some market share which we did in the fourth quarter.
We continue to be very excited about the momentum behind our model year 2014 products especially Project Rushmore.
During the second half of 2013 U.S.
retail sales were up 14.8% which was right in line with our expectations.
For the full-year U.S.
retail sales were up 4.4% and Harley-Davidson's market share was up 1.0 percentage points finishing the year at 54.9% which is a record high and represents the fifth consecutive annual increase.
Over the last 5 years we have gained 13.4 points of share and hold a 47%[ph] point lead over our nearest competitor.
Finally as expected U.S.
dealer retail inventory was down approximately 1 850 motorcycles at the end of Q4 compared to 2012.
Year-end retail inventory was down as we prepared to implement surge manufacturing at our Kansas City plant and as we continue to remain committed to aggressively managing supply in line with demand.
Overall we're comfortable with the 2013 dealer retail inventory levels.
For 2014 we expect U.S.
year-end retail inventory to be up from 2013 levels driven primarily by the addition of the new Street motorcycles.
On Slide 14 you'll see retail sales in our international markets grew 4.7% in the fourth quarter and 4.3% for the full-year.
In our EMEA region Q4 retail sales were up 5.5% driven by our core European markets which were up 5.1% compared to last year.
This increase was driven by strong growth in Northern Europe led by Germany and France.
For the full year EMEA retail sales were down 1.0%.
In 2013 our 601-plus cc market share in Europe was 12.8% up 0.7 percentage points versus the same period last year.
Our market share gains in Europe are especially encouraging in light of the economic situation and promotional discounting by our competitors in that region.
While we're encouraged by fourth quarter results we remain concerned with ongoing economic challenges in Europe and the potential impact on our European business.
We will continue to focus on what we can control which includes building our brand experience across Europe and expanding our distribution network in emerging markets in that region.
In the Asia-Pacific region retail sales were up 6.1% in the fourth quarter driven by double-digit growth in emerging markets especially India and China.
For the full-year the Asia-Pacific region delivered growth of 9.8%.
Latin America region retail sales were down 2.8% in the quarter as a result of a decrease in Brazil partially offset by growth in Mexico.
During the fourth quarter Brazil's retail sales fell due to a very slow Brazilian motorcycle homologation process that kept us from getting our new Rushmore and Sportster motorcycles in the dealerships in 2013.
These models have now been approved and will start arriving in dealerships in mid February.
For the full year retail sales were up 13.1% in our Latin America region.
Finally retail sales in Canada were up 13.3% in the fourth quarter and 4.6% for the full-year.
As we have discussed we have been very focused on investing in our international businesses.
Since 2009 we have targeted 100 to 150 international new dealer points through 2014.
And over the last 4 years we have opened 118 with 2/3 being in emerging markets.
On Slide 15 you'll see wholesale shipments of Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the quarter were down slightly compared to last year as we prepared to initiate surge manufacturing in Kansas City this month.
Fourth quarter shipments finished within our expected range of 45 000 to 50 000 motorcycles.
During the quarter the mix of touring motorcycles decreased 2.1 percentage points from the prior year as we lapped a very high Touring mix during the same period last year.
In 2012 Touring shipments were unusually high in the fourth quarter following production disruptions related to the implementation of our ERP system at York.
2013 international shipments as a percent of total were slightly higher than 2012.
We are committed to investing in international growth and continue to believe international retail sales will grow at a faster rate than domestic retail sales over the next 3 to 5 years.
On Slide 16 you'll see revenue for the motorcycle and related product segment was up 2.1% in the fourth quarter and up 6.4% for the full-year.
Motorcycle revenue was up 1.4% despite a 1.0% decrease in shipments.
Fourth quarter revenue benefited from price increases versus prior year.
For the full-year motorcycle revenue was up 8.0% behind a 5.2% increase in shipments.
For 2013 the average motorcycle revenue per unit increased $412 from the prior year primarily driven by higher pricing and favorable mix partially offset by unfavorable currency impact.
On average our key currencies in 2013 were weaker against the U.S.
dollar by approximately 3% compared to 2012.
Parts and Accessories sales were up 4.8% in the fourth quarter and 1.5% for the full year.
General merchandise was up 2.5% in the quarter and down 1.2% for the full year compared to 2012.
Both the fourth quarter and full-year growth were impacted by lapping the strong sell-in of 110th anniversary apparel and accessories which began in Q3 of 2012.
Turning to restructuring on Slide 17.
As we closed out our restructuring activity at the end of 2013 we recorded a Q4 restructuring benefit of $0.4 million versus an expense of $1.6 million in the fourth quarter of last year.
We also experienced approximately $4 million in temporary inefficiencies versus approximately $7 million in last year's fourth quarter.
For the full year 2013 we recorded a restructuring benefit of $1.2 million versus a 2012 expense of $28.5 million.
Temporary inefficiencies during the year were approximately $15 million versus $33 million last year.
We realized annual savings from all restructuring activities of approximately $310 million in 2013 met our targets along the way and have successfully transformed our manufacturing operations and continue to advance our product development capabilities.
We expect to realize approximately $10 million in additional savings during 2014 and going forward.
With the completion of our restructuring activities we have significantly reduced our fixed cost structure and therefore improved the overall profitability of the company.
At the start of restructuring our motorcycle fixed cost were in the range of 20% to 25% of our motorcycle manufacturing cost.
Beginning in 2014 we expect our motorcycle fixed cost to be approximately 15% to 20% of motorcycle manufacturing cost resulting in gross margin on incremental motorcycle volume of approximately 47%.
Going forward we'll remain intensely focused on improving our cost structure and managing the business to be stronger more flexible and more profitable.
On Slide 18 you'll see gross margin in the quarter was 31.5% which was 0.3 percentage points lower than last year.
Volume price and raw materials were all favorable for the quarter partially offset by unfavorable mix foreign currency exchange and manufacturing.
During the quarter mix was unfavorable behind a lower mix of Touring motorcycles compared to 2012 when touring mix was high following the ERP implementation at York in Q3 2012.
Foreign currency exchange was unfavorable for the fourth quarter as the result of a sizable devaluation of the yen the Brazilian real and the Australian dollar on a year-over-year basis.
Manufacturing cost in Q4 reflected the benefits from restructuring and lower temper efficiencies as compared to last year's fourth quarter.
However manufacturing costs were adversely impacted by lower year-over-year production levels as we prepare to implement surge manufacturing at Kansas City in 2014.
Full year gross margin was 35.4% which was up 0.6 percentage points from last year.
We are very pleased with our gross margin growth in 2013 especially in light of the fact that foreign currency exchange negatively impacted gross margin by approximately 0.4 percentage points.
On Slide 19 operating margin as a percent of revenue for the fourth quarter was 5.9% up 0.6 percentage points compared to last year's fourth quarter.
Operating margin of $60.7 million for the quarter was favorably impacted by slightly higher gross margin lower year-over-year restructuring expense and lower SG&amp;A spending.
For the full year operating margin as a percent of revenue was 16.6% up 2.1 percentage points compared to last year.
We were very pleased with our ability to leverage both our gross margin and operating expenses in 2013.
Now moving on to our financial services segment on Slide 20.
In the fourth quarter HDFS operating profit decreased $1.7 million or 2.6% compared to last year.
The 2 primary factors impacting fourth quarter results where: First net interest income was favorable $9.3 million driven by a lower interest expense primarily due to lower cost of funds; and second the change in the provision for retail credit losses was unfavorable by $13 million due to higher retail credit losses.
On a full-year basis HDFS posted an operating profit of $283.1 million a decrease of $1.6 million or 0.6% compared to 2012.
We are very pleased with the performance of the financial services business.
Going forward we continue to expect pressure on HDFS' operating income as the result of modestly higher credit losses and tightening net interest margins due to increase in competition and higher year-over-year borrowing costs.
Now Larry will provide more detail on HDFS' operations on Slide 21.
Larry? Thanks John and good morning.
During the fourth quarter HDFS retail motorcycle loan originations increased 14.2% or $58.3 million compared to the same period last year.
The increase was primarily driven by higher year-over-year new retail motorcycle sales and a 4.3-percentage-point increase in retail financing market share for the fourth quarter compared to last year.
For the full year HDFS retail financing market share of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles sold in the U.S.
increased to 54.5% compared to 50.9% in 2012.
The primary drivers of the year-over-year market share gain were the pricing changes in the prime segment which were initiated in the second quarter in response to increasing competition and the strong sales of Touring motorcycles.
Finance receivables outstanding increased 3.7% compared to a year ago driven by growth in both the retail and wholesale portfolios.
We believe the overall loan portfolio was solid comprised of profitable loans funded in both the prime and subprime segments.
In 2013 between 75% and 80% of our new retail loan originations were prime.
Moving on to credit performance on Slide 22.
The 30-day delinquency rate for retail motorcycle loans at December 31 2013 was 3.71% or 23 basis points lower than 2012.
This is the lowest year end 30-day delinquency level in at least 12 years.
Annual retail credit losses increased by 30 basis points to 1.09% compared to 2012 primarily driven by lower levels of recoveries from accounts charged off in prior years.
This was expected given the lower level of credit losses in the past few years has left a smaller pool of potential recovery dollars.
In addition HDFS experienced an increase in losses due to lower recovery values on repossessed motorcycles following the launch of our new Rushmore motorcycles in the third quarter.
We are pleased with the progress at HDFS in 2013 as we continue to maintain a strong liquidity position deliver solid credit performance and contribute strong profitability.
We remain focused on enabling sales of Harley-Davidson motorcycles while providing an attractive return to Harley-Davidson Inc.
as demonstrated by the $120 million dividend HDFS paid to Harley-Davidson Inc.
earlier this month.
Now let me turn it back to John.
Thanks Larry.
Now let's take a look at cash and liquidity on Slide 23.
As you'll see at the end of the quarter we had $1.17 billion of cash in marketable securities.
In addition we had $1.28 billion of available liquidity through bank conduit and credit facilities.
We currently have and intend to continue to maintain a minimum of 12 months of projected liquidity needs in cash and/or committed credit facilities.
During the fourth quarter we repurchased approximately 2.7 million shares of Harley-Davidson stock for $176 million with a full-year total of 7.7 million shares for $456 million.
During the first quarter of this year we plan to pay off the $303 million of H-D Inc.
high-interest debt.
We do not expect to make a contribution to our qualified pension plans in 2014 as the funded status of our pension and postretirement plans improved by $600 million as a result of robust market returns and higher discount rates.
As we have stated returning value to our shareholders through increasing dividends and share repurchases is a top priority.
We will continue to evaluate opportunities to enhance value for our shareholders.
Now I'll review the remaining Harley-Davidson Inc.
financials on Slide 24.
I'd like to highlight 2 items.
First with regards to operating cash flow the company generated operating cash of $977.1 million in 2013.
Operating cash flow was up $175.6 million from last year primarily driven by increased earnings.
And second the full-year tax rate was 34.1% compared to 35.1% in the year-ago period.
This reflects the benefit of both the 2012 and 2013 research and development tax credit due to the retroactive reinstatement of credit -- of the credit in early 2013.
The summary for the full-year 2013 is on Slide 25.
We had net income of $734 million in 2013 which was up 17.6% compared to 2012.
The motorcycle segment operating income was up 21.7% compared to prior year.
Strong motorcycle segment growth was driven by higher revenues improved gross and operating margins and lower year-over-year restructuring expenses.
As expected HDFS income was down slightly during 2013 behind higher credit losses.
On Slide 26 you'll see our overall expectations for the year ahead.
In 2014 we expect to ship 279 000 to 284 000 motorcycles on a worldwide basis up approximately 7% to 9% from 2013 shipments.
We believe the underlying worldwide demand fundamentals for Harley-Davidson motorcycles are strong.
We expect shipping growth will be driven by the strong appeal of the Harley-Davidson brand; great model year 2014 and 2015 motorcycles; the introduction of the new Street motorcycles which we estimate shipments of 7 000 to 10 000 units; continuing outreach momentum in the U.S.; and international expansion.
During the first quarter we expect to ship between 76 500 and 81 500 motorcycles up approximately 2% to 8% compared to last year's first quarter shipments of 75 222 motorcycles.
During the last several years we have provided gross margin guidance given our focus on our restructuring activities that were largely aimed at improving our gross margin profitability.
Since 2009 we have significantly improved gross margin from 32.3% to 35.4%.
As we go forward we will provide guidance on operating margin as a key financial metric rather than gross margin.
We believe that operating margin will more appropriately capture our opportunities to leverage both gross margin and our investment in SG&amp;A.
For 2014 we believe operating margin for the motorcycle segment will be between 17.5% and 18.5% up from 16.6% in 2013.
We believe 2014 operating margin will benefit from a modest increase in gross margin and from SG&amp;A falling as a percent of revenue.
Let's take a closer look at both.
In terms of gross margin we expect both puts and takes in 2014.
On a positive side we expect additional restructuring savings of approximately $10 million plus about $8 million less in temporary inefficiencies than what we experienced in 2013.
We also expect incremental margin behind higher production and lower pension expense.
On the negative side we expect headwinds to gross margin percent from mix pricing and foreign currency exchange.
As we have discussed while we expect pressure on gross margin percent from mix and pricing we expect both mix and pricing to positively impact 2014 gross dollar -- gross margin dollars.
Finally we expect foreign exchange to have an adverse impact on both gross margin percent and dollars.
As we look forward to the first quarter we expect gross margin percent to be down slightly year-over-year due to start-up costs associated with the launch of our new Street motorcycles.
We expect incremental start-up costs to impact both Q1 and Q2.
Looking forward at SG&amp;A we expect it will increase in 2014 as we continue to invest in future growth opportunities but we expect that it will decline as a percent of revenue as we leverage our current SG&amp;A spending.
For HDFS we expect operating income will be down modestly in 2014 compared to 2013.
Capital expenditures in 2014 are expected to be between $215 million and $235 million.
Finally we expect full-year 2014 effective tax rate will increase to 35.5%.
The increase is largely driven by the absence of the R&amp;D tax credit in 2014.
So to recap we are certainly pleased with our fourth quarter results and key accomplishments throughout the year.
During 2013 we successfully increased sales gross margin and operating margin which resulted in a 20.6% increase in diluted earnings per share; initiated flexible manufacturing at our York facility; completed restructuring activities started in 2009; launched one of the most significant new model years in our history; celebrated 110th anniversary around world; and delivered shareholder value through increase dividend of 35.5%; and the repurchase of $456 million in company's shares.
We're excited about 2014 and we'll continue to position the company for long-term success by remaining focused on executing our growth strategies and delivering strong margins strong returns and value to our shareholders.
Thank you for your continued confidence and investment in Harley-Davidson.
And now let's take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of James Hardiman with Longbow Research.
I was hoping you could help us -- you talked a little bit about sort of the core versus outreach customers in 2013 being up.
Some of that might have been a function of sort of the Project Rushmore bike not coming out until later in the year.
How should we think about that in 2014? My general assumption is that Project Rushmore is the biggest thing you guys have going on and that ultimately you're focusing on the core first.
So I'm assuming that that will sort of reverse itself in '14.
And I guess specifically how should we think about pricing in '14 on those bikes and ultimately mix? James this is John.
James as Keith had mentioned in the preamble we couldn't be more excited about our work on outreach sales.
So for the year of 2013 we grew outreach at 7.2% and our core customer at 3.1% which again was over twice the rate and the second time in 2 years.
You mentioned the impact of Rushmore coming late in the model year.
Again this is all part of the fatten the tail strategy.
On one end of the spectrum is products like Rushmore that encourage trade-up at a high revenue and at a very high margin and typically are aimed at our core customer.
But I want to remind you that Rushmore is selling extremely well with outreach customers.
And as we've talked in the past motorcycles like the Street motorcycle is the #1 selling bike to women young adults African-American and Hispanic -- I'm sorry Street Glide.
And so we're seeing a tremendous amount of bikes being sold -- Rushmore bikes being sold to outreach as well.
This is Keith James.
I just want to add on here that our strategy is and has been to grow our outreach customers at a faster rate.
We want to grow our core customers but we just believe and have believed and continue to believe that we have a lot of opportunity with these underserved demographics and also internationally.
And so again while Rushmore has been extremely popular with our outreach customers Street Glide has been extremely popular.
I just want to remind you that we focused only on the Harley-Davidson brand all of our dollars and product development are being focused on the brand.
We have a whole pipeline of products coming that are intended to not only solidify and grow our core customer base but to bring new outreach customers into our dealerships in the years to come as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Kennison with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Larry I'd like to ask you have you seen any change in credit availability at either the prime or subprime levels? At reference Carmax for example one of your peers in the financial space where subprime has tightened a little bit.
I had seen that release on CarMax as well.
I would say that we are seeing strong credit availability particularly in the prime segment.
I would say in the subprime segment obviously there's less availability but we have not seen any pullback on competition in the subprime segment.
Your next question comes from the line of Rod Lache with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk first of all a little bit more about the -- thanks for the volume estimates for the Street 750 and 500.
How are those positioned such that they won't affect the Sportster and some of your other products? Do you feel that those would be largely accretive? And if I could just also ask for clarification on the margins -- the margin drivers.
Can you give us some sense of how you're thinking about FX and commodities in terms of magnitude this year just given some of the volatility we've seen recently? Great.
Rod this is John.
With regards to the Street 500 and 750 again as Keith had mentioned we couldn't be more excited to be introducing these models in the second quarter.
When we look at the overall pricing in the U.S.
the MSRP will be from $6 700 from the 500cc motorcycle to $7 500 for 750 a very attractive price point and certainly considerably lower than Sportster.
And Sportster's range anywhere from $8 000 to about $11 000.
And even with a much lower MSRP we're looking for ongoing gross margins of Street to be in line with our Sportster line.
So we feel very good about the margins and certainly the price point.
Do we expect some cannibalization of Sportster? Yes we would expect a little bit of cannibalization especially of 883 but nothing all that great because of again the differential in the price point as well as the type of bike and the attitude of the bike.
Remember this thing is designed for an urban environment and young adults.
It's a Dark Custom it will appeal to outreach customers.
It's liquid cooled which is very different with our new revolution x engine.
So there'll be some cannibalization but not to any great extent.
I think then Rod you had asked about FX and raw materials.
First of all when we look in 2014 on raw materials we would expect it to be largely flat on a year-over-year basis.
We're not seeing any big moves in raw materials that would cause us concern at this point.
And of course we continue to monitor that.
With regards to foreign currency we do expect it to be unfavorable in 2014.
And I believe that would be the third year of unfavorability in terms of foreign currency.
And as you know this year was quite painful in terms of foreign currency exchange.
On a full-year basis it cost $39 million and that was largely driven by significant devaluation of the yen the Australian dollar and the Brazilian real.
So as we look forward as we exit this year and the positions that we have on and the hedges that we have on as well as where currencies are today and the general expectation that the U.S.
dollar will strengthen we do expect foreign currency exchange to be unfavorable both on a dollar basis as well as affecting our gross margin percent in 2014.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Conder with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of things here.
The gross margin John you alluded to the start-up costs related to the Street in the first half of the year.
Should we interpret that to mean that the margins in the first half of the year potentially could be down a little bit given all the other factors that you cited? And then the other piece here relates to cash flow.
What's that minimum liquidity that you talk about and above that should we expect all free cash to be returned in dividends or share repo? Okay Jim.
When we look at that Street introduction there will be incremental start-up costs associated with it.
Remember this is the first time we're introducing a product in 2 separate plants in the history of the company and one of them will be international; the first time we're doing manufacturing outside the United States an entirely new supply chain.
There's a lot of things happening with this product that are going to drive some higher start-up costs and those costs are going to hit in the first half.
And so what we can say is that we do expect first quarter gross margin percent to be down slightly on a year-over-year basis driven by those start-up costs.
But again once we get it up and running we expect margins that look very similar to Sportster on a much lower revenue.
In terms of overall cash flow and liquidity as we've talked about we are going to maintain 12 months of liquidity in terms of cash and committed credit facilities into 2014 and then in the foreseeable future.
Anything beyond that that we would deem as excess cash is coming back to our shareholders and I think we've got a great track record over the last couple of years of delivering all that cash back.
So when you look at our flows this year we had $456 million go back in the form of dividend repurchases $188 million in dividends and then $175 million contribution to our pension plans.
Now as we look to 2014 we clearly are not going to be funding the pension plan so that will be additional excess cash to be returned to our shareholders or to pay down debt.
So yes all excess cash will come back to our shareholders and again with the reminder that we will be paying down the Buffet debt of $303 million here and I believe the next week.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Badishkanian from Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> Just in terms of sales for 2014 your guidance 79% increase a little better than my estimate.
And I'm just wondering typically you provide more conservative guidance and that growth rate is higher than you've typically guided in the past.
Is it just due to the Street bikes? And could you have a little bit of cannibalization and just kind of the other factors there.
Because you have I guess in the second half you have new model year 2015 products what are you thinking of those? And then to kind of look at the run rate of the fourth quarter going into next year how much did weather really impact that 6% U.S.
retail sales number because obviously every -- all the leisure vehicle companies have seen a pretty big impact from weather.
Greg we feel great about our guidance of 279 000 to 284 000.
All I can say is that we believe we'll ship between those numbers.
The drivers are the appeal of the brand.
I don't think the brand has ever been stronger.
The brand fundamentals are very strong.
We've got Rushmore momentum coming in the model year '14 products.
And yes we're very excited about model year 2015 motorcycles.
The Street adds a couple points of shipment margin under that 7% to 9% and remember the other thing about Street is that's just the initial rollout.
It's only 5 markets this year and we'll continue to roll it out over 2015.
And then we've got some momentum in international business and we're happy to see Europe start to turn the corner there with 5% growth and especially core Europe growing.
So all those things make us very comfortable with our shipment guidance of 279 000 to 284 000 units.
Your other question Greg was with regards to the fourth quarter and overall retail sales in the fourth quarter and were they impacted by weather.
And it doesn't matter if you're a local market or in a big region weather affects the timing of motorcycle sales.
And so yes we do believe that we were impacted by weather but this is a business that we're in and we're always going to see weather push sales.
We don't think that we've lost any sales.
We do think that they'll be pushed forward but in particular starting in the second month of -- second week of November weather turned a little bit worse than a year ago levels but again we'll pick that volume up and we feel good about where we're at.
I think the bigger impact on our Q4 sales was really the Road Glide -- the absence of the Road Glide which we completely expected and that's going to provide some headwind with regards to retail sales as we go forward as well as market share.
And again when you look at Q4 of 2012 Road Glide represented 9% of that volume and that Road Glide customers are incredibly loyal to that motorcycle.
It is different; it's a different design it's a different look and a different ride.
And so they -- knowing that that -- those models are going to come back with Rushmore features we believe that they're out of the market and that's probably the biggest impact that we had on our retail sales in the fourth quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Pat Archambault with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just looking -- with this being I think the first year of kind of OpEx/SG&amp;A with fairly minimal restructuring charges in it compared to history I think it came in somewhere around 18.9% 19%.
If you look back historically the last time you kind of recorded a year where you had similar levels of revenue that SG&amp;A/OpEx number was of course lower in the 15s.
And I understand that it probably costs more to sell a bike now than it did back then but could you A maybe just give us a sense of what the structural differences are in the business now? And then maybe a little bit more about the longer-term opportunity to leverage that down because it does look like it's a potential margin opportunity even beyond 2014.
Pat so overall SG&amp;A let's start with the fact that it represents -- it's about 80% fixed.
But that doesn't mean that it isn't subject to inflation because it certainly is.
But when we look at our motorcycle growth and revenue growth the SG&amp;A base is highly leverageable.
Again about 80% fixed 20% is more variable and more directly tied to motorcycle sales.
So as we look forward I mean there's a tremendous opportunity to leverage that base of SG&amp;A spending and that's why we did move from guidance to add gross margin to operating margin.
We want to make sure our investors as well as our employees are focused on that opportunity.
I don't know when you go back and look over time you'd asked about SG&amp;A because there was inflationary pressures and also the big investment we've made over the last 3 years in our international expansion have pushed SG&amp;A up.
But again a lot of that footprint is set from an international perspective and we expect to leverage that with international growth exceeding our domestic growth.
Your next question comes from the line of Jaime Katz with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> Can you guys talk a little bit about how you're thinking about pushing price increases through going forward particularly overseas and maybe what you're seeing in way of competitive environment over there promotionally? Jaime this is John.
We actually don't think about it as pushing price increases through.
We think about more of delivering value to our customers that they're willing to pay for and I think Rushmore is a great example of that.
We're able to increase -- well drive the entire line of pricing at 3.5% in model year 2014 certainly more of a larger price increase of about 5% on our Touring motorcycles.
And it was delivering an incredible amount of value because we know our customers better than anyone else in the world and we'll continue to do that.
We think that the brand gives us a lot of opportunity and pricing power as we go forward but I think the pricing opportunities are going to be driven by the life cycle plan that we have in design.
And the models that we're going to be bringing forward will allow us to continue to increase our prices behind the value that we deliver.
I'm sorry the other question was competitive environment internationally.
We feel great about opportunities to expand our business internationally.
We certainly had some headwinds in Europe and this quarter represents the best growth that we had in Europe in the last 11 quarters.
So hopefully we'll see Europe economically get better.
We do expect some up-and-down quarters there but that's really where we've had the most pressure in terms of a competitive standpoint and even within Europe we've been -- the team has done a great job at growing market share and grew a significant amount of share in 2013.
So the rest of our focus internationally is really through building the distribution network and building the brand internationally.
Your next question comes from the line of Gerrick Johnson with BMO Capital Markets.
In U.S.
you gained 2 points a share in the third quarter without the road glide.
Now you're down about 3% in the fourth quarter.
Can you just discuss other factors that may have impacted share perhaps talk about the competitive environment products and promotion and do you anticipate gaining U.S.
share in 2014? Gerrick in Q4 we did lose some market share.
And as we talked about at the Investor Day back in August we expected that we would be given back some market share.
So there was 3 drivers of the market share in the third quarter.
First was similar to retail sales when you look at the company the comp was a little bit tougher in the fourth quarter.
On a year-ago basis we lost share in the third quarter of 2012 because of the fact that we're putting in the ERP system and we pushed volume out of that quarter into the fourth quarter so that was part of what we were comparing against.
The biggest driver though of share loss in the fourth quarter was the absence of Road Glide.
And again when you have a year-ago product that sold 9% of your total U.S.
volume and we no longer have those models in the lineup and this year is the comparable and we believe the loyalty of those customers we'll have them out of the market until we reintroduced that product that was the largest impact of the share loss.
And then also during the quarter we had increased competitive activity.
As we look forward to 2014 we would expect headwinds in terms of market share for the next couple of quarters in particular due to the absence of Road Glide.
Your next question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A lot of my questions have been answered and you gave great color on your prepared remarks so I appreciate that.
Just to stick on this market share commentary just wondering if you could touch upon what you're seeing from your newest competitor Indian as they've been ramping and do you see that as being a bit of a headwind to some of your market share improvement? Or is it all the -- just a return of the Road Glide? Maybe if you -- I don't know if you can calculate this but maybe if you could give us some kind of guesstimate of what your market share might have been kind of adjusting for the Road Glide or normalizing for the absence of that? Felicia it's John.
Let's start with the last one first.
We're not going to speculate on what market share would have been had the Road Glide been in there but just to suffice to say that it was a huge part of our sales in 2012 and it's no longer there.
When we look at Indian they sold some motorcycles in the fourth quarter.
We expected that.
They've been out of business for quite sometime and Polaris has been promoting them heavily.
So they sold some motorcycles but nothing outside our expectations at all.
So it's what we expected.
It hasn't thrown us off our plan at all.
We'll see how they continue to roll out.
I would imagine a lot of that was driving the overall category up and the new people coming in picking up a nostalgic bike but it's going to take some time to understand where everything nets out but everything is well within our expectations.
And Felicia this is Keith.
I'll just add that as we sat back and look at these numbers here sort of as a leadership team we have to remember that we did gain a full point of market share this year and that was our fifth consecutive year.
And over the last 5 years the market share has increased 13.4% and we're at all-time high market share numbers in our company now.
Having said that we take every one of our competitors seriously.
And clearly Indian has targeted Harley-Davidson but so has Honda and so has Suzuki and Yamaha and other companies over the years as well.
And so while we monitor that regularly we take all of our competitors seriously what we've done here is we've transformed our company and we've also transformed the culture in our company and how our employees think.
And none of our employees take our market share leadership for granted.
None of our employees think that we're great but they all know that we're on a journey to be great.
And so everything that we do in our company everything that we've done every ounce of energy that collectively we've put into our company in the last several years has been all about designing and developing and bringing great new products to market which you're beginning to see and there's more to come.
It's been about manufacturing in a great way.
We -- our plant in York Pennsylvania -- the transformation that took place in that plant in less than 4 years is unbelievable.
We were just awarded one of the Industry Week's Best Plants in America.
And it's really an example of what we can do -- an American manufacturing to be competitive and provide great world-class products and export freedom around the world.
So -- and so that's what we're all about and our dealers are all in.
Our dealers are stepping up their game in terms of providing great customer experiences every day that are personalized that are trusted and that are social.
And so we're -- we got our eyes straight ahead right? We're not looking back and we think that we're going to be able to compete very well.
And your last question comes from the line of Adam Jonas with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on pricing for both of used and your expectation of new.
You mentioned that you're seeing some lower recoveries within HDFS with the Rushmore success.
I'm just wondering is that A is one of the expectations and whether there's any commentary of the overall environment for your used bikes.
And then on the pricing comment the guidance.
I think you said price mix would be positive for dollars but negative for margin.
If you were to isolate pricing specifically is that also the case that it would be negative for margin? And if so I was just wondering is that because you expect content to be higher? Just a bit more color there.
Jonas I'll start with the second question first.
In terms of pricing this really is driven largely by the model year '14 pricing in which we increased our overall revenue across all the lines across all the regions by about 3.5%.
When you look at the gross margin piece of that that increased at a slightly faster rate.
It increased at 4-point -- the cost increased at 4.2%.
So what that cascades down to is gross margin growth of about 2.1%.
So we had higher revenue and certainly higher margins and higher dollar profits.
But when you look at that content growing at a little -- with our cost of goods sold growing little bit faster rate than revenue we did see a headwind on gross margin percent by about 0.05 point and we feel that was the right thing to do for our shareholder and to drive shareholder value and make sure that we didn't over price the motorcycles.
They've got a tremendous amount of content but there are some stiff increases in there of up to about $1 800 on some of the models.
So we want to digest that and again as we mentioned earlier we think that we have pricing power as we move into the future which you're absolutely right.
Is dollar profit in revenues accretive due to our pricing actions and we'll be slightly -- so slight headwind to overall gross margin percent.
And Jonas this is Larry.
Just adding on what you said about used.
Not surprisingly I think with the great introduction of Rushmore and all the content those motorcycles have number one dealers are taking a fair amount of trades when selling those new motorcycles.
That has meant they have not had to go to the auctions quite as much for their used motorcycle source.
And this has put a little bit downward pressure on recovery values.
Also some downward pressure probably on used motorcycle prices.
Okay thanks gentlemen thanks everybody.
Thanks for joining us today and this morning.
The audio and visual support for today's call will be available at Harley-Davidson.com.
The audio can also be accessed until February 13 by calling (404) 537-3406 or (855) 859-2056 in the U.S.
The pin number is 26990236#.
We appreciate your investment in Harley-Davidson and if you have any questions please contact the Investor Relations at (414) 343-8002.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Sharon and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period (Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Ms.
Amy Giuffre you may begin your conference.
Thank you and welcome to Harley-Davidson's first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
The audio for today's call is being webcast on harley-davidson.com and the supporting slides can be accessed on our website by clicking on Company Investor Relations then Events and Presentations.
This morning Harley-Davidson's CEO Keith Wandell; CFO John Olin; and President of Harley-Davidson Financial Services Larry Hund will provide their perspective on the quarter.
Following our prepared remarks we’ll open the call for questions.
Today’s comments will include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks that could cause actual results to be materially different.
Those risks include among others matters we have noted in our latest earnings release and filings with the SEC.
Harley-Davidson disclaims any obligation to update information in this call.
With that let’s get started Keith.
Thank you Amy.
Good morning and thanks to all of you for joining us on today’s call.
As we noted in today’s earnings release Harley-Davidson delivered gains on many fronts in the first quarter with motorcycle shipments up 7.3% consolidated revenue up nearly 10% and diluted earnings per share up 22.2%.
Dealer new Harley-Davidson motorcycle sales were up 5.8% globally with increases of 10.9% internationally Everyone is focused each and everyday on continuous improvements throughout the organization to deliver outstanding experiences to our customers.
In our production operations we increased the level of first quarter Surge Production in the plants from the year-ago period and improved our Surge efficiencies.
Through Surge we continued to improve our ability to produce the right mix of motorcycles and to get them to the right customers at the right time.
Motorcycles like the highly popular project Rushmore touring models which again performed extremely well.
We also know with the recent availability of Polk data for 2013 the one of the Rushmore bikes the Harley-Davidson Street Glide Special was the best selling new motorcycle model in America last year.
And for the record as long as we are talking about best sellers our Custom Cruiser Harley-Davidson Breakout was the Number 2 best-selling model in America in 2013.
On another major new product front we’ve recently began shipping the first Harley-Davidson Street 750 and Street 500 motorcycles the milestone in our strategy to further expand our reach with young adults globally.
The Street 750 got off to a strong start in India with high consumer interest has showroom display and demo motorcycles hit the dealerships.
In the U.S.
the first Street 500s went into the Harley-Davidson Riding Academy Fleets at our dealerships.
We will continue to fill the Riding Academy pool and then look forward to shipping both the Street 750 and 500 for U.S.
retail sales late in the second quarter.
And we will begin shipment of the Street 750 for retail in Italy Spain and Portugal in the next several weeks.
we launched two more new models in early March it expands Harley-Davidson’s leadership of the category.
The SuperLow 1200T is targeted for a customer who wants great touring features but on the motorcycle that is smaller and lighter than our Big Twin touring models.
And what is even more exciting is that as we look down the road there is a lot more ahead other great new motorcycles in our world-class product development pipeline to further grow our leadership among core and outreach customers in the U.S.
and globally.
As detailed in today’s earnings release not only was Harley-Davidson the Number 1 seller of new on-road motorcycles to U.S.
outreach and core customers for the six straight year in 2013 we drove our market share in each of these segments according to Polk new motorcycle registration data from IHS Automotive.
Clearly the entire team is doing a great job of brining new riders into the Harley-Davidson family even as we grow sales to core customers.
As we entered the prime selling season in many of our key markets we are excited about the rest of the year and we know that our dealers are too.
We got off to a great start in the first quarter and believe we are well positioned to leverage the many opportunities we see in the market place globally.
So thanks for your investment in Harley-Davidson and thanks again for joining the call today.
And now I’m going to turn it over to John Olin with details on the quarter.
Thanks Keith and good morning everyone I’ll review the first quarter financial results starting on Slide 12.
During the quarter Harley-Davidson Inc.
consolidated revenue was up 9.9% to $1.73 billion.
Our first quarter net income improved a $265.9 million an increase of $41.8 million or 18.6%.
Similarly diluted earnings per share rose to $1.21 per share up 22.2% from the year ago quarter.
Operating income from the Motorcycle segment was $347.7 million up 25.6% compared to last year's first quarter.
The strong increase to Motorcycle business was driven by 11.1% increase in revenue behind a 7.3% increase in shipments.
Motorcycle segment operating income also benefited from a higher gross margin percent partially offset by higher year-over-year SG&amp;A spending.
As expected operating income at Harley-Davidson Financial Services was down behind a higher provision for retail motorcycle loan losses.
Also during the quarter we had lower year-over-year interest expense largely offset by a higher tax rate.
We're pleased with our first quarter financial results and look forward to the rest of the year.
Now let's take a look at retail sales on Slide 13.
Worldwide retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles were up 5.8% during the first quarter driven by increases in both the U.S.
and international markets.
For the quarter worldwide retail sales tracked below our expectation driven by very difficult weather conditions in the U.S.
which we believe will primarily impact the timing of sales between the first and second quarters.
We remain confident in our full year shipment expectations.
Let's take a look at the U.S.
market on Slide 14.
Retail sales in the U.S.
were up 3% in the first quarter.
Even with the year-over-year increase we believe U.S.
retail sales in the first quarter were adversely impacted by two factors.
First as we anticipated the absence of the popular Road Glide models in the 2014 model year continued to impact year-over-year sales results.
Road Glide represented about 10% of the U.S.
retail sales in the first quarter of 2013.
And second we believe that extremely difficult weather conditions across the Eastern 2/3 has adversely impacted the timing of retail sales.
We believe underlying demand for our model year 2014 motorcycles is strong in particular demand for Project Rushmore touring motorcycles.
In fact overall Touring retail sales were up year-over-year despite the absence of Road Glide models this quarter.
Street 500 motorcycles began shipping in late Q1 for dealer use in U.S.
rider training.
There is great dealer and customer excitement for our new street models.
We expect street motorcycles to be available in the U.S for consumer sales beginning in late Q2.
Finally as Keith noted we received a strong reception to last month’s mid-model year introductions of yet another two models the Dyna Low Rider and the Sportster Custom 1203 model.
On Slide 15 you will see retail sales in our international markets grew 10.9% in the first quarter and in our EMEA region Q1 retail sales were up 8.2% driven by growth across most of the European countries.
This increase was aided by favorable year-over-year weather comparisons across most of Europe.
Emerging markets within EMEA region continued to grow reflecting our investment in the distribution network.
In the first quarter our 601+cc market share in Europe was 11.3% down 0.1 percentage points versus the same period last year.
In the Asia-Pacific region retail sales were up 25% in the first quarter driven by growth in Japan spurred by a consumption tax increase that went into effect on April 1<sup>st</sup> of this year.
And which we believe pulled forward some sales into the first quarter.
Emerging markets within the region were also up double digits during the quarter.
Latin America region retail sales were up 8.9% in the quarter as a result of growth in both Brazil and Mexico.
Finally retail sales in Canada were down 2.4% in the first quarter which we believe is due to unusually harsh weather in that market.
As we have discussed we have been very focused on investing in our international businesses.
Since 2009 we have targeted 100 to 150 international new dealer points through 2014.
And since 2009 we have opened 120 with two-thirds being in emerging markets.
On Slide 16 you’ll see wholesale shipments of Harley-Davidson motor cycles in the quarter were up 7.3% compared to last year.
First quarter shipments finished toward high-end of our expected shipment range of 76 500 to 81 500 motorcycles.
During the quarter the mix of Touring motorcycles increased 3.2 percentage points from the prior year as we surged to meet expected spring demand for our new project Rushmore Touring motorcycles.
Also during the quarter shipment mix of our Street and Sportster category was up 1 percentage point in part driven by the initial shipments of our new Street motorcycles.
We will continue to ramp up Street motorcycle production through Q2 and be up to speed during the second half of the year.
On Slide 17 you’ll see revenue for the Motorcycles and Related Products segment was up 11.1% in the first quarter behind a 7.3% increase in shipments.
During the quarter the average motorcycle revenue per unit increased $836 from the prior year primarily driven by higher pricing and favorable mix partially offset by unfavorable currency impact.
On average our key currencies in the first quarter were weaker against the U.S dollar by approximately 3% compared to 2013.
Parts and accessories sales were up 7.7% in the first quarter and general merchandize sales were down 11.1% as a result in the shift of promotions from Q1 of last year to Q2 of this year and lapping the 110th anniversary apparel and accessories sales in Q1 of 2013.
On Slide 18 you’ll see gross margin in the quarter was 37.7% which was up 1.0 percentage points compared to last year.
Volume price mix currency raw materials and manufacturing were all favorable for the quarter.
During the quarter mix was $17.2 million favorable behind a much higher mix of touring motorcycles compared to 2013.
Looking forward we expect mix will become unfavorable in the second half of the year as Street production increases.
Foreign currency exchange adversely impacted revenue in the first quarter as a result of a sizable evaluation of the Yen the Brazilian Real and the Australian Dollar on a year-over-year basis.
However despite the unfavorable impact of revenue foreign currency exchange positively impacted gross margin by $5.2 million or approximately 0.6 percentage points of gross margin.
The positive impact was driven by a favorable balance sheet revaluation as currencies rebounded within the first quarter of 2014.
Manufacturing costs in Q1 reflect the benefits from increased year-over-year production and restructuring savings compared to last year’s first quarter.
However manufacturing costs were adversely impacted by startup costs associated with the launch of our new Street platform of motorcycles which are being produced in Kansas City and India.
We expect the startup costs for Street to continue into the second quarter.
Q1 gross margin percentage exceeded our expectations.
We originally expect the gross margin to be down slightly versus last year as a result of Street platform startup costs as well as unfavorable currency exchange.
While Street startup costs did adversely impact gross margin our plants outperformed our expectations for seasonal surge ramp-up costs and foreign currency exchange significantly exceeded our expectations as we anticipated it would be a headwind to Q1 gross margin percent rather than a strong benefit.
On Slide 19 operating margin as a percent of revenue in the first quarter was 22.1% up 2.5 percentage points compared to last year’s first quarter.
Operating income of $347.7 million for the quarter was favorably impacted by higher gross margin and the absence of restructuring expense partially offset by higher SG&amp;A spending.
We’re very pleased with our ability to leverage both our gross margin and operating expenses in the first quarter.
Going forward we will remain intensely focused on improving our cost structure and managing the business to be stronger more flexible and more profitable.
Now moving on to our financial services segment on Slide 20.
In the first quarter HDFS’ operating profit of $63.2 million was $8.3 million or 11.7% lower than last year.
The primary factors impacting first quarter results were; first net interest income was unfavorable $0.9 million driven by lower yields on receivables due to increased competition second the provision for retail credit losses was unfavorable by $6.3 million due to higher retail credit losses and increase in the reserve rate and growth in retail receivables.
As expected the higher credit losses were impacted by lower recovery values of repossessed cycles following the launch of Rushmore models last fall and changing consumer behavior and finally the provision for wholesale credit losses was unfavorable by $1.1 million.
Going forward we continue to expect pressure on HDFS’ operating income as a result of modestly higher credit losses and tightening net interest margins due to increase in competition and higher year-over-year borrowing costs.
Now Larry will provide more detail on HDFS’ operations on Slide 21.
Larry? Thanks John and good morning.
During the first quarter HDFS retail motorcycle loan originations increased 19.3% or $99 million compared to the same period last year.
The increase was primarily driven by higher year-over-year new retail motorcycle sales and a 6.2 percentage point increase in retail financing market share for the first quarter compared to last year.
For the first quarter HDFS retail financing market share of new Harley-Davidson motorcycle sold in the U.S.
increased to 52% compared to 45.8% in 2013.
The primary drivers of the year-over-year market share gain was a strong sales of touring motorcycles and the pricing changes in the prime segment which were initiated in the second quarter last year in response to increasing competition.
Finance receivables outstanding increased 6.7% compared to a year ago driven by growth in both the retail and wholesale portfolios.
We believe the overall loan portfolio was solid comprised of profitable loans funded in both the prime and subprime segments.
In the first quarter between 75% and 80% of our new retail loan originations were prime.
Moving onto credit performance on Slide 22 the 30 day delinquency rate for retail motorcycle loans as of March 31 2014 was 2.66% or 26 basis points lower in 2013.
This is the second lowest first quarter delinquency percentage for each year past in the last 13 years.
Annual retail credit losses increased by 24 basis points to 1.33% compared to 2013 driven by higher losses due to lower recovery values on repossess motorcycles following the launch of our Project RUSHMORE motorcycles last fall.
We expect this impact to continue through the first half of this year.
Additionally the increase in credit losses also resulted from change in consumer behavior and lower levels of recoveries from accounts charged-off in prior years.
During the first quarter HDFS continue to maintain a strong liquidity position deliver solid credit performance and contributes strong profitability.
And we remain focused on enabling sales of Harley-Davidson motorcycles while providing an attractive return to Harley-Davidson Inc.
Now let me turn it back to John.
Thanks.
And now let’s take a look at cash and liquidity on Slide 23.
You will see at the end of the quarter we had $1.03 billion of cash and marketable securities.
In addition we had nearly $1 billion of available liquidity through bank credit and conduit facilities.
We currently have intent to continue to maintain a minimum of 12 months of projected liquidity needs in cash and/or committed credit facilities.
During the first quarter we increased the dividend by 31% and we repurchased 1.2 million shares of Harley-Davidson stock for $76.6 million.
Our Board of Directors also authorized the repurchase of an additional 20 million shares which increased our authorization to 28.1 million of shares as of the end of the quarter.
We also paid-off a $303 million of Harley-Davidson Inc.
high interest debt and HDFS $820 million to Harley-Davidson Inc.
Earlier this month HDFS successfully completed an $850 million asset securitization transaction at a weighted average interest rate of 0.93%.
As we have stated returning value to our shareholders through increasing dividends at share repurchases is a top priority.
We will continue to evaluate opportunities to enhance values for our shareholders.
Now I’ll review the remaining Harley-Davidson Inc.
financials on Slide 24.
I’d like to highlight two items; first with regards to operating cash flow we generate an operating cash of $203.6 million in the first quarter.
Operating cash flow was up $312 million from last year primarily driven by the lapping of last year’s pension contribution of $175 million lower working capital and increased earnings.
And second first quarter tax rate was 35.0% compared to 33.8% in the year-ago period this reflects the benefit of last year’s first quarter rate from retroactive reinstatement of the R&amp;D tax credit for both 2013 and 2012.
On Slide 25 you will see overall expectations for the quarter ahead.
In 2014 we continue to expect to ship 279 000 to 284 000 motorcycles on a worldwide basis up approximately 7% to 9% from 2013 shipments.
We believe the underlying worldwide demand fundamentals for Harley-Davidson is strong.
We expect shipment growth will be driven by the strong appeal of the Harley-Davidson brand; great model year 2014 and 2015 motorcycles the introduction of the new Street motorcycles which we estimate to ship between 7 000 and 10 000 units continuing outreach momentum in the U.S.
and international expansion.
During the second quarter we expect to ship between 92 000 and 97 000 motorcycles up approximately 8.5% to 14.5% compared to last year’s second quarter shipments of 84 606 motorcycles.
We continue to believe 2014 operating margin for the motorcycle segment will be between 17.5% and 18.5% up from 16.6% in 2013.
We believe 2014 operating margin will benefit from a modest increase in gross margin and from SG&amp;A falling as the percent of revenue.
Looking at SG&amp;A we continue to expect a little increase in 2014 as we invest in future growth opportunities but we expect that will decline as a percent of revenue as we leverage our current SG&amp;A spending.
For HDFS we continue to expect operating income will be down modestly in 2014 compared to 2013.
We continue to expect capital expenditures in 2014 to be between $215 million and $235 million.
Finally we continue to expect our full year 2014 effective tax rate will be approximately 35.5%.
So to recap we are certainly pleased with our first quarter results and key accomplishments throughout the quarter.
We successfully increased sales gross margin operating margin which resulted in a 22.2% increase in diluted earnings per share initiated Surge manufacturing at our Kansas City plant shipped the first all new Street motorcycles launched two additional 2014 models; the Low Rider and Custom 1200T and delivered shareholder value to a 31% dividend increase and repurchase of $77 million of company shares.
We’re excited about 2014; we will continue to position the company for long-term success by remaining focused on executing our gross strategies and delivering strong margins strong returns and value to our shareholders.
Thank you for your continued confidence and investment in Harley-Davidson.
And now let’s take your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from Tim Conder from Wells Fargo Security.
Your line is open.
Thank you and congratulations on a good execution gentlemen and the whole team.
Thanks Tim.
Couple of items here.
I guess if worldwide was still in the mix right now would it be fair to say that your market share would be up that 9% or 10% or would there be say some other dynamics that are going on there.
And then John more from a housekeeping perspective can you detail out the Street first quarter start-up cost and then also just any inefficiency cost beyond the Street? Yes thanks Tim.
That again as we’ve talked about worldwide is an extremely popular couple of models and in Q1 of 2013 represented 10% of our sales.
So we also believe these customers are some of our most loyal to on the bike they ride and the worldwide is very different in the way (indiscernible) the way it looks and the way it rides on the road.
So we do believe those folks are not in the market at this point and if they where we certainly believe our market share would be a fair amount higher.
And I’m certainly that is the largest driver of our market share.
Now having said that Tim market share we couldn’t be more pleased with at 56% largely flat with the absence of Road Glide.
We also got to remember that a year-ago market share was up 2.4% and the reason that was so high but the gain was that we increased availability and that was the first time and probably eight to ten quarters that we were able to get more motorcycles at the market.
So not only do we not have that we certainly had a tough comp in terms of market share.
And then increased competition especially in the Performance segment was strong in the first quarter.
We’ve seen the Performance segment be down for the last five years and I think that’s a tremendous sign for the industry.
So with all those things and those headwinds against market share we couldn’t be more pleased with delivering 56% market share for the quarter.
The second question that you asked Tim was on was on Street startup costs.
For the quarter Street startup costs were in the $4 million range and again we’ve never started up our product in two factories before and this will be done I mean in Kansas City and in India.
And also not only in India we’re starting up Street but we’re starting up our manufacturing operations which means we’ll be fabricating in that plan.
So we got a lot going on with Street.
The start-up is going very well.
We expect start-up costs of about the same amount to a little bit more in the second quarter.
And let me give you a quick recap as to where we are at in terms of Street.
We did shipments in the first quarter we’re shipping in India and by the end of the second quarter we’ll start shipping to Southern Europe.
So I’m very excited about Street model.
Your next question comes from Joe Hovorka from Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Inc.</strong> Thanks guys.
Just one quick question on the Rider's Edge Rider’s Advantage Program.
When we ship a Street is it tagged and license in the state does that show there is a retail sale or does it not show up as a retail sale.
Good question Joe.
The bikes that we ship into the Rider Academy will reflect in the quarter as a retail sale.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
It will okay.
Yes it well.
Inc.</strong> That’s all I had.
Thanks.
Thank you Joe.
Your next question comes from James Hardiman from Longbow Research.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking my call and congrats on a great quarter.
I guess first the housekeeping and then I guess a bigger picture question.
Just looking at the numbers in the press release.
It looks like your retail was up 3% the industry was up 1%.
I think based on what you do in the release but then you’re seeing a flat market share.
And then conversely Europe you guys were up about 9%.
In the release it industry was up 25% or are there sort of different numbers being used there.
And then I guess just a bigger picture question in terms of market share.
At your big Analyst Day last year you talked about sort of the longer-term outlook losing a little bit of share.
Certainly the expectation I think is that you’re going to lose share this year given not only the bike that you don’t have but also the introduction of smaller big competitors Indian most notably.
Are we definitely going to see you guys lose share this year or after a pretty strong first quarter do you feel better about sort of where that market share outlook will be? Thanks.
Thanks James.
Yes as you noted out the press release and if you go back in any quarter they never tie out completely.
So the process is that we submit along with our competitors submit retail sales to in the U.S.
the MIC and in Europe there’s various agencies that track it.
And the difference that you see is timing and to see a couple of point difference is a not a big deal.
The timing in Europe is a little bit bigger than typical but it is just timing and we’ll see that those numbers workout over the year.
And as you look at it on a full year basis James versus a quarter they do get very close but the same numbers just timing as to when they’re recorded as a registration versus submitted by the companies.
The second question that you would ask is on market share.
We feel very good about overall market share and we expect – what we said is that we expect headwinds in 2014 largely driven by the absence of Road Glide which again is a huge part of our volume last year and it won’t there until we reintroduce Road Glide.
So we expect those headwinds to continue but as I had mentioned couldn’t be more excited about the strength the underlying strength of the brand that we saw in the first quarter in having a flat market share.
Your next question comes from Craig Kennison from Robert W.
Baird.
Your line is open.
Inc.</strong> Taking my question as well.
I wanted to understand the international strength that we’re seeing and maybe you could unpack the extent to which it’s been driven by more distribution points that are same dealer sales at existing dealers or just new products? It’s exceptionally strong number.
Well Craig I think it’s driven by all of them but let’s take a quick spin around Europe when we look at it.
Europe is the second quarter in a row that we’ve seen positive growth after a very difficult couple of years period of time.
So we’re certainly very optimistic about what we’re seeing out of Europe.
The core European regions or the 16 countries were up 8.8%.
Now that is partly driven by favorable weather.
They had a very mild winter this year very much unlike the United States and that was compared to a more rough winter the year before.
So that was a hot climate but what was really exciting about Europe is that was across almost across every country in Europe with the exception of Spain.
So really good growth two quarters in a row.
We’ll continue to work on it I think the team in Europe has done a wonderful job in driving the brand forward the new product is being very well received as it is another places in the world.
And we continue to add distribution points when we look at Asia-Pacific which was up 20.5% and to look into the detail that was driven by Japan which was up in the largest market in Asia-Pacific and that was up 33% and that was a lot of volume forward into the first quarter because of the initiation of a increase in the consumption tax in Japan up three percentage points.
So we would expect that the start that dissipate over time.
And when we look at Asia-Pacific going forward we don’t have any retail sales in there for Street and we are excited about the opportunity for Street in Asia-Pacific through the Indian market.
Hey John this is Keith I just want to add some Craig make no mistake about it the technology that we are introducing in our new bikes is having a major impact in international markets particularly in Europe and its really I think helping our brand gain momentum and gain strength in those markets.
overall we feel very good about international we do have some timing happening in 10.9% increase that you saw on this quarter but very bullish and what’s happening in our international businesses.
Your next question comes from Rod Lache from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Inc.</strong> Good morning everybody.
Couple of things one is the pricing and mix obviously were very strong $45 million $46 million year-over-year.
Can you give us some color on how we should be thinking about that maybe size it up for the second quarter particularly the mix and when you’re looking at the production is the touring retail sales kind of inline at this point with what your shipments percentage is or are you still basically kind of over building on touring to fill in inventory.
Then lastly related to that when does the Road Glide come back in is that something they could benefit this year’s retail sales? Thanks Rod.
Again when you look at our gross margin bridge we had a lot of strength.
Every element was positive and certainly in particular pricing in mix.
Pricing was up $14 million and again that’s a 3.5% price increase that we took earlier in the year but as a percentage of revenue actually pricing was a little bit of a drag as we had anticipated on gross margin percent.
When you look at mix our mix being up $17.2 million we look at mix three different levels or three different businesses motorcycle parts and accessories and general merchandise.
All three of those were favorable and that doesn’t happen all that often.
And when you take and look at the motorcycle mix which was the biggest driver we were favorable in family mix model mix and geographic mix.
So very strong quarter on mix and it also added as a percent of gross margin to the overall quarter.
You would ask Rod what happens as we go forward and we would expect still some strength good strength in mix in the second quarter behind Rushmore as it compares to non-Rushmore product right that will be our fourth quarter of having that in the market.
Now that will start to get diluted a little bit as we ramp up shipments of Street.
And so on the second quarter we’ll continue to ramp up those shipments and that will start to have an adverse impact but overall mix we would expect in the second quarter to be favorable.
As you get into the back half two things happen as we start to lap Rushmore sales against itself and would expect the strong mix gains that we’ve had start to dissipate.
And at the same time we’ll have Street into full production and we do expect in the second half of the year that mix will be unfavorable both on a dollar and a percent basis.
And remember when we launched Street we said it would be 0.5 point dilutive of overall gross margin you’re not seeing that in the first quarter and you will really start to see that in the back half of the year.
And you would ask about production versus shipments we are producing full of our Rushmore bikes and they are selling as they are getting to the dealerships.
We are not building any inventory in terms of we are not building much inventory on our entire line but certainly not building inventory in the field on Rushmore.
Again they’re selling very well and we are very pleased at what we are seeing.
And the third question that is with regards to Road Glide and when it’s coming back.
I cannot specifically tell you when it’s coming back I can tell you that it is on plan and everything is going according to plan but as you know we’re very excited about it.
It is a big driver of our growth as well as our customers’ desires and that it will come out with the Rushmore features and we’re all excited about it.
Your next question comes from Greg Badishkanian from Citigroup.
Your line is open.
John sometimes you talk about the Sunshine State performance versus the weather impacted states.
If you could give us a little bit color on that as well as how retail inventory levels or dealer inventory levels are doing right now? Great Greg.
Yes what a quarter and you talk about where weather was significantly worse on a year-over-year basis and certainly the central area where we are at today was one of those record cold up to 90% of Lake Michigan froze.
Sales were down considerably and as we exit the third quarter we still have a couple of regions that are down on a year-over-year basis and that being in the Central and the Northeast regions.
Now where we’ve seen weather that is comparable on a year-over-year basis we’ve seen good growth and where we’ve seen weather considerably better either West we have seen significant growth in those markets.
And as the weather breaks we’re starting to see those sales come inline very tough in the Southeast for the first of January February.
As weather broke down there we saw good sales and now they are up a little bit on a year-over-year basis.
So we’re excited about weather evening out and becoming more seasonable and down in the second quarter here.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Pat Archambault from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Great thank you very much.
Kind of building on an earlier question on slide relating to slide I guess 18 I think if I have this right you said that manufacturing had come in a bit better than what you expected and certainly currency had I can’t remember if raw materials were better than expected but it sounds like there is a lot of items here that have come in favorable this quarter.
I understand that there are some headwinds as you get into the second half like mix but that’s something that was always anticipated based on your schedule.
So just how much upside risk is there to that operating margin guidance or is there some expectation that some of these good guys are going to reverse in subsequent quarters.
Great great question let’s take currency for the quarter and as we talked about we expected gross margin to be down slightly.
The biggest difference in driver between what we expected and where we ended up was currency.
And we had an unusual quartering currency in that the revenue on a year-over-year basis was down by $10.5 million and that was because of a devaluation from first quarter this year to first quarter last year.
And we anticipated that – what we didn’t anticipate was within the quarter.
From the beginning of the quarter to the end of the quarter we saw currencies actually rebound across all four of our major currencies including the euro Australian dollar Japanese yen and Brazilian real quite significantly about 3 percentage points.
And what that requires is us to re-embark our assets and that drove the favorability.
So while we had unfavorable revenue we actually had favorable profit because of that revaluation gain that we took.
Now Greg you asked about what’s going to happen in the future.
We still expect currency to be a headwind as we look forward but it’s hard to tell.
If currency stay the way they are that gain will be basically a one-time gain.
If currency is devalue again and go back to where they were then perhaps they would – we’d see that gain reverse itself.
So when we look at it currencies we’re not completely sure but we think it’s a headwind.
Actually we’ve talked about everything else in terms of manufacturing efficiencies we’re getting out of the plant be structuring savings.
Everything is going according to plan and we’re very pleased as to what we’re seeing.
Your next question comes from Felicia Hendrix with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</strong>  Thanks.
Two questions for you.
The first is just on the cadence in shipments.
I think this is kind of an attempt to discuss a few questions ago.
So you explained very clearly banking that you had search of the touring bikes in the first quarter and if you look at historically at your shipment versus sell through historically there has been a build in the first quarter.
But as we all know historical shipment patterns are changing now because of the manufacturing programs that you’ve implemented.
So just trying to think about the cadence of shipments versus sell through in the second third and four quarters.
Will they be more even? Is that how we should think about that? And then my second question is if you could just comment on the Low Rider and the SuperLow and the reception of those bikes at the dealer show.
You talked about how the Sport is going kind of be dilutive in the second half but just wondering if those bikes sales are offsetting that so much and/or somewhat and how we should think about the impact of what you launch after the dealer show? Thank you.
Thank you all the heavy lifting of moving inventory and basically over the last three years what we did is took where we were that we shipped in 50% we produce 50% in the first half of the year and the second half but retail sales were about 60%.
Last year we really got over the hump and last year we produced about 60% and shipped about 60% in the first half of the year and that’s in line with our retail sales.
So having said that Felicia we don’t expect any big changes in cadence of shipments and takeaway.
Now whether it’s always going to bounce things around a little bit but by and large the pattern should be similar to what we saw last year.
We exited last year.
In the quarterly inventories we felt very good about.
At the end of this year we would expect inventories to go up a little bit because we’ve got the new family of motorcycles in Street.
I want to make one thing clear and to the question that I mentioned before I was referring to the shipments of Street and the retail sales in terms of year-over-year basis.
We are increasing the inventory.
Inventories went up.
Our overall bikes in the system went up 18 500 units and that’s a seasonal increase.
When you look at a year-over-year basis they were up about 750 units.
So again in line with what we’re seeing on a cadence basis but certainly building from a seasonal perspective.
You’d asked about Low Rider and the Super 1200T the new models that we have launched.
When we look at Low Rider it’s a cruiser motorcycle and it’s got pretty good margins not as high as on the touring motorcycles but certainly higher than Sportster.
Sportster motorcycle margins are the lowest and they’re not going to offset what we’re going to see in Street.
But overall they are selling better than what we expected there are great additions and continue to flank our bikes in the Dyna and the Sportster categories.
Your next question comes from Jaime Katz from Morningstar.
Your line is open.
Thanks for taking my question.
I’d be curious if you guys would get a little bit more granular on the Asia Pacific region.
We've been hearing from some other consumer companies that China is holding up okay but maybe that Australia has been a little bit weaker I’m curious what your anecdotes are there.
And then also have you updated your thoughts maybe on how cycle capacity affects your longer-term operating margin potential assumptions just an update on that? Thanks.
Thank you Jaime.
When we look at sales across AP we talked about in the quarter which is kind of an anomaly with Japan and they are changing their consumption tax.
But otherwise our emerging markets in the region which are certainly led by China and India are well under the double-digits and we are not seeing a big impact.
But you got to remember that our businesses there are still pretty small and we got a lot of distribution opportunity and don’t think that they are going to be derailed than any great respect because of the economy.
When you look at Australia Australia sales are up.
They are more moderate – in the moderate range but we are feeling very good about the business there as well and again on a year-over-year basis were up 20% I think last year we were up 12%.
So we’ve got a lot of momentum come out of Asia-Pacific and I expect that to continue as we move forward.
The second question that you asked Jaime was with regards to our flexible manufacturing and what’s the long-term opportunity with regards to that? The biggest part of the long-term opportunity is really matching our sales with – production with our customer needs and getting much closer to the customer purchase cycle.
And with that we will have the right models and the right dealerships at the right time.
I think that’s the biggest opportunity that we’ve got with flexible manufacturing.
We are seeing a lot of financial benefits in terms of some of the lower cost the lower cost of doing it from wage rates to certainly leveraging the assets in the plant during that period of time.
But I think the biggest benefit is really us getting much closer to that purchase cycle and making sure the products are there one of our customers want them.
Hey good morning.
Wondering if you guys grew sales to outreach faster than core in a quarter and if not do you expect that to kick back into effect with the balance of the year with Street and the SuperLow 12? Thanks.
Thanks Gerrick.
During the quarter the first quarter actually core sales to core customers grew faster than outreach.
If we go back and look at 2012 and 2013 outreach grew at over twice the rate of our core sales and we expect that to continue into the future and certainly continue this year.
However for the first quarter we had core growing faster I think core was up about 4% and outreach was up about 2% certainly expected given the fact that project Rushmore is a great opportunity for trade-ups of our core customer.
Having said that as Keith had mentioned the Street Glide is a Number 1 selling motorcycle in the nation as well as to our outreach group but the project Rushmore product is certainly overshared to our core customer.
So having said that first quarter core grew faster we expect by the end of the year that outreach will have – will be up growing at a faster pace.
And as you had mentioned Gerrick I’m very much sure that Street is going to help bring that formula back in line.
Your next question comes from Adam Jonas from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Hey everybody.
Could you offer a comment on used bike prices I mean you mentioned for you guys that some of the recovery values are suffering from the introduction of the new technologies that are understandable on the Financial Services side but overall for the market maybe a comment.
And also maybe housekeeping I noticed a 25% increase in the accounts receivable balance I was wondering if that was driven by some of the extended cash conversion cycle as you’ve grow the international business more kind of any other driver for that is that temporary or not? Thanks.
Thank you Adam.
What I’ll do is I will take the first quarter.
I’m sorry I will take the second question and then have Larry answer how used bike prices are affecting us? With regards to accounts receivable balance it is up for a couple of reasons seasonally as we’re shipping in more products.
Number of accounts receivables are international sales.
All of our domestic sales are recorded under books of HDFS’ as a finance receivable.
But our accounts receivables are international sales so they are up quite a bit so that’s driving them to be higher from a seasonal standpoint.
Also we cannot change credit terms in Brazil to help with a growth there.
We used to have cash in advance and now we’ve got them on terms like the rest of our international markets.
And then foreign currency translation also impacted accounts receivable.
And Adam as it relates to used bike prices as we noted obviously the recovery values were receiving on sales of repossessed motorcycles at auction or down a little bit with the – after the introduction of the great Rushmore line.
Used motorcycle prices at the dealer level are down a little bit but actually holding up reasonably well.
So we’ll see how that plays out over the rest of the year.
Your last question comes from James Hardiman from Longbow Research.
Your line is open.
Hi thanks for taking my follow-up I just want to follow-up on a question Hovorka had earlier in the call which I thought was a good one.
The Street bikes obviously they are sort of a different animal in terms of how they are being treated I guess can you give us an idea of what retail would have been up in the absence of those bikes since they are also being treated as retail.
Secondly are those in the market share numbers? And then thirdly in terms of inventory can you talk about what you expect to happen to inventory in the absence of those bikes since – if I sort of think about this if it’s a wholesale shipment and a retail sale does that count as an inventory build.
So I just sort of walk through the different components of how we should be looking at the Street bikes since they are a little bit different? Okay James if I miss any of those please let me know.
With regards to our retail sales which were up 3% in the United States there wasn’t any retail sales internationally of Street motorcycle they started in April.
So the 3% the amount that Street would be with that would be very nominal because we didn’t ship out many bikes in the first quarter.
I don’t know what that would be but it would be very slight.
It did not affect our market share numbers at all number of our market share is 601 plus ccs and the bikes that we are shipping in for training are 500cc so that’s not picked up in market share.
Now when we do start to ship the 750cc for consumer use in the United States they will hit market share but then we haven’t shipped any of those yet.
When we look at inventory and what we said is on a full year basis our year-end inventory retail inventory we expect it to increase and that increase will be largely driven by Street motorcycles.
So we got a dealer fill and in the United States that’s the inventory that I think you are referring to James.
We got 700 dealers out there that will have a inventory so we would expect our inventory to go up because of the new models of Street.
When you look at the other models or the base models prior to Street we would expect them to grow in relationship to our overall sales i.e.
keeping our forward turns constant we feel very comfortable with the overall inventory level and we are going to continue to manage it aggressively in line with demand so we would start to expect that to grow in line with retail sales.
All right thank you for your time this morning.
The audio recording and slides from today's call will be available at harley-davidson.com.
The audio can also be accessed until May 6 by calling 404-537-3406 or 855-859-2056 in the U.S.
The PIN number is 17832552#.
We appreciate your investment in Harley-Davidson and if you have any questions contact the Investor Relations at 414-343-8002.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Tanya and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session (Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Amy Giuffre Director of Investor Relations.
You may begin your conference.
Okay thanks very much Tanya and welcome to Harley-Davidson's second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Our calls are webcast live on harley-davidson.com and you can access the supporting slides on that site by clicking about Harley-Davidson at the bottom of the homepage then Investor Relations and Events and Presentations.
This morning Harley-Davidson's CEO Keith Wandell; CFO John Olin; and President of Harley-Davidson Financial Services Larry Hund will provide their perspective on the quarter.
Following our prepared remarks we’ll open the call for your comments.
Our comments will include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks that could cause actual results to be materially different.
Those risks include among others matters we have noted in our latest earnings release and filings with the SEC.
Harley-Davidson disclaims any obligation to update information in this call.
With that let’s get started Keith? Thanks Amy.
Good morning and thanks to all of you for joining us on the call.
As always we appreciate your interest in Harley-Davidson.
In the second quarter we continued to see strong gains in our financial performance.
Revenue was up 11.5% net income was up 30.3% and operating margin improved by nearly four points to 25.8% as the many improvements in operations over the last few years continue to show up on the bottom line.
However retail motorcycle sales were flat overall compared to a year ago and fell short of our expectations in the U.S.
in particular for reasons that John will go into in a couple of minutes.
Given where we are in the U.S.
selling season we don't believe we'll get back fully on track with our U.S.
retail plan for the full year.
So in this morning's press release we announced that we are lowering our full-year 2014 shipment guidance to a range of 270 000 to 275 000 motorcycles compared to prior guidance of 279 000 to 284 000.
This new guidance has shipments growing about 3.5% to 5.5% over 2013.
The reason for this adjustment is simple protecting our premium brand is of at most importance and we will continue to aggressively manage and supply in line with demand in order to do so.
We believe the flat retail sales numbers are a temporary situation and that the underlying demand fundamentals of the business remained intact driven by first the strong appeal of the Harley-Davidson brand continuing outreach momentum in the U.S.
international expansion and at the top of the list outstanding motorcycles.
The Project Rushmore motorcycles have performed extremely well at retail since their launch last August.
And we believe they will continue to be a strong draw as riders migrate to these outstanding bikes.
And we couldn't be more pleased with how the Rushmore motorcycles have been received which we believe is a reflection of the strength of our customer led approach.
Late in the second quarter the Street models began to hit U.S.
dealer showrooms.
Street is designed for a new generation of riders and U.S.
dealers report continued strong interest enthusiasm in sales of initial shipments.
In India initial sales of the Street 750 have exceeded our expectations and the initial response in Italy Spain and Portugal have also been strong.
We look forward to expanding Street to other markets in 2015.
Speaking of 2015 the new model launch is just around the corner and it includes the return of Road Glide.
While I won't get into the specific features and upgrades we anticipate Road Glide customers and others will be excited by the changes that we've made.
We'll share all the news about the complete 2015 motorcycle line in late August when some 5 000 people from our global network of more than 1 400 dealers gather for our annual dealer meeting.
There's also been tremendous interest and enthusiasm for Project LiveWire the electric motorcycle we revealed last month.
The reveal has generated more than 340 million media impressions to-date.
And those who have had the chance to test ride LiveWire have great things to say about it.
We are taking Project LiveWire to the streets for customer test rides this year and next.
We will gain deeper insight into what customers are looking for from Harley-Davidson in this type of motorcycle so that if we launch it commercially it will deliver on customer expectations and be authentic to the Harley-Davidson brand.
Project LiveWire builds on other successes at Harley-Davidson.
In the last few years we've broadened our reach to a more diverse customer base in the U.S.
and globally.
And we've accelerated time to market with cutting edge products.
LiveWire is just the latest example of how we're pushing the boundaries with awesome products and innovation that builds on our market leadership.
One of the things I'm personally most excited about when it comes to our future is all the new products that are under development.
As always I want to acknowledge the efforts of our employees our dealers and suppliers who use their abilities and talents everyday to provide outstanding products and great customer experiences.
Together we are focused on continuously improving all the ways we serve customers and ensuring an outstanding future for the company.
And now I'll turn it over to John with more details on the quarter.
Thanks Keith and good morning everyone.
I'll review the second quarter financial results starting on Slide 11.
During the quarter Harley-Davidson Inc.
consolidated revenue was up 11.5% to $2.0 billion.
Our second quarter net income improved to $354.2 million an increase of $82.4 million or 30.3%.
Similarly diluted earnings per share rose to $1.62 per share up 33.9% from the year ago quarter.
Operating income for the Motorcycle segment was $473.3 million up 32.3% compared to last year's second quarter.
The strong increase in the Motorcycle business was driven by 12.4% increase in revenue behind a 9.0% increase in shipments.
Motorcycle segment operating income also benefited from a higher gross margin percent partially offset by higher year-over-year SG&amp;A spending.
At Harley-Davidson Financial Services operating income was up slightly year-over-year.
Also during the quarter we had lower year-over-year interest expense behind the retirement of our high-interest debt in February.
We are pleased with our second quarter financial results and continue to focus on delivering strong margins and strong returns.
Now let's take a closer look at the second quarter performance starting with retail sales on Slide 12.
Worldwide retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles were flat to prior year in both the U.S.
and international markets.
Second quarter worldwide retail sales tracked below our expectations due to prolonged poor weather conditions across parts of the U.S.
and soft U.S Sportster sales in the wake of highly anticipated Street Motorcycles coupled with Street start-up issues which are impacting the timing of Street availability.
Despite the soft Q2 sales results we believe the quarter demand fundamentals for the business remain intact and underlying growth trends are strong when adjusting for the absence of Road Glide.
As Keith mentioned as a result of the slow start to 2014 we believe it is prudent to adjust our shipment plan for the full year.
We now expect to ship between 270 000 and 275 000 motorcycles worldwide which represents growth of approximately 3.5% to 5.5% versus prior year.
Our previous guidance was 279 000 to 284 000 motorcycles.
It is critical for Harley-Davidson to support a healthy retail channel and protect our premium brand by aggressively managing supply in line with demand as we had consistently done for the past several years.
During the second half of this year we expect continued success from Project Rushmore motorcycles increasing product availability of our very well received Street Motorcycles and a very exciting 2015 model year motorcycle line-up which will be introduced in late August and include our new Road Glide motorcycles.
On Slide 13 let's review the U.S.
market where retail sales were flat to prior year in the second quarter.
As I stated we believe the factors that adversely impacted U.S.
retail sales during the quarter were first as we anticipated the absence of the popular Road Glide models in the 2014 model year continued to impact year-over-year sales results.
Road Glide represented about 10% of U.S.'s retail sales in the second quarter of 2013.
Second we believe that the prolonged weather conditions across parts of the U.S.
likely resulted in lost sales which we believe will not be fully recovered in 2014.
Dealers also experienced a sharp decline in Sportster motorcycle sales in the U.S.
which we believe was a result of even better than expected enthusiasm we are experiencing for the new Street motorcycles.
Some customers are waiting to compare the two product offerings firsthand however we are experiencing a slower than expected dealer retail fill of Street due to start-up issues that have resulted in very low product availability to-date.
During the quarter we had a market share of 50.3%.
Our market share continued to be at near-record levels.
It was down 2.6 points on a year-over-year basis.
We believe the decline was driven by the absence of Road Glide in the 2014 model year and our share of the small cruiser segment within the 601+cc motorcycle market decline behind lower Sportster sales as I just mentioned.
Through the first six months U.S.
retail sales were up 1.1% compared to last year and market share declined 1.8 percentage points.
While retail sales been short of our expectations we remain focused on the many strengths within our business including strong demand for our Project Rushmore Touring bikes.
In fact year-to-date Touring retail sales were up significantly despite the absence of Road Glide.
And with regards to our new Street motorcycle line-up the bikes have received a great reception from our worldwide dealer network the motorcycle press and customers.
Early feedback from our Riding Academy suggests graduates are excited about the opportunity to purchase the Street as their first Harley.
And early customer sales in India and Southern Europe are very encouraging.
Street motorcycle sales to U.S.
dealers for use in our Riding Academy were completed late in the second quarter.
A total of approximately 1 600 Street 500s were sold to dealers in the second quarter and approximately 2 200 during the first half.
Street motorcycle shipments for customer retail sales began in late Q2 in very limited quantities.
As I noted earlier we experienced difficulties with the start-up of Street which resulted in a slower Q2 roll-out of bikes to U.S.
dealers for sales to customers.
We now plan to ship each U.S.
dealer two Street motorcycles for retail by the end of August.
We anticipate that our ability to supply the U.S.
dealer network will improve toward the end of Q3 and into Q4.
However start-up costs will continue.
While we have – while we continue to expect to ship between 7 000 to 10 000 Street motorcycles worldwide in 2014 shipments will be skewed more toward the end of the year versus our original plan.
Overall U.S.
dealer retail inventory was up approximately 6 600 motorcycles at the end of Q2 compared to the same quarter last year.
Inventory was higher than desired due to our soft retail sales during the quarter.
As we have discussed many times we are committed to aggressively managing supply in line with demand as demonstrated by our shipment guidance reduction.
We continue to expect U.S.
year-end retail inventory to be up moderately from 2013 levels driven primarily by the addition of the new Street models.
On Slide 14 you'll see retail sales in our international markets were up 0.1% in the second quarter.
In the EMEA region Q2 retail sales were up 7% driven by growth across most countries in particular Southern European countries and emerging markets in the region posted very strong growth.
During the first six months of 2014 our 601+cc market share in Europe was 12.1% down 0.4 percentage points versus the same period last year behind the introduction of several new low price competitive models.
In the Asia-Pacific region retail sales were up 1.5% in Q2 very strong retail sales in our emerging markets offset a steep decline in Japan.
We believe that Japan sales tax increase that went into effect on April 1 2014 pulled significant sales forward into Q1 resulting in a 33% increase in that quarter and drove a 20.9% decrease in Q2 retail sales.
On a year-to-date basis Japan retail sales were up 1.0%.
Emerging markets in the Asia-Pacific region posted very strong gains driven by India where retail sales were more than doubled during the quarter as a result of a very strong demand for the new Street motorcycles.
Latin America region was down 10.4% during the quarter as last year's very strong growth of 39.2%.
Brazil's retail sales have also been impacted by a slowing economy consumer uncertainty and very aggressive price competition.
Retail sales in Canada were down 18% in the second quarter which we believe is due to poor weather conditions and an adverse response to recent price increases by our Canadian distributor initiated to recover unfavorable currency exchange impacts.
During the quarter we added five new international dealer points as we continue to increase our international distribution.
We believe that we can realize strong international growth opportunities by expanding our dealer network and increasing our brand relevance by delivering new products such as Street.
On Slide 15 you will see wholesale shipments of Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the quarter were up 9.0% compared to last year.
Second quarter shipments finished at the low end of our expected shipment range of 92 000 to 97 000 motorcycles.
During the quarter the mix of Touring motorcycles increased 6.3 percentage points from the prior year as our new Rushmore Touring motorcycles continue to create demand in the market.
Also during the quarter shipment mix of our Street and Sportster category was up however not as much as we had anticipated given the challenges with Street start-up.
We will continue to ramp up Street motorcycle production through Q3 and expect to be up to speed during the fourth quarter of the year.
On Slide 16 you will see revenue for the motorcycles and the related product segments was up 12.4% in the second quarter behind a 9% increase in shipments.
During the quarter the average motorcycle revenue per unit increased nearly $1000 from the year ago quarter primarily driven by higher pricing favorable mix and favorable currency.
On average our key currencies in the second quarter were stronger against the U.S dollar by approximately 1% compared to 2013.
Parts and accessory sales were up 0.7% in the second quarter.
General merchandize sales were down 6.5% during the quarter.
As we move forward with our efforts to transform the Harley-Davidson customer experience we have initiated an aggressive SKU reduction plan across our parallel [ph] product offering.
We believe the reduction will better focus dealers on fast-moving products and improve the customer experience with a more targeted assortment of popular styles.
We anticipate a couple quarters of flat revenue as dealers sell through discontinued items.
On Slide 17 you will see gross margin in the quarter was 39.5% which was up 2.6 percentage points compared to last year.
Volume price mix currency raw materials and manufacturing were all favorable for the quarter.
During the quarter mix was $30.9 million favorable behind a higher mix of Touring motorcycles compared to 2013.
Looking forward Manufacturing costs in Q2 reflect the benefits from increased year-over-year production restructuring savings and lower pension costs compared to last year's second quarter.
On Slide 18 operating margins as a percent of revenue for the second quarter was 25.8% up 3.9 percentage points compared to last year's second quarter operating income of $473.3 million for the quarter was favorably impacted by highly gross margin partially offset by slightly higher SG&amp;A spending and an unfavorable comparison to last year's period which included $5.3 million in restructuring benefit.
We are pleased with our ability to leverage both our growth margin and operating expenses in the second quarter.
Going forward we will remain intensely focused on improving our cost structure and managing the business to be stronger more flexible and more profitable.
Now moving onto our Financial Services segment on Slide 19 in the second quarter HDFS operating profit of $74.4 million was 0.4% higher than last year.
The three primary factors impacting second quarter results were first net interest income was favorable $8.5 million driven by increased receivables and favorable interest expense partially offset by lower yields on receivables due to increased competition.
Second the provision for retail credit losses was unfavorable by $5.0 million due to higher retail credit losses and increase in the reserve rate and growth in retail receivables.
And finally HDFS operating expenses were up $3.4 million.
Going forward we continue to expect pressure on HDFS' operating income as a result of modestly higher credit losses and tightening net interest margins due to increasing competition and rising borrowing cost.
Now Larry will provide more detail on HDFS' operations on Slide 20.
Larry? Thanks John and good morning.
During the second quarter HDFS retail motorcycle loan originations increased 10.5% or $95.3 million compared to the same period last year.
The higher originations were driven by a 2.2 percentage point increase in retail financing market share for the second quarter compared to last year and a higher average amount financed.
For the second quarter HDFS retail financing market share of new Harley-Davidson motorcycle sold in the U.S.
increased to 56% compared to 53.8% in 2013.
The primary driver of the year-over-year market share gain was the price changes in the prime segment which were initiated during the second quarter last year in response to increasing competition.
Finance receivables outstanding increased 9.5% compared to a year ago driven by growth in both the retail and wholesale portfolios.
We believe the overall loan portfolio was solid comprised of profitable loans in both the prime and subprime segments.
In the second quarter between 75% and 80% of our new retail loan originations were prime.
Moving onto credit performance on Slide 21 the 30-day delinquency rate for retail motorcycle loans at June 30 2014 was 2.68% or 7 basis points lower than 2013.
The delinquency percentage at June 30 2014 is the lowest it has been in 13 years.
Annual retail credit losses for the first six months increased by 17 basis points to 0.97% compared to 2013 some changes in consumer behavior and lower levels of recoveries from accounts charged off in prior years.
During the second quarter HDFS continue to maintain a strong liquidity position delivered solid credit performance and contributed strong profitability.
We remain focused on enabling sales of Harley-Davidson motorcycles while providing an attractive return to Harley-Davidson Inc.
Now let me turn it back to John.
Thanks we had $1.06 billion of cash and marketable securities.
In addition During the second quarter HDFS accessory completed an $850 million asset-backed securitization transaction at a weighted average interest rate of 0.93%.
In addition we repurchased 1.9 million shares of Harley-Davidson stock for $135.7 million during the quarter.
As we have stated returning value to our shareholders through increasing dividends and share repurchases is the top priority.
We will continue to evaluate opportunities to enhance value for our shareholders.
Now I will review the remaining Harley-Davidson Inc.
financials on Slide 23.
I would like to highlight two items.
First with regards to operating cash flow we generated operating cash of $570.6 million through the first half of 2014 operating cash flow was up $180.9 million from last year primarily driven by lapping last year's pension contribution of $175 million lower working capital and increased earnings partially offset by higher wholesale finance originations.
And second the year-to-date tax rate was 35.3% compared to 34.8% in the year ago period.
The higher tax rate reflects the expiration of the R&amp;D tax credit at the end of 2013.
On Slide 24 you will see our overall expectations for the remainder of the year.
As previously stated we now expect to ship 270 000 to 275 000 motorcycles on a worldwide basis in 2014 up approximately 3.5% to 5.5% from 2013 shipments.
During the third quarter we expect to ship 49 000 to 54 000 motorcycles which is approximately flat to down 9% compared to last year's third quarter shipments of 54 025 motorcycles.
Even with the change in shipment guidance we continue to believe 2014 operating margin for the motorcycle segment will be between 17.5% and 18.5% up from 16.6% in 2013.
We believe 2014 operating margin will benefit from a modest increase in gross margin and from SG&amp;A falling as a percent of revenue.
We expect Q3 gross margin to be approximately 2.5 percentage points below Q3 2013's gross margin driven by one unfavorable mix as anticipated Rushmore which delivered strong mix gains since its introduction will be lapping its initial launch in Q3 2013 while at the same time we believe Street had a much lower price point will be an increasing portion of shipment mix.
Two lower year-over-year production as we adjust our shipment expectations and three start-up costs of approximately $5 million for Street.
For HDFS we continue to expect operating income will be down modestly in 2014 compared to 2013.
We continue to expect capital expenditures in 2014 to be between 215 million and 235 million.
Finally we continue to expect our full-year 2014 effective tax rate to be approximately 35.5%.
So to recap during the quarter we successfully increased gross margin and operating margin which resulted in a 33.9% increase in diluted earnings per share shipped the first all new Street motorcycles the customers in the U.S.
India and southern Europe revealed Project LiveWire and electric motorcycle experience which is generating a great deal of customer excitement and delivered shareholder value through dividends and the repurchase of $136 million of company shares.
While we are disappointed in Q2 retail sales we are pleased with our second quarter financial results and key accomplishments throughout the quarter.
We will continue to position the company for long-term success by remaining focused on executing our growth strategies and delivering strong margins strong returns and value to our shareholders.
Thank you for your continued confidence and investment in Harley-Davidson.
Now let’s take your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Sharon Zackfia.
Your line is open from William Blair.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
There is a lot of conversation in the script about Sportster and the potential weakness there ahead of Street.
Is there I know you don’t normally quantify retail sales by family.
But could you give us any kind of granular information on how much that did impact retail sales in the June quarter? And then secondarily there seems to be increased investor concern over competition particularly from Indian but it sounds like Touring sales remained very strong so perhaps if you could give us some color on that? Sure Sharon.
When we look at the Sportster the impact again kind of taking you back we announced that Street would be coming to market in November of last year.
And at that time we knew it would have some adverse impact on Sportster sales.
But we anticipated that to be over the very low months and it ended up extending out being through the entire first half.
The reception that we've had to Street was much greater than we anticipated and the impact we believe to our Sportster sales was also greater than we had anticipated.
And again we originally expected to have bikes available for sale very early in the second quarter to consumers.
So when we look at the first half Sportster sales were down double-digit.
And in addition we didn’t ship and didn’t have any significant retail sales that we had certainly anticipated to have with our Street motorcycle.
I think for Street for the quarter for bikes available to customers in the United States we shipped in about a 150 and we retailed a good percentage of those very quickly Your second question Sharon with regards to competition from Indian.
And Indians most of the bulk of Indian sales are in the Touring segment.
I think two of their three models are in the two that are selling the most are in the Touring segment.
And again our Rushmore bikes have done fantastic and in the first half they were up in double-digits as well.
And when we look at overall market share for the first half we've got by far the vast majority of that share were largely flat Indian was up a bit and the rest of the competition in touring bikes was down a bit.
Your next question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Hi there.
Thank you for my – for taking my question.
I have two questions.
The first one is on just ASPs in the second half.
And could you just help us think about that for a second because with the – as your Street shipments increase I would assume that the ASPs would be down year-over-year but you mentioned that the Road Glide is coming back and your new product launch is coming soon so just when you put all of the variables together how should we think about ASPs for the second half? And then my second question goes back to the market share question but just looking forward as you go over the Street which is a smaller bike it seems like your comparable market share numbers are going to be skewed because that part of your production isn’t going to be captured in that area so I'm just wondering how we should think about that going forward? Okay.
The first question Felicia is ASPs in the second half we certainly expect them to drop or mitigate and let’s talk a little bit about that.
As we saw in the second quarter And the mix favorability that we are seeing in the second quarter which is on our bridge they're $31 million.
It's certainly more than we had anticipated given the fact that we didn’t ship the Street that we expected.
And so basically we pulled some margin favorability out of Q3 into Q2 and also we pulled some of that ASP from Q3 of the back half into Q2.
So even despite the Road Glide coming back we would expect ASPs to be down a fair amount in the second half just because of the magnitude of the lower selling price of Street and impact on mix the lower profit there as we increased the percentage of our total shipments of Street in the second half.
Now having said that we expect again from a financial standpoint overall gross margins to grow modestly on a year-over-year basis.
And when we look at mix in total we would expect mix to be a benefit on an absolute dollar basis to our profits and as a percent of margin we expect it to be neutral.
At the beginning of the year we expected it to be a little bit unfavorable and now we are expecting to be more neutral because of the fact that we've had very strong model mix within our Touring segment as people are opting for the higher trim limited as well as the Street Glide special.
The second question that you had was on market share of Street.
And I'm not sure I completely understand the question Felicia but I think dealing with is – when we talk about 500 of Street 500 that will not be picked up in our market share because the market share is a 601+cc.
However all of the Street 750s will be picked up in market share so that we certainly could have retail sales growing faster on a company-wide basis than retail sales for the 601cc segment.
Your next question comes from the line of James Hardiman from Longbow Research.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking my call.
Just couple of questions on Road Glide here you mentioned that it was 10% of the mix in 2Q of last year.
That seems pretty comparable with the number you gave in the first quarter.
Obviously it's difficult to tell how many people are holding off until the upcoming Road Glide is released but it seems like that that rumor is gotten out there.
So I guess at the end of the day do you think that it was a bigger headwind in the second quarter than it was in the first quarter when you account for switching? And as I think about the third quarter I'm assuming that it represented a very small number of your shipments in the third quarter of last year.
Was it a significant part of retail for 3Q just trying to think about sort of hopefully getting to a tailwind from a Road Glide perspective? Thanks.
Thanks James.
Yes in the first and second quarter it's been 10%.
I think we believe that the impact is consistent between the two quarters.
We don't see or we don't believe that as we get closer to it more are holding off again we've talked about some very loyal customer to that type of riding experience and frame.
So I don't think that there is a kind of a curve here that would suggest that as we get closer more are holding off.
We have done some research and looked at the sales that we've had of Road Glide up to this point and a very very small percentage of Road Glide had been purchased to-date have been by Road Glide folks that bought a Road Glide in the last five years.
So that gives us increased confidence or renewed confidence that most of our Road Glide riders are loyal and are waiting for the return of Road Glide.
In order to answer your second question into Q3 of last year Road Glide accounted for 8% of the total U.S.
sales and remember at that time we're just announcing that Road Glide was being discontinued we didn't talk about when it was coming back.
And we had a tremendous amount of activity on customers buying the Road Glide and snapping them up in the third quarter.
That fell continued into the fourth quarter but fell as a percentage of total U.S.
sales down to just sigh of 4% in Q4.
And then was move out into the first half of next year – first half of this year is essentially zero.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Kennison from Robert W.
Baird.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
John I wanted to clarify.
Did you say that 150 Street bikes were shipped in the quarter? Essentially in the U.S.
well certainly more were shipped internationally.
Right and then of those 150 did any of them count as retail units? Yes.
Either because they were sold to a dealer who sold it himself or to a customer? Yes I'm sorry the 150 I was referring to were sales just for our customers not for Rider Academy.
And I think somewhere about the third of those retails.
So they just started shipping out in the last very last days of the quarter.
So how many went into the Rider Academy and then ultimately were counted as retail because the dealer registered that unit? Okay.
So we're talking just the U.S.
market.
Yes.
In the second quarter 1 600 500s were shipped into the dealers for use in Rider Academy program.
All of those are recorded as a retail sale because that is their use despite the dealer.
And in the first quarter we had about 600 that went into Rider Academy.
So in total in the first-half about 2 200 bikes went into Rider Academy and then again in the United States we're able to ship out we're on again very strict allocation of Street going forward of two per dealer but we shipped out somewhere in the range of 150 for sale to customer and probably a third of those retail within – the day they're getting on the floor.
That's great color.
Can you just maybe clarify the production issues you mentioned with respect to Street and how you rectified them thanks.
Yes.
So you know what to understand some of the Street start-up issues that we're experiencing is really the kind of focus on the fact that this is the first time we're manufacturing product internationally and with that the majority of the supply chain is international which is unlike what we have experienced in the past where the majority of the supply chain is domestic.
And not only is that a much longer supply chain but it is with a lot of new suppliers.
And this is important as we start to deliver Street around the world at a price point that we real good about.
Anyhow with regards to that we're going through a learning curve with our suppliers and our expectations around finishes and quality we've struggled with ordering and delivery and the very long supply chain.
So in essence Craig it's those issues we believe are behind us at this point.
However some of the implications are still in front of us and those implications being the fact that we're on a strict allocation of Street through August and we expect to ship to Street vehicles to each dealer in the United States through the end of August and toward the end of the third quarter we'll be up to speed.
And what basically happened is there are just not enough parts on their way to us and there's – because of those issue that we've had.
Now to mitigate that and to get as many bikes in our dealers hands and to fulfill the demand that's out there is we are experiencing higher start-up costs namely in the wane of air-freighting parts in.
And what we're trying to do is to leapfrog supply chain.
So from a production and a manufacturing standpoint we're not experiencing issues that's much more on the start-up and supply-side of that equation.
That's also having an impact on our profitability between quarters because we expected to ship out a lot more bikes in the second quarter and we would have expected a little bit less gross margin in the second quarter and that's going to come out of the third quarter.
And as we've talked about Q3 gross margin is going to be down at 2.5 percentage points largely borrowed from the second quarter and the extreme mix favorability that we've had.
That’s helpful.
Thanks John.
Your next question comes from the line of Rod Lache from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Good morning everyone just following up on the walk.
First on the manufacturing one could you – John could you give us a little clarity on what the breakdown of that $25 million is? And it seems like restructuring was maybe kind of $4 million to $5 million and then you have a couple of million that you probably picked up from overhead absorption.
But it seems like a pretty large number just for the quarter.
And second on the currency of the $17 million.
If you could just give us some clarity of based on where it currently is today what you expect that impact to look like in the back-half? Okay.
I'm not going to break-out Pat the individual pieces of manufacturing but we can certainly talk about the buckets of favorability.
And you adequately touched on a couple of them.
The large driver is incremental margin and in the benefit that we're getting out of that incremental production.
And I guess to take a step back and to look at that number and yes it is a big number.
And on a first-half basis the $28 million is big number two.
But these are the things that we've been working toward for the last several years and all the restructuring that we've done and the transformation and on the product that we're delivering and the margin structure of the new products that are coming out is really we're seeing the benefit of lot of that hard-work over the past couple of years.
But the biggest driver is incremental margin and you've got productivity and remember this year we worked on surge manufacturing in Kansas City so that's delivering it.
And our plans are running very well.
We've got temporary inefficiencies that are starting to dissipate from where they were at a year-ago level.
So on a year-over-year basis there's lower temporary inefficiencies and then we've got pension favorability because of the lower discount rate and that that starts to flow through the pension expense.
And then we've got some offsets going the other way in terms of inflation and Street start-up costs in the quarter but overall very pleased with that manufacturing number.
The second question that you asked is with regards to currency.
And the currency was favorable $17.2 million.
As I had mentioned in the preamble driven by favorable euro and lapping a year ago losses.
When we do look at the quarter we're still experiencing devaluation of our yen So when we look at the back-half of the year we're looking at currency to be flat to slightly negative and our full-year view of overall currency is a bit more favorable than it was at the start of the year which we felt currency would be on the negative side.
Certainly on a full-year basis currency will be positive and we think will largely hold the gains that we've seen in the first-half.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Jonas from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Hey everybody.
I saw my first Street 750 on – near Alicante in Spain a week or so ago.
I have to admit it looked pretty sweet.
Excellent.
Guys a question at first I think it's admirable you guys are maintaining tightness in the supply chain to protect pricing.
I wonder if you can comment on some of your competitors who maybe aren't either willing or is able technically to be as tight as you to the extent that there is softness in the overall market.
Are you seeing or are you otherwise expecting increased pricing in competition in the U.S.
market in particular? It's my first question.
And I guess just more broadly you're citing a lot of companies' specific reasons and launches and start-up and timing as to the second-half outlook which is essentially flat or even slightly down potentially volume year-on-year shipments for all of the second-half.
You're suggesting almost all of the company specific but I'm just giving you a chance to highlight any broader macro or market reasons for the weakness as well.
Thanks.
Okay.
Adam we don't see any structural change in pricing in the industry as we move forward.
What we're seeing in the first-half is the weaknesses that we expressed which is due to weather and some self-inflicted wounds on Sportster and Street and the interaction between the two.
And what our volume guidance is basically doing is taking out that miss in the first-half and we're back on our growth trajectory for the second-half that we originally anticipated with the year that's just [ph] slightly a higher growth trajectory.
And so as we've said for quite some time is we're going to deal with the issue and take the volume out.
We've got too much inventory and I can't stress enough how much these commitments mean to us.
Certainly shipping guidance is one of them.
But the other one is our strategy to aggressively manage supply in line with demand and we are going to maintain the integrity of the market and our dealer network and also the premium nature of the brand.
So a tough and painful decision you know we could have talked about promoting our way out or growing our way but we got an issue we're addressing it and we're pulling it out.
But when we talk about the first-half second-half the brand fundamentals remain intact and nothing is changed in any of those between coming out of the first quarter or last year.
We couldn’t feel better about the brand.
We are very disappointed in the second quarter results.
But the drivers that we look for in the fourth quarter or the back-half of the year in terms of retail growth as well as into the future are the same drivers that got us here over the last couple of years.
And those are strong appeal of the brand and while market share is down 1.8% in the first-half it's certainly within our expectations and all explained and then some by Road Glide but also Sportster herd is about third of that margin or I'm sure loss is due to Sportster.
When we look at the industry the industry has grown for three straight years coming into this year and in the first-half the new bike industry is up 2% and that's despite the tough weather as well as the fact that Road Glide represents 5% of the industry in the first-half.
We're seeing more investment in the industry than we've seen in the last five years in terms of new products marketing and advertising.
And we're seeing it across all segments.
So feel great there continued success on outreach.
International – 75% of international markets are growing very strong in terms of EMEA and Asia-Pacific.
Some difficulties in Canada and Brazil and otherwise the motorcycles that we've brought to market have been fantastic.
You next question comes from the line of Tim Conder from Wells Fargo Securities.
Your line is open.
LLC</strong> Thank you.
John you've given some good explanation of the self-inflicted wounds with the miscalculation on both Street versus the Sportster and start-up issues and so forth.
But regarding retail can you give us as much as possible any commentary on what you're seeing so far in July.
It appears that weather is starting to get a little bit better any comments from that standpoint? And then also regarding the Street margin impact cadence if we're understanding you right are you saying that that impact should be largest in the third versus the fourth even though your volume mix of Street will be skewed more to the fourth? And then one final would be recall cost.
Any in the current quarter mainly in the second that you reported or will those fall more in the third? Thank you.
Okay.
First question is easy as we're not going to provide any retail guidance on July though our comments are through the end of the quarter.
As we look and as I just mentioned we're back on the growth trajectory.
We expect the same growth trajectory as we expected when we started the year and gave our 7% to 9% guidance.
We've taken down kind of our miss in the first-half but expect that.
Now having said that we know that the retail comps in the back-half are pretty significant in particular in the third quarter.
But again the fundamentals are strong and we're moving forward in the second-half.
The second question that you had with regards to which quarter Street will have a bigger impact on is probably the fourth quarter but largely in the back-half and again as we get up to speed full-speed won't be until the fourth quarter.
I don't know if mentioned that we still expect to ship to 7 000 to 10 000 units that we originally did in Street except for they were going to be skewed much more to the back-half.
And then the final question was recall costs.
The recall costs are booked when the recall is announced and so all recalls are booked in the second quarter and there is nothing anticipated for the third quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Hovorka from Raymond James.
Your line is open.
A question I want to clarify on the Road Glide I think the first time we started talking about it was the third quarter of last year when you took it out of the line-up and at the time you said it was 10% of Touring volume and 4% to 5% of total volume.
And now we've been talking about 10% retail for the first two quarters for domestic.
Is the numbers you originally gave were those worldwide and that's why the overall number is lower or is there something else that (inaudible) like what are those numbers (inaudible)? Joe you're exactly right.
When we first talked about Road Glide we were doing it versus worldwide numbers Touring is skewed to the U.S.
And as we started talking more about the impact on U.S.
sales we kind of moved toward what percentage of Road Glide was of U.S.
sales.
So all the numbers are correct the difference is some are worldwide and the ones that we've been most recently talking about in terms of the 10% in the second quarter and the 8% in the third quarter coming up here are of U.S.
sales of all motorcycle all retail or all U.S.
retail sales.
Your next question comes from the line of Pat Archambault from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Great.
Thanks a lot guys.
Two questions from me.
One is just a clarification on the manufacturing issue.
Am I summarizing this correctly? Some of these supplier issues you've kind of corrected or you've gotten them sort of in line to where you want them to be.
Now it's really just a matter of premium freight going forward and that's kind of the cost that you see kind of trickling into the second-half.
That's my first question and then the second one relates to a country that's near and dear to my heart.
What's going on with Canada? I guess I wouldn’t have expected down a 10 [ph].
Is there something unusual happening there? So those are two for me.
Okay Pat.
Number one is you're absolutely correct.
The issues that we've faced largely in the supply chain delivering and ordering of Street parts is behind us.
However there are costs that would catch-up that supply chain because we do not have enough parts in a very long supply chain basically on the water coming to us.
And given the very strong demand that we have we're going to try to leapfrog that supply chain to get parts in the U.S.
plant.
And we've been talking about the U.S.
we have kept the flow of parts to India it's much closer to the source much easier to get parts there and that has been largely unaffected.
It's the U.S.
plant that we're talking about obviously affecting U.S.
sales.
The second question is with regards to Canada.
And to understand what's happening in Canada we have to talk about Canada is a distributor market for us and most other markets around the world we act as the distributor and the distributor's responsibility is to build the brand and manage the dealer network as well as manage currency and credit risk.
And the distributor we had in Canada has always done a fantastic job.
And as you know Pat over the last year we've seen a strong weakening of the Canadian dollar I think on a year-over-year basis about 8%.
And to deal with that our distributor pays us in U.S.
dollars so we do not have a currency risk with Canada per se and that’s why when we talk about our basket of currencies Canada never comes up.
However predominantly used bikes in the United States.
And that has – had an impact on our volumes as well as the tough weather conditions but we've also – a pricing gap there.
Now the distributor in Canada working with us here in Milwaukee is working on mitigating that and is put some store level promotions in place in the month of June and carrying that through into July.
And we've seen some event [ph] of the trend there but it’s clearly – we're disappointed with overall sales results in Canada.
Our next question comes from the line of Jaime Katz from Morningstar.
Your line is open.
and maybe you originally anticipated.
And then would you guys comment on how you feel the inventory in the channel is the quality? Okay.
With regards to on the overall sales we're not going to break them out.
They come in through the kind of the Street and Sportster segment.
But I can tell you that we are ahead of plan in terms of retail sales in India and Southern Europe.
And we are finding it in particular in Southern Europe a lot of people coming off of scooters and small motorcycles and things are going on plan to very well and it’s been very well received in those markets.
Our last question for today comes from the line of Joe Spak from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Great thanks for squeezing me in.
One first is one quick clarification when you are saying currency is now a slight positive for the year that’s at the profit level right now or at the sales level or is it both? So on a year-to-date basis currency is about flat for the first half.
So in the quarter currency revenue was very favorable with $7.6 million favorable and then we had cost of goods sold $9.6 million of favorable as we lapped year ago losses.
So those numbers the $17.2 for the quarter when we look at revenue for the half it’s flat.
All right thank you for your time everyone this morning.
The audio recording and slides from today's call will be available at harley-davidson.com.
The audio can also be accessed until August 5 by calling 404-537-3406 or 855-859-2056 in the U.S.
The PIN number is 64897481#.
We appreciate your investment in… [Ends Abruptly]  Good morning.
My name is Tanya and I’ll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Amy Giuffre Director of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you Tanya and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Harley-Davidson's third-quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
The audio for our calls is webcast live on harleydavidson.com and you can access the supporting slides on that site by clicking About Harley-Davidson at the bottom of the homepage then Investor Relations and Events and Presentations.
This morning Harley-Davidson's CEO Keith Wandell; CFO John Olin; and President of Harley-Davidson Financial Services Larry Hund will provide their perspectives on the quarter.
Following our prepared remarks we’ll open the call for your questions.
Our comments will include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks that could cause actual results to be materially different.
Those risks include among others matters we have noted in our latest earnings release and filings with the SEC.
Harley-Davidson disclaims any obligation to update information in this call.
With that let’s get started Keith?  Thank you Amy.
Good morning and thanks for joining us on today’s call and thanks for your interest and investment in Harley-Davidson.
As we noted in today’s earnings release the third-quarter financials were in line with our expectations.
Our business and financials are strong through nine months with year-over-year consolidated revenue up while net income and EPS grew double digits.
Retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles grew 3.8% worldwide and 3.4% in the U.S.
which topped extremely strong sales in last year’s third quarter.
You’ll recall that the launch of our initial Project Rushmore motorcycles in last year’s third quarter drew one of our largest single quarter retail increases in recent years.
They were up 15.5% worldwide and 20.1% in the U.S.
John is going to cover those details in more detail in a few minutes.
A strong contributor to this year’s third quarter retail lift was the roll out of our great line up of 2015 motorcycles in late August.
Today we have 36 models in our product line up.
There are seven new Project Rushmore motorcycles including three Road Glides that mark the return of this popular bike.
With world-class aerodynamics ergonomic fit passenger comfort and infotainment and audio performance Road Glide builds on the momentum from last year’s Rushmore launch.
These bikes underscore our commitment to delivering amazing motorcycles through customer-led design and the response has been great.
From introduction through the end of the quarter the new Road Glide models were the best selling 2015 Harleys and along with continued strong demand for Street Glides and Ultras they contributed to exceeding the strong sales in the year-ago quarter.
Other new Rushmore models include the CVO Street Glide the Electra Glide Ultra Classic Low and Ultra Limited Low and the Freewheeler a trike that’s all about hot rod attitude on three wheels.
Leading up to the 2015 launch the model year changeover in our plants was the smoothest in recent history which speaks to our many advances on the manufacturing front and the continued strong results in operating performance.
Further driving retail was a rebound in Sportster sales as well as increased availability of the Street 750 and 500.
The response to Street has been extremely positive.
In India three out of every four Harleys sold in the third quarter were Street and in Southern Europe Street has also been performing very well.
And Street is reaching the target audiences in the U.S.
both outreach customers and those new to the Harley-Davidson brand.
We are excited to begin expanding Street distribution to other international markets in late 2014.
We also see great opportunity with Street in our Riding Academy where enrollment is up this year and bringing new riders into the brand.
We believe this bodes well for our strategy of having riders learn on an authentic Harley that they can actually buy.
And then there is Project LiveWire.
Starting in the third quarter we’ve taken the Project LiveWire fleet of electric motorcycles on the road giving more than 3 000 demo rides to a broad mix of Harley and non-Harley riders alike.
By a wide margin those taking a LiveWire demo have told us the experience exceeded their expectations and they’d be interested in buying one.
Project Rushmore Street and LiveWire all demonstrate how we are staying true to our roots while broadening our reach to new riders worldwide offering cutting-edge products and features in today’s motorcycles and exploring tomorrow’s.
We continue to see the success of our product manufacturing and retail strategies which are delivering an outstanding customer experience driving bottom-line improvement and expanding the reach of the brand.
Through nine months sales to our U.S.
outreach customers have grown more than twice the rate of sales to core customers.
In the third quarter our share of 601-cc plus U.S.
market was a strong 56.3% the highest to-date this year.
International retail sales were up 4.8% for the quarter and the Asia-Pacific market has double-digit growth in both the quarter and year-to-date.
Fueling Asia-Pacific’s growth were India China and other emerging markets in the region.
Another indicator of brand strength and connection H.O.G.
membership is up worldwide and strong in established markets and new markets alike.
H.O.G.
membership in EMEA hit an all-time high in September.
So all-in-all we’ve achieved a lot so far this year and we’re on track for a year of growth and strong financial performance in 2014.
In closing I want to acknowledge the outstanding work and commitment of our employees our more than 1 450 dealers in 90 countries and our suppliers.
Their efforts to keep the customer at the forefront of all we do and to continuously take our products and customer experience to the next level are key to Harley-Davidson’s strong market leadership.
Now I’m going to turn it over to John with details on the quarter.
Thanks Keith and good morning everyone.
As we anticipated our third-quarter key financial metrics were down versus prior year.
This is a result of a planned shipment reduction to address retail inventory that increased behind soft retail sales in the second quarter.
Despite the impact of our shipment adjustment the business continued to perform extremely well with new product momentum strong productivity and focused spending.
On a year-to-date basis EPS is up 20.1%.
With that as background let’s discuss our Q3 results on slide 11.
During the third quarter Harley-Davidson Inc.
consolidated revenue was $1.30 billion net income in the quarter was $150.1 million and diluted earnings per share were $0.69 per share.
Operating income for the Motorcycle segment was $146.3 million 16.6% lower compared to last year’s third quarter.
The decrease in motorcycle business was driven by a 4.2% decrease in revenue behind a 6.2% lower shipments.
Motorcycle segment operating income was also impacted by a lower gross margin percent and higher year-over-year SG&amp;A spending.
At Harley-Davidson Financial Services operating income was up modestly year-over-year.
Also during the quarter we had lower year-over-year interest expense behind the retirement of our high interest debt in February.
We are pleased with the strength of the business through the first nine months of the year.
We continue to run the business for the long-term and focus on delivering strong margins and strong returns.
Now let’s take a closer look at third quarter performance starting with retail sales on slide 12.
We are very excited to report that Q3 worldwide retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles were up 3.8% over last year’s very strong increase of 15.5%.
This quarter’s results were driven by increases in both the U.S.
and international markets.
As we exited the third quarter we believe our brand is rock solid and core demand fundamentals were strong as ever evidenced by solid market share performance strong U.S.
outreach results a healthy mix of new-to-brand customers and a shorter repurchase cycle.
Third quarter worldwide retail sales also reflected retail momentum throughout the quarter driven by continued strength of our 2014 model year motorcycles and the highly successful introduction of our 2015 model year.
During the fourth quarter we expect continued worldwide retail sales momentum behind Street Road Glide and the complete line of Rushmore motorcycles.
On slide 13 let’s review the U.S.
market where third-quarter retail sales were up 3.4% compared to prior year.
We believe the factors that benefited U.S.
retail sales during the quarter were; first the original eight Rushmore models we launched last year continue to be highly successful at retail this year; second a strong 2015 model year launch including the return of Road Glide.
The sales were great with the initial Road Glide motorcycles turning very quickly when they hit the dealerships.
In addition we had very positive response from our new Low Touring models the Freewheeler trike and of course CVO Street Glide.
Third retail sales were robust with improved availability in the third quarter.
Early purchaser surveys suggest Street is attracting outreach customers that are new to the Harley-Davidson brand.
This is in line with our product strategy and supports our expectations that a majority of Street sales will be incremental.
And fourth as we anticipated Sportster motorcycle sales rebounded in the U.S.
following retail softness in the first half of the year.
We believe the pre-announcement of Street may have caused some customers to hold off their purchases until they could compare the varying features and benefits of Street and Sportsters.
We believe that each of these platforms addresses distinct customer needs evidenced by the fact that Sportster sales grew in Q3 and Street sold also very well.
Now turning to the market share in the U.S.
During the quarter we had a strong market share of 56.3%.
Market share was largely flat to prior year despite lapping significant year-ago share gains and continued headwinds from the absence of Road Glide for most of the quarter.
Through the first nine months U.S.
retail sales were up 1.9% and market share decreased 1.1 percentage points compared to last year.
During the third quarter there was significant progress in bringing dealer inventory in line with demand.
Our dealers’ efforts to sell through 2014 model year motorcycles have been very successful.
As we have discussed many times we are committed to aggressively managing supply in line with demand as demonstrated by the reduction in our shipment guidance last quarter.
Quarter-end inventory was up approximately 4 000 motorcycles compared to last year due in part to initial dealer fill of Street models for retail.
We continue to expect U.S.
year-end retail inventory to be up moderately from 2013 levels driven primarily by the addition of the new Street platform.
On slide 14 you’ll see retail sales in our international markets were up 4.8% in the third quarter.
In the EMEA region Q3 retail sales were up 1.7% driven by growth in the U.K.
Spain and France.
During the first nine months of 2014 our 601+cc market share in Europe was 12.0% down 0.6 percentage points versus the same period last year.
Year-to-date share was down 0.6 points as we lapped year-ago share gains and on the introduction of several performance orientated competitive models.
In the Asia-Pacific region retail sales were up 12.8% in Q3.
Retail sales in emerging markets within the region were up significantly driven by India where retail sales tripled during the quarter as a result of very robust demand for the new Street motorcycles.
The Latin America region was up 7.0% during the quarter driven by very strong growth in Mexico partially offset by a modest decline in Brazil.
We remain cautious on the Brazilian market as it continues to be impacted by a slowing economy consumer uncertainty and very aggressive price competition.
Retail sales in Canada were down 5.8% in the third quarter where we believe currency-driven price increases negatively impacted retail sales.
Since 2009 we have added 126 new international dealer points to our distribution network.
We believe that we can continue to realize strong international growth opportunities by expanding our distribution network and increasing our brand relevance by delivering new products such as Street.
On slide 15 you’ll see wholesale shipments of Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the quarter were down 6.2% compared to last year as we adjusted our production after a softer-than-expected second quarter.
Third quarter shipments finished within our expected shipment range of 49 000 to 54 000 motorcycles.
During the quarter the mix of Touring motorcycles increased 2.5 percentage points from prior year as Rushmore models continued to stimulate demand in the market.
Also during the quarter shipment mix of our Street and Sportster category was up 3.8 percentage points as we ramped up Street production through the quarter.
With our Street start-up issues largely behind us we have reached our expected production run rate and we continue to expect a significantly higher shipment mix of Street and Sportster motorcycles in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter.
On slide 16 you’ll see revenue for the Motorcycles &amp; Related Products segment was down 4.2% in the third quarter behind a 6.2% decrease in shipments.
During the quarter the average motorcycle revenue per unit increased $228 from the year ago quarter primarily driven by higher pricing and favorable mix.
On average our key currencies in the third quarter were weaker against the U.S.
dollar by approximately 1% compared to 2013.
During the quarter we introduced our new 2015 model year motorcycles.
Wholesale and MSRP prices have increased by an average of about 1%.
After adjusting for the cost of new content pricing net of cost was up 0.5 percentage point expressed as a percentage of revenue.
Parts &amp; Accessories sales were down 4.2% in the third quarter due to lower accessory shipments as we lapped the initial sell-in of Project Rushmore accessories in last year’s third quarter.
General merchandise sales were up 4.8% during the quarter.
The increase was driven by strong international sales partially offset by lower U.S.
sales as we move forward with our aggressive SKU reduction plan to help focus dealers on fast-moving products and to improve the customer experience with a more targeted assortment of popular styles.
On slide 17 you’ll see gross margin in the quarter was 34.9% which was down 0.4 percentage points compared to last year.
While gross margin in the quarter was impacted by unfavorable volumes currency raw materials and manufacturing costs margins were not down as much as we anticipated as we experienced better-than-expected mix and manufacturing performance.
During the third quarter mix was a benefit of $13.7 million which exceeded our expectations for the quarter.
While motorcycle family mix was unfavorable driven by higher Street shipments the mix of models within the families was favorable as customers continued to trade up the higher content models.
Also driving favorability in the quarter was a much richer mix of parts and accessories and general merchandise products.
For the fourth quarter we expect mix to be adversely impacted by an increase in Street shipments from Q3 levels as we now produce at planned rates throughout the fourth quarter.
Foreign currency exchange was $11.5 million unfavorable for the quarter.
This was driven by significant weakening of our key currencies within the third quarter.
The euro yen Brazilian real and Australian dollar devalued an average of approximately 7% from the beginning to the end of the quarter.
This resulted in an unfavorable revaluation of foreign-denominated assets on the balance sheet.
Our manufacturing costs in Q3 were unfavorable by $3.3 million driven by lost absorption on lower year-over-year production.
Manufacturing costs did finish better than expected behind strong productivity gains and lower-than-expected Street start-up costs in the quarter.
On slide 18 operating margin as a percent of revenue for the third quarter was 12.9% down 2.0 percentage points compared to last year’s third quarter.
Operating income of $146.3 million for the quarter was unfavorably impacted by lower gross margin and higher SG&amp;A spending.
SG&amp;A was adversely impacted by two recalls announced during the third quarter which resulted in a one-time charge of approximately $14 million.
Excluding recall costs SG&amp;A spending was lower on a year-over-year basis driven primarily by the timing of expenses which we expect will shift into the fourth quarter.
Going forward we will remain intensely focused on a cost structure that will enable growth and continuous improvement to drive our business to be stronger more flexible and more profitable.
Now moving on to our Financial Services segment on slide 19.
In the third quarter HDFS’ operating profit of $77.8 million was 2.2% higher than last year.
The two primary factors impacting third quarter results were; first net interest income was favorable $4.9 million driven by higher receivables partially offset by lower yields on receivables due to increased competition; and second the provision for retail credit losses was unfavorable by $7.7 million due to higher retail credit losses an increase in the reserve rate and growth in retail receivables.
Going forward we continue to expect pressure on HDFS’ operating income as a result of modestly higher credit losses and tightening net interest margins due to increasing competition and rising borrowing costs.
Now Larry will provide more detail on HDFS’ operations on slide 20.
Larry?  Thanks John and good morning.
During the third quarter HDFS retail motorcycle loan originations increased 4.3% or $35.4 million compared to the same period last year.
The higher originations were driven by increased new U.S.
motorcycle sales and a higher average amount financed.
HDFS retail financing market share of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles sold in the U.S.
was largely flat at 59.7% in the third quarter of 2014.
Finance receivables outstanding increased 7.9% compared to a year ago driven by growth in both the retail and wholesale portfolios.
HDFS continues to provide loans in both the prime and sub-prime segments.
Year-to-date approximately 80% of our retail loan originations were prime.
We believe the overall loan portfolio was solid comprised of profitable loans in both segments.
Moving on to credit performance on slide 21 the 30-day delinquency rate for retail motorcycle loans at the end of the quarter was 3.0% which was favorable compared to the third quarter of 2013 rate of 3.11%.
This was the lowest third quarter 30-day delinquency rate in the last 13 years.
However as we anticipated annual retail credit losses for the first nine months increased by 20 basis points to 1.08% compared to 2013 due to lower recovery values on repossessed motorcycles the impact of changing consumer behavior and lower levels of recoveries from accounts charged off in prior years.
During the third quarter HDFS continued to maintain a strong liquidity position delivered solid credit performance and contributed strong profitability.
We remain focused on enabling sales of Harley-Davidson motorcycles while providing an attractive return to Harley-Davidson Inc.
Now I’ll turn it back to John.
Thanks Larry.
Now let’s take a look at cash and liquidity on slide 22.
You will see that at the end of the quarter we had $1.04 billion of cash and marketable securities.
In addition we had approximately $1.6 billion of available liquidity through bank credit and conduit facilities.
We currently have and intend to continue to maintain a minimum of 12 months of projected liquidity needs in cash and/or committed credit facilities.
During the third quarter HDFS successfully completed a $600 million medium-term note offering with a coupon rate of 2.4%.
In addition we renewed our $600 million U.S.
conduit facility.
We further demonstrated our efforts to return value to our shareholders by repurchasing 2.6 million shares of Harley-Davidson stock for $169.6 million during the quarter.
As we have stated returning value to our shareholders is a top priority.
We will continue to evaluate opportunities to enhance value for our shareholders through increasing dividends and share repurchases.
Now I’ll review the remaining HD Inc.
financials on slide 23.
I would like to highlight two items.
First with regards to operating cash flow we generated operating cash of $966.9 million through the first nine months of 2014.
Operating cash flow was up $141.8 million from last year primarily driven by lapping of last year’s pension contribution of $175 million and increased earnings partially offset by higher wholesale finance originations.
And second our year-to-date tax rate was 34.9% compared to 34.3% in the year-ago period.
The higher tax rate reflects the absence of the R&amp;D tax credit in 2014.
On slide 24 you’ll see our overall expectations for the remainder of the year.
We continue to expect to ship 270 000 to 275 000 motorcycles on a worldwide basis in 2014 up approximately 3.5% to 5.5% from 2013 shipments.
During the fourth quarter we expect to ship between 46 500 and 51 500 motorcycles which is flat to up 10% compared to last year’s fourth quarter shipments of 46 618 motorcycles.
We also continue to expect 2014 operating margin for the Motorcycle segment will be between 17.5% and 18.5% up from 16.6% in 2013.
We believe 2014 operating margin will benefit from a modest increase in gross margin and from SG&amp;A falling as a percent of revenue.
For HDFS we continue to expect operating income to be down modestly in 2014 compared to 2013.
We continue to expect capital expenditures in 2014 to be between $215 million and $235 million.
And finally we now expect our full-year 2014 effective tax rate to be approximately 35.0% down 0.5 percentage point from prior guidance due to a higher projected benefit from the U.S.
manufacturing deduction.
So to recap during the quarter we experienced increased retail sales and delivered solid market share despite extremely strong year-ago comps; further raised the new product bar with the introduction of our 2015 model year motorcycles; increased retail availability of Street motorcycles in the U.S.
India and Southern Europe; and delivered shareholder value through dividends and repurchase of $170 million in company shares.
As we look forward we feel great about our brand the business’ core demand fundamentals our ability to leverage the company’s cost structure and the success we are experiencing with our key growth strategies.
We will continue to position the company for long-term success by investing in growth through new products expanding brand relevance to more customers in both the U.S.
and abroad and through international expansion.
We will remain focused on delivering strong margins strong returns and value to our shareholders.
Thank you for your continued confidence and investment in Harley-Davidson.
And now let’s take your questions.
Our first question comes from the line of Sharon Zackfia from William Blair.
Your line is open.
Two questions I guess.
First on currency I mean obviously there is a lot of concern among investors about what a strengthening U.S.
dollar might mean for Harley competitively and also from a gross margin perspective.
So perhaps you could talk about that maybe longer term into 2015 on the competitive structure on the gross margin.
And then secondarily it sounds like the Street is doing really really well overseas and I’m just wondering how many we’re going to produce in India this year and kind of what is the capacity constraint on the India manufacturing plants?  Let’s start with our currency.
In the third quarter we did see a little bit of devaluation on a year-over-year basis which was unfavorable to revenue by about $1.8 million.
The biggest brunt of the decline year-over-year was the revaluation as we saw a lot of inter-quarter devaluation.
So as we look forward into the fourth quarter if currencies stay where they exited the third quarter we would expect an impact to revenue in the 1.5% to 2% range.
Now some of that is hedged.
So we do expect currency to be unfavorable in the fourth quarter not to the same extent that we saw in the third quarter but some pretty significant unfavorability.
And then as we move into 2015 it really depends on what happens to overall currencies.
As we’ve discussed we do hedge.
We hedge typically out four quarters in a stair-step fashion.
So we’ve got the most coverage on in the in-quarter which would be the fourth quarter in this situation and it kind of steps down over the ensuing three quarters.
So if things don’t change from here there will be significant currency headwinds next year which will affect revenue primarily and then that will be somewhat offset by the hedge positions that we have.
The second question that you had Sharon is with regards to Street and sales overseas.
We couldn’t be more pleased with the way Street is selling both in the U.S.
and overseas.
As Keith had mentioned three out of four motorcycles in India are Street.
In addition during the third quarter we sold more Street motorcycles internationally than we did domestically and that’s even taking into consideration that distribution in the U.S.
was a little bit light.
So as we look forward what we’re going to do is start to expand Street to our other markets around the world.
We’ll start late in the fourth quarter and shipping a few hundred units into Europe and start to get that dealer network ready.
We’ll be in full production for Europe in the dealer fill in the first quarter of 2015.
In addition we’ll expand to Japan China Australia and Mexico in the beginning of 2015 and then towards the end of 2015 into 2016 we’ll expand to the rest of our international markets.
And from a capacity standpoint we certainly have the capacity to meet that rollout plan.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Spak from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Two questions really.
One I was wondering if you could give some indication as to the percent mix between ‘14 and ‘15 model year on I guess on the sales but really more specifically on the current inventory situation in the U.S.
And then the second question is I was wondering if you can quantify some of the hits to gross margin in the quarter from some of the subvention you did with the financing deals during the quarter.
We don’t break out sales between model years within the quarter.
I guess certainly we like to stress is that overall retail sales were very strong in the third quarter especially in the United States where we’re getting over a comp of up 20%.
We did end the quarter with inventories heading in the right direction.
Remember we took inventory out after a soft second quarter and are focused on making sure that we maintain an incredibly strong brand and an incredibly strong dealership and limit discounting in the best fashion that we can and that’s through managing inventory in line with demand.
We did see inventories fall and we exited with retail inventories up 4 000 units and a lot of those being Street dealer fill.
So we made great progress in getting the inventories where we want them to be.
By the time we’re out of the fourth quarter we’ll be right back in line with our original plan which is to have inventories up modestly behind on the Street dealer fill.
When you look at overall 2014 versus 2015 carryover is a little bit heavier this year than it was last year and again by year end we’d expect to have that in line.
The second question was the impact of some of the subvention that we’ve done on the financials I believe.
First of all let me give a kind of an idea what we did do.
In line with making sure that we limit discounting in the network as much we can we help -- supported our dealers through offering two finance programs with No Money Down and a limited lower rate financing program.
They were only offered to our very top tier customers.
Through the quarter they represented sales of about 5% of the motorcycles in the United States so it didn’t impact a whole lot of sales.
We don’t believe there was a big incremental impact on sales in general however it was effective in limiting discounting as well as moving out model year 2014 motorcycles and the overall hit to the financials was very nominal.
Again it wasn’t on a lot of volume.
It’s included in the Q3 results and you’re talking in the probably $2 million to $3 million range.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Kennison from Robert W.
Baird.
Your line is open.
Maybe Larry I’ll ask you the question on the sub-prime market.
There have been more and more concerns about that particular market.
Are you seeing any divergence in how sub-prime tiers are performing? Number one.
And then secondly you commented that there were lower recovery values.
Could you comment on used bike values and whether maybe your production cut has helped stabilize that market? First on the sub-prime market I think what we’ve seen is sort of what we’ve expected for a period of time which is is that market I would say is just starting to normalize.
Sub-prime credit had absolutely tremendous performance if you kind of look back at 2011 and ‘12 as far as very very low levels of delinquency and loss.
We think sub-prime is still very attractive.
It’s performing very well compared to our models and we are priced for it.
But as we expected we are seeing credit losses starting to I’ll call it normalize and increase somewhat in that market.
Second regarding lower recovery values on repossessed motorcycles I think you are seeing a couple of impacts there.
I think Harley-Davidson dealers are taking a lot of trades with all the Rushmore product there selling so that their need for purchasing repossessed motorcycles at the auctions has declined versus where it was a year ago because they feel they have sufficient inventory of used bikes that they are getting from the trade market so that’s put a little bit of downward pressure on recovery values.
I think it will be interesting to see how that plays out over the next six nine months as we go into next year’s riding season.
Hopefully that’s bottomed out but I think too early to call that.
Your next question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Just a few questions.
First housekeeping just wanted to make sure I was doing some simple math properly.
On the $14 million recall expense you highlighted I’m getting that that was about $0.04 impact to your earnings in the quarter.
Second John thank you for the color on SG&amp;A.
You said that some expenses will shift into the fourth quarter.
So with that in mind how should we think of SG&amp;A in the fourth quarter? We’re estimating that it’s flat year-over-year.
Just maybe some color there.
And then finally Larry we just talked about HDFS and your percentage of prime and sub-prime and I’m just wondering first could you just tell us what percentage of non-HDFS financed bikes you think are purchased with cash? And then if you take your share of those purchases with cash isn’t it fair to say that your prime profile if you include cash is closer to about 90%? Thank you.
Okay.
Felicia this is John.
Your math is correct.
$14 million would be in the neighborhood of $0.04 on EPS for the quarter.
And with regards to SG&amp;A so SG&amp;A was up this quarter and if you take out the one-time recall we’re actually about $6 million favorable and what we believe is that $6 million is all timing and that will shift into the fourth quarter.
We said all year long that we expected SG&amp;A to be up on a year-on-year business but fall as a percentage of revenue and with that we would expect our fourth-quarter SG&amp;A spending to be up probably in the 3% to 5% range.
So then on prime sub-prime this is probably anecdotal because we don’t have perfect information on cash.
We’ve always estimated that about 20% of sales are cash.
Now once again you never know is that coming from a home equity line of credit or some other source but roughly we’ve always thought that that’s about right.
And regarding our mix you’re right.
We do a lot of prime financing but we are a full credit spectrum lender and if you look we’ve been fairly consistent around this 80/20 mix of prime sub-prime in loans we financed for a good number of years now.
Your next question comes from the line of Gerrick Johnson from BMO Capital.
Your line is open.
I was wondering on Street your original guidance was about 7 000 to 10 000 shipped in the year I was wondering if that still holds or if you’ve tightened that up and maybe how many were shipped in the quarter? And then second question your Rushmore has been great.
We’ve seen a bounce back in Sportsters but maybe just some conversation as to why Dyna and Softail still a little bit weak? Thank you.
Thanks Gerrick.
This is John.
[technical difficulty] we still feel very good about that.
No change there.
And then with regards to the custom segment so over the last several quarters when we show our shipment as a percentage of total we’ve certainly seen that custom has been down and that is nothing less than what we expected right? We’ve been investing in the Rushmore line of products and also in the Street and we would expect both of those to go faster than the custom segment and that’s what we’re seeing in the overall shipments.
And the other thing is and important to note when we look at our custom motorcycles when we came out with Rushmore in line with our Fatten the Tail strategy it’s purpose was to encourage people to trade up and we are seeing that and we’re seeing folks that have been on our custom motorcycles trading up to products like Street and Street is viewed by customer as a custom motorcycle - sorry Street Glide and now Road Glide and so we are seeing those folks trade up to our Rushmore product which is in line with the strategy and certainly more profitable for us.
So overall what we’re seeing in custom is what we expected and also to note with regards to custom segment or the large cruiser segment in the third quarter as well as on a year-to-date basis we picked up share of that market.
Your next question comes from the line of James Hardiman from Longbow Research.
Your line is open.
Congrats on a real strong quarter here.
John maybe you could just help us peel back the layers on the gross margin a little bit.
You talked about it being down 250 bps headed into the quarter.
I'm assuming that currency only pushed you in the wrong direction.
You finished down just 40 bps.
Firstly can you quantify the balance sheet devaluation in the third quarter like you have done a couple of times in the past? And then just maybe walk us through some of the individual items.
It seems like there was a pretty sizable delta versus how you were thinking about mix in some of these other items.
Could you just walk us through why those were so much different than you thought heading into the quarter?  Absolutely James.
Let’s start with the currency piece.
Again when you break up the components of currency $1.8 million was unfavorable on the revenue line and that leaves $9.7 million unfavorable largely driven by the devaluation.
As a matter of fact the devaluation marking the foreign-denominated assets was a little bit greater than that and partially offset from some favorable hedge performance that we had on in the quarter.
And net debt is unfavorable $11.5 million which did impact gross margin by about nine-tenths of a gross margin point and you’re right that’s more than we had anticipated going the other way.
The other part of your question James was - is that we did expect gross margin to be more unfavorable than it was.
We couldn’t be more pleased to see that to be wrong.
But it was really driven by the two pieces.
One is mix and we did expect the mix to be unfavorable in aggregate for the quarter and it ended up being strongly favorable at $13.7 million.
And let me go through the pieces of that very quickly is we’ve talked about the varying pieces of mix and family mix is typically the biggest driver of overall mix and that’s a mix between the various families that we have.
That was unfavorable as we anticipated in the quarter and that goes back to seeing that Street percentage of total shipments rise to 3.8% -- increase of 3.8 percentage points.
And it did rise and that was unfavorable.
Where we were pleasantly surprised is in two other areas of mix one being model mix and we’re seeing strong model mix over the last several quarters and expected that to temper a little bit as we lapped Rushmore on a year-over-year basis and those are our customers that are trading up within a family and buying higher trim or higher content models and so that’s a customer buying an Ultra Limited versus an Ultra or Street Glide Special versus a Street Glide.
They continue to be very strong in their trading up the higher trim models again which is a great thing.
And then the last piece of mix that was very favorable that we didn’t anticipate was Related Products mix and that’s in both Parts &amp; Accessories and General Merchandise and customers just choosing a higher mix of products.
For example in General Merchandise higher profit leathers and riding gear and in Parts &amp; Accessories chassis products suspension and braking products.
The other area of favorability was in manufacturing expense.
While it was unfavorable in [indiscernible] by $3.3 million we anticipated to be more unfavorable driven by lower production and that lower production is due to us taking out the 9 000 units.
Again however we had very strong productivity and the plants have been doing a wonderful job the overall operations have been doing fantastic for the last several quarters and the third quarter was no different a little bit better than we had anticipated and also Street start-up costs.
We talked about last quarter expected them to be about $5 million.
They are a little bit shy of $3 million.
So we feel very good about how the team has dealt with that and as I mentioned in the preamble we put the start-up issues behind us and we’re running at full production for Street.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Conder from Wells Fargo Securities.
Your line is open.
Thank you and congrats to everyone on a great execution in the quarter here.
Couple of things John.
If you could just revisit here the company-level inventories built here.
Can you talk about what's behind that? And then collectively just to confirm I think you just said it though but you're pretty well done with the Street start-up cost supplier issues so just to confirm that? And then two others real quickly here.
The Street how much did you get into Europe if any at all during the quarter? That would seem like it would continue to help what could be a little bit of economic headwinds? And then finally any update on timing of LiveWire? You had it in the slide deck you said your reception was much better than expected in the past.
Just any update on the timeline there? Thank you.
First question was company-level inventory yes if you look on our balance sheet inventories are up probably in the 15% range.
That is driven by finished goods inventory partially offset by general merchandise inventory being down.
We talked about general merchandise as we prune SKUs we expect that inventory to come down and it is.
We do have higher company-owned inventory finished goods inventory on a year-over-year basis and that’s for the sole reason of is we’re working off the model year 2014 and aggressively managing the supply of units out in the field and so we held back a few thousand motorcycles and those will get shipped in the fourth quarter here.
Next question was Street start-up costs.
Street start-up issues are largely behind us.
We do expect some nominal start-up costs in the fourth quarter but nothing that we would expect to even need to report on but we are running at speed at originally planned speed at this point and while a lot of the third quarter - we didn’t have full distribution which probably impacted retail sales we will be fine by the time we end the year and be ready for the selling season in the United States as well as in international markets.
With that we would expect the mix of Street in the fourth quarter to increase a fair amount from what we saw from the third quarter as well because we will be producing at full run and again expect that to have an adverse impact on Q4 mix.
The next piece is Street in Europe.
We have been shipping into Europe from the initial onset in the Southern European countries of Italy Spain and Portugal.
We have not shipped beyond those in the third quarter.
We do anticipate to ship a couple to a few hundred units here in the fourth quarter but very nominal overall volumes in Europe.
As I had mentioned most of the shipments for the dealer fill will take place early in 2015.
And then your fourth question was the timing of LiveWire.
We’re still kind of where we talked about the last time we talked is we’re gathering consumer feedback as Keith had mentioned the feedback has been absolutely fantastic.
Our plans is to take the demos and expand them from the United States which we’ve been doing this year and will do the balance of this year into Europe and Canada in 2015 and so Tim we’re going to continue to collect feedback and make sure we understand the requirements of a great electric motorcycle and then we’ll make a decision at that point.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Hovorka from Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Just a couple quick questions.
One can you give what Road Glide was as a percentage of retail in the third quarter ‘13 and then what it was in the third quarter of ‘14? And then if I use your 56.3% market share of the 600+cc market it looks like you sold at retail a little bit fewer than 700 Street 500s.
One I wanted to make sure that number was correct.
And two if I recall there was almost 1 700 in the second quarter at retail.
What's the delta there? I'm surprised that it's gone down by that much? The first question is Road Glide so as I had mentioned Road Glide it still represented a headwind in the third quarter even though it is actually our fastest turning product coming out and meeting all our expectations.
A year ago third quarter we had 8% of U.S.
sales were Road Glide.
This year’s third quarter about half that amount about 4% is in Road Glide.
So we’re coming up to speed and you look at the third quarter really an inflection point.
So for the three previous quarters the absence of Road Glide has been a pretty stiff headwind and as we start to move forward over the ensuing four quarters we would expect a nice tailwind from Road Glide.
But in the third quarter we sold about half as many this year’s third quarter as we did last year’s third quarter.
With regards to the overall Street we don’t provide a break out of the 500 to 700 and to be honest the 500 to 750 to be honest I didn’t completely follow the math but I think the answer to your question is in the first half of the year and in particular the second quarter we shipped a fair amount of 500s in for the Rider Academy training and they were all shipped by the end of the first half and what you’ve seen in the second half is 500s for consumer use.
And if there’s -- any other questions you can follow up with Amy.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Badishkanian from Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Just wanted to follow-up a little bit on that question as well as just overall in the fourth quarter.
What are some of the puts and takes obviously Road Glide becomes a tailwind and you have much easier comparisons in the fourth quarter than you did in the third quarter but what are some of the other factors we should think about when we are modeling out retail sales for next quarter? Overall I think we’ve got a tremendous amount of retail sales momentum.
We’re lapping a very difficult quarter from one of the greatest launches that we’ve had and an incredible product and Rushmore and certainly beating that.
So again as I just mentioned certainly the third quarter was an infection point.
We feel great about the fact that we had flat share and that flat share just to make sure everyone's clear is that is one-tenth behind the highest share that we’ve ever had as a company in any quarter.
So we feel great about where we’re at from a standpoint of market share.
But Greg as you pointed out as we start to move forward we will get a tailwind certainly from Road Glide but you got to remember that we also added four other models of Rushmore and those Lows are going to open up a whole new audience to a lot of people that couldn’t sit on a touring bike.
We’ll have the lowest seat height of any touring bike in the heavyweight category.
So we’ve got that.
And then of course Street availability.
We still were hampered a fair amount in the third quarter in not having enough in the dealerships.
We will rectify that as we move through the fourth quarter and again we will end the fourth quarter and be ready for spring selling season with a full array of Street products here in the United States as well as some additional international markets.
Other than that the core fundamentals of the brand are all performing extremely well.
Our outreach sales did fantastic in the second quarter Sportster rebounding as we had expected repurchase intent repurchase cycle new to brand the industry is performing very well.
We couldn’t be more excited about what’s in front of us.
Our next question comes from the line of Jaime Katz from Morningstar.
Your line is open.
I guess I'm just curious about the Street models.
I think originally they were supposed to act as a drag on gross margin.
When do you see those coming more in line maybe with corporate averages? And then secondly can you talk a little bit more about Latin American performance? It seems like there was a pretty big disparity between last quarter and this quarter.
I know you called out Mexico on this quarter's slides but was there anything else that may have contributed to that? Thanks.
When we look at the Street motorcycle what we have said is that we would expect about half a point of dilutive impact to overall gross margin percent certainly accretive to profits and that’s just certainly had a lower price point and a lower profit per unit.
And as we get those folks into the family they will quickly trade out of Street into some of our bigger and more profitable motorcycles.
But that thinking hasn’t changed.
Given some of the start-up costs that we’ve had that half a point dilutive aspect is more about three-quarters of a point this year but once we’re past the start-up issues we would expect Street to still be a little bit dilute as we continue to sell and grow that business.
But again as we look at the long-term health of the overall business and how quickly people will move from that to other parts of the product and the new folks that is bringing in we couldn’t feel better that we’re doing great and certainly on strategy.
When we look at what the early performance is of Street the vast majority of customers coming in are new to the brand as well as outreach customers.
So again going back to the Fatten the Tail strategy you’ve got Rushmore on one side that’s doing a fantastic job encouraging trade up and you’ve got Street bringing in a very large percentage of new and outreach customers.
So we’re doing fine but overall margins no big change in margins with regards to Street.
The second question that you Jamie is Latin America performance and yes we are very pleased to see that turn a bit from the second quarter.
We were actually down on a year-over-year basis and that was driven by Brazil.
We have seen improvement in Brazil from the second to third quarter but Brazil is still down modestly in the quarter and the gains that you’re seeing at 7% up is largely driven by very strong performance in Mexico.
The business in Mexico has been performing well for quite a while as was Brazil and Brazil economic situations changed a bit consumer confidence has shifted a bit.
So we’re a little bit cautious on Brazil but seeing improvement from the second to third quarter there.
Our last question comes from the line of James Hardiman from Longbow Research.
Your line is open.
Just a couple of quick follow-ups here.
On the inventory front obviously you’ve spoken to for a while increasing inventories as a result of the higher SKU count.
Now you’re specifically talking about the Street but I guess help me walk through how to think about the rest of your line up there’s a lot of new skews year-over-year that you’ll finish this year with versus where you were last year.
You had all the new incremental Rushmore bikes and then there were some mid-year introductions as well.
Are those just going to displace other retail units at retail or should there potentially be some incremental inventory as a result of that? And I guess sort of bigger picture do you expect to finish this year at the right amount of inventory or do some of that carryover into 2015 where there might be some incremental inventory fill? We expect to finish exactly where we’ve always intended to finish this year.
And again I can’t stress enough that we are completely committed to keeping a very clean dealer channel and aggressively managing the supply in line with demand and that’s what prompted our actions last quarter.
And we will be back on track by the end of the year and made great progress in the third quarter.
So to answer your question we do expect year-end retail inventory to be up moderately behind dealer fill in Street.
The last majority of any increase will be due to Street.
We would expect the rest of the line to be flat to slightly up in overall inventory.
We’ve always got models coming in and out of the lineup James and we feel that we got the right inventory levels and they can manage with what they have there.
Street’s being a little bit different being a new platform and those we need to get more slots into the dealership for.
So inventories will be but primarily driven by Street.
All right thank you everybody and thanks for your time this morning.
The audio recording and slides for today’s call will be available at harleydavidson.com.
The audio can also be accessed until November 4 by calling 404-537-3406 or 855-859-2056 in the U.S.
The pin number is 815-0664#.
We appreciate your investment in Harley-Davidson.
If you have any questions contact Investor Relations at 414-343-8002.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Susan and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I’d like to welcome everyone to the Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Amy Giuffre Director of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you Sue and welcome to Harley-Davidson’s fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
The audio for our call is webcast live on harleydavidson.com and you can access the supporting slides on our site by clicking About Harley-Davidson at the bottom of the homepage then Investor Relations and Events and Presentations.
Our comments will include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks that could cause actual results to be materially different.
Those risks include among others matters we have noted in our latest earnings release and filings with the SEC.
Harley-Davidson disclaims any obligation to update information in this call.
This morning we’ll hear from Harley-Davidson's CEO Keith Wandell; CFO John Olin; and President of Harley-Davidson Financial Services Larry Hund.
Then we’ll take some questions.
So let’s get started Keith? Good morning and thanks for joining us on the call.
John will provide the details on the quarter and the year but first I want to highlight some of our major achievements for 2014 and then briefly touch on some of our future opportunities.
Full year diluted EPS grew more than 18% making this the fifth consecutive year of double digit EPS increases.
Consolidated revenue topped the $6 billion mark for the first time since 2006.
Gross and operating margins were up strongly driven by our focus on operational efficiencies and our commitment to continuous improvement in every aspect of our business.
A big piece of these improved efficiencies came from manufacturing.
2014 marked our second year of flexible Surge Production.
The financial impacts of Surge and all the other improvements in manufacturing in recent years have been remarkable to say nothing of the added flexibility that Surge gives us to capitalize on changing market conditions.
On the product side our new 2015 motorcycles have been extremely well received.
Retail sales of new Project Rushmore motorcycles including the return of the Road Glide the introduction of Classic Low and Ultra Limited Low touring bikes CVO Street Glide and the Freewheeler have been very strong.
We also rolled out the Street 750 and 500 last year designed for a new generation of global riders and the response has been outstanding.
And in the fourth quarter retail sales of Street drove double digit gains in Harley-Davidson’s small cruisers in the United States.
To date the majority of initial US Street purchases have been new to the Harley-Davidson brand.
In the international markets Street is selling very well.
And in India the Street 750 was recently named Motorcycle of the Year.
In 2015 Street will be available in nearly all of our markets worldwide.
Also we continued to see an extraordinary level of interest and positive feedback for a bike that’s not even on the market Project LiveWire Harley-Davidson’s first electric motorcycle.
In 2014 we gave more than 6800 demo rides in the US with the vast majority of riders saying that it far exceeded their expectations.
The demo tour is moving into Europe Canada and Asia Pacific in 2015.
In line with our strategic plan [indiscernible] increasingly significant role for the company.
In 2014 international sales of new Harley-Davidsons grew at more than 5% and accounted for more than 36% of total retail Harley-Davidson motorcycle sales.
That’s up from 30% in 2008.
We’ve said for several years that we expect international sales to grow at a faster rate than domestic sales.
And in 2014 that came into play.
The Asia Pacific EMEA and Latin America regions posted their highest new retail motorcycle sales on record for each region.
And we’re also seeing success as a result of our US outreach strategies.
In 2014 for the third straight year sales of new Harleys to our outreach customers consisting of young adults women African Americans and Hispanics grew at more than twice the rate of sales to core customers.
From Street to Touring we’re delivering motorcycles that bring these new riders into the Harley-Davidson family.
So overall 2014 was another great year and we remain focused on managing the business for the long term building on our strategies and driving continuous improvement.
It’s been a little over five years since we unveiled our strategies to focus solely on the Harley-Davidson brand to be customer led in everything we do to transform every facet of our business and ensure we’re developing great leaders at every level of the company to drive our performance.
Looking at what we’ve achieved since 2009 there’s no doubt in my mind it was the right strategy and I’m extremely proud of every one of our team and the proof is in the results.
But looking ahead our strategy will continue to focus on maximizing our opportunities in order to increasingly realize our full potential as a growing global company.
That includes what we see as tremendous opportunities in bringing new wow products to market further extending our international reach and expanding our opportunities with outreach customers.
It also includes further optimizing Harley-Davidson’s agility in manufacturing product development and customer retail experience.
With ongoing strategic direction and clear focus our business objectives remain extremely relevant: first outperform the S&amp;P 500 over time; to grow international retail sales at a faster rate than US sales; and within the US to grow sales to outreach customers at a faster rate than sales to our core customers; and grow earnings at a faster rate than revenue.
So to recap we’ve seen proof of what can be accomplished through a sound strategy focus and determination and by working together as one company one team moving in one direction.
We also know our work is never done when it comes to continuous improvement and I have every confidence that we will continue to achieve great things together.
With that I want to thank you for your interest and your investment in Harley-Davidson and I’ll turn it over to John for more detail on the quarter and the year.
Thanks Keith and good morning everyone.
I'll discuss our fourth quarter and full-year financial results starting on slide 10.
During the quarter Harley-Davidson Inc.
consolidated revenue was $1.20 billion net income in the quarter was $74.5 million and diluted earnings per share were $0.35 per share.
Operating income for the Motorcycle segment was $35.9 million 40.9% lower than last year's fourth quarter.
Segment revenue was flat to prior year.
The decrease in the Motorcycle business operating income was driven by a lower gross margin percent and higher year-over-year SG&amp;A spending.
Operating income at Harley-Davidson Financial Services was up 1.8% year-over-year.
Also during the quarter we had lower year-over-year interest expense behind the retirement of our high interest debt last February and a lower effective tax rate.
We will continue to focus on delivering strong margins and strong returns over the long term.
Now let’s take a closer look at fourth quarter performance starting with retail sales on slide 11.
Q4 worldwide retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles were up 2.8% over last year’s increase of 5.7%.
This year’s Q4 results were driven by strong increases in our international markets partially offset by a decline in the US.
Fourth quarter worldwide retail sales reflected an outstanding consumer response to our new 2015 model year motorcycles including Street which sold very well in initial rollout markets.
Retail sales gains from the new model year bikes were partially offset by a year-over-year decline in retail sales of our initial Rushmore models as we lapped the enthusiastic customer response after the initial launch of Rushmore in 2013.
For the full year worldwide retail sales were up 2.7% compared to 2013.
2014 retail sales reflected very challenging US weather conditions in the first half of the year and the absence of the popular Road Glide models for much of the year.
As we exited the fourth quarter we believe our brand and core demand fundamentals remain very strong.
In 2015 we expect continued momentum behind our model year 2015 motorcycles including increased worldwide distribution of Street motorcycles.
Let’s take a look at US market on slide 12.
Retail sales in the US were down 1.6% in the fourth quarter compared to the prior year which included initial Rushmore launch.
We believe the factors that affected US retail sales during the quarter were: first retail sales of the seven new model year 2015 Rushmore models were very strong; as anticipated Road Glide sales were very robust and they represented about 14% of US retail sales in Q4 versus last year when Road Glide only represented about 4% of sales.
Second retail sales of the new Street motorcycle appear to be largely incremental.
We’re pleased to see that the majority of initial Street purchasers were new to the Harley-Davidson brand reinforcing the strategic importance of this new growth opportunity.
In fact on a combined basis retail sales of our Sportster and Street motorcycles were up double digits in the quarter.
And finally our retails sales of the first Rushmore models which launched in August of 2013 were down year-over-year as we lapped the initial enthusiastic customer response to these highly innovative game-changing motorcycles.
Q4 2013 retail sales of non-Road Glide Touring models were up in excess of 40% compared to Q4 2012.
That set up a very tough comparison for Q4 2014.
For the full-year US retail sales were up 1.3%.
As I’d mentioned full year retail sales benefitted from strong sales of Rushmore and Street motorcycles.
However we believe 2014 retail sales were adversely impacted by weather and the absence of Road Glide.
Full year market share decreased 1.6 percentage points largely driven by the absence of Road Glide.
We believe our market share was also impacted by increasing discounting by our competitors late in the year.
Finally as expected US dealer retail inventory was up approximately 2900 motorcycles at the end of 2014 compared to 2013 largely due to the initial dealer fill of Street models for retail.
We believe year end dealer inventories is in a good position going into 2015.
On slide 13 you'll see retail sales in our international markets were up 9.2% in the fourth quarter and 5.4% for the full year.
We’re very pleased with our international performance in 2014.
In fact we experienced all-time high retail sales for EMEA Asia Pacific and the Latin America regions.
In our EMEA region Q4 retail sales were up 8.7% driven by growth in nearly all countries throughout the region.
In particular we saw strong growth in Southern Europe Germany Switzerland and emerging markets in the region.
For the full year EMEA retail sales were up 6.4% and full year market share in Europe was 12.0% down 0.8 percentage points behind the introduction of several performance-oriented models by the competition.
In the Asia Pacific region retail sales were up 14.2% for the fourth quarter.
Retail sales in emerging markets within the region were up significantly driven by India where retail sales more than doubled during the quarter as a result of very robust demand for our new Street motorcycles.
In addition sales continue to be very strong in China.
And in Japan sales growth turned positive following a couple down quarters which were driven by the impact of an increase in the consumption tax.
For the full-year retail sales were up 11.8% in our Asia Pacific region.
Latin America region retail sales were up 4.7% in the quarter as a result of strong growth in Mexico which Brazil up modestly.
For the full year retail sales in the Latin America region were up 2.1%.
Finally retail sales in Canada were down 5.7% in the fourth quarter and down 10.8% for the full year.
We believe currency-driven price increases impacted retail sales throughout the year.
While we’re encouraged by fourth quarter international performance we remain concerned with ongoing economic challenges in several markets.
We will continue to focus on what we can control which includes building our brand experience across the world and expanding our distribution network in emerging markets.
Since 2009 we have added 136 new international dealer points to the distribution network.
We believe we can continue to realize strong international growth opportunities by prudently expanding our distribution network and increasing our brand relevance by delivering new products such as Street and Rushmore which appeal to the global customers.
On slide 14 you’ll see wholesale shipments of Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the quarter were up 1.2% compared to last year.
Fourth quarter shipments finished within our expected range of 46 500 to 51 500 motorcycles.
During the quarter the mix of Touring motorcycles increased 3.5 percentage points from the prior year as Rushmore models continued to stimulate demand in the market.
Also during the quarter the shipment mix of our Street and Sportster category was up 3.1 percentage points reflecting our first year of Street shipments.
For the full year we shipped 9900 Street motorcycles worldwide at the high end of our expected shipment range of 7000 to 10000 motorcycles.
We expect that the Street and Sportster category mix will be considerably higher in 2015 behind increased Street shipments.
2014 international shipments as a percentage of the total were 35.7%.
We are committed to investing in international growth and continue to believe international retail sales will grow at a faster rate than domestic retail sales over the next few years.
On slide 15 you'll see revenue for the motorcycles and related product segment was flat in the fourth quarter with a 1.2% increase in motorcycle shipments.
Revenue was primarily impacted by unfavorable currency exchange.
For the full year motorcycle segment revenue was up 5.9% behind a 3.9% increase in motorcycle shipments.
During the quarter the average motorcycle revenue per unit decreased $133 from the year ago quarter behind unfavorable currency exchange and unfavorable mix partially offset by higher pricing.
On average our key currencies were weaker against the US dollar by approximately 9% compared to Q4 2013.
For the full year 2014 average motorcycle revenue per unit increased $584 from 2013 driven by higher pricing and favorable mix partially offset by unfavorable currency exchange rates.
Parts and Accessories sales were down 2.2% in the fourth quarter and up 0.2% for the full year.
For the full year P&amp;A retail sales benefitted from strong international sales partially offset by lower accessories sales following the strong launch of Project Rushmore accessories in 2013.
General merchandise was down 1.1% in the quarter and down 3.7% for the full year compared to 2013.
Both the fourth quarter and full-year results were impacted by our aggressive SKU reduction plan across our apparel offering in an effort to transform the retail customer experience with a more targeted assortment of popular styles.
On slide 16 you’ll see gross margin in the quarter was 30.5% which was 1.0 percentage points lower than last year.
Gross margin performed very well with volume price mix all being favorable during the quarter partially offsetting unfavorable foreign currency exchange.
During the quarter overall mix was a benefit of $4.4 million driven by a rich sales mix of parts and accessories and general merchandise.
As expected motorcycle family mix had an unfavorable impact on margin driven by higher Street shipments.
The mix of models within the families was largely flat to prior year.
For the first quarter 2015 we expect mix to adversely impact margin driven by increased shipments of Street motorcycles which were not in year ago shipment.
During the first quarter we will continue to expand Street distribution to most of Western Europe Japan Australia Mexico and Canada.
Foreign currency exchange was $22.8 million unfavorable for the fourth quarter.
This was driven by the significant weakening of our key foreign currencies within and on a year-over-year basis.
The euro yen Brazilian real and Australian dollar devalued an average of 6% from the beginning to the end of the quarter and were 9% weaker compared to the prior year quarter.
This resulted in an unfavorable revenue impact of approximately 2.5% and an unfavorable revaluation of foreign-denominated assets on the balance sheet.
Full year gross margin was 36.4% which was up 1 percentage point from last year.
We are very pleased with our 2014 gross margin growth and the balance composition of margin growth across volume price mix and manufacturing productivity.
On slide 17 operating margin as a percent of revenue for the fourth quarter was 3.5% down 2.4 percentage points compared to last year’s fourth quarter.
As anticipated operating income of $35.9 million for the quarter was unfavorably impacted by lower gross margin and higher SG&amp;A spending.
For the full year operating margin as a percent of revenue was 18.0% up 1.4 percentage points compared to last year.
We’re very pleased with our ability to leverage both our gross margin and operating expenses in 2014.
Going forward we remain intensely focused on the cost structure that will enable growth and continuous improvement to drive our business to be stronger more flexible and more profitable.
Now moving on to our Financial Services segment on slide 18 in the fourth quarter HDFS operating profit increased $1.1 million or 1.8% compared to last year.
The fourth quarter increase was driven by $5.4 million of improved profitability from on non-lending activities.
On a full year basis HDFS posted operating profit of $277.8 million a decrease of 1.9% compared to 2013.
We were very pleased with the performance of the financial services business.
The business remains very profitable with industry leading returns and a strong portfolio.
Now Larry will provide more detail on HDFS’ operations on slide 19.
Larry? Thanks John and good morning.
During the fourth quarter HDFS retail motorcycle loan originations increased 4.7% or $22.3 million compared to the same period last year.
The increase was primarily driven by a 1.6 percentage point increase in retail financing market share for the fourth quarter compared to last year and a higher average amount financed per motorcycle.
For the full year HDFS continued to have a strong retail financing market share of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles sold in the US.
Our market share increased to 56.8% compared to 54.5% in 2013.
Finance receivables outstanding increased 7.4% compared to a year ago driven by growth in both the retail and wholesale portfolios.
We believe the overall loan portfolio was solid comprised of profitable loans funded in both the prime and subprime segments.
In 2014 approximately 80% of our new retail loan originations were prime.
Moving on to credit performance on slide 20 the 30-day delinquency rate for retail motorcycle loans at December 31 2014 was 3.61% or 10 basis points lower than year end 2013.
This is the lowest year-end 30-day delinquency level in at least 13 years.
Annual retail credit losses increased by 13 basis points to 1.22% compared to 2013 primarily driven by lower levels of recoveries from accounts charged off in prior years and modestly higher credit losses as a result of changing consumer behavior.
We are pleased with the progress at HDFS in 2014 as we continue to contribute strong profitability delivered solid credit performance and maintained a strong liquidity position.
We remain focused on enabling sales of Harley-Davidson motorcycles while providing an attractive return to Harley-Davidson Inc.
as demonstrated by the $100 million dividend HDFS paid to Harley-Davidson Inc.
this month.
Now let me turn it back to John.
Thanks Larry.
Now let's take a look at cash and liquidity on slide 21.
You'll see at the end of the quarter we had $964.2 million of cash and marketable securities.
In addition we had $1.22 billion of available liquidity through bank credit and conduit facilities.
We currently have and intend to continue to maintain a minimum of 12 months of projected liquidity needs in cash and/or committed credit facilities.
During the fourth quarter we successfully completed a $400 million 3-year medium term note offering with a coupon rate of 1.55%.
Also this month we completed a $700 million asset-backed securitization transaction with a weighted average interest rate of 1.19%.
We further demonstrated our efforts to return value to our shareholders by repurchasing 3.3 million shares of Harley-Davidson stock for $222.1 million during the quarter.
As we have stated returning value to our shareholders is a top priority.
We will continue to evaluate opportunities to enhance value for our shareholders through increasing dividends and repurchasing shares.
Now I'll review the remaining Harley-Davidson Inc.
financials on slide 22.
I'd like to highlight two items.
First with regards to operating cash flow the company generated operating cash of $1.15 billion in 2014.
Operating cash flow was up $169.6 million from last year primarily driven by lapping of last year’s pension contribution of $175 million and increased earnings partially offset by higher wholesale finance originations And second the full-year tax rate was 34.2% compared to 34.1% in the year-ago period.
During the quarter the R&amp;D tax credit was reinstated for 2014 so full year benefit was recognized entirely in the fourth quarter.
The summary for the full-year 2014 is on slide 23.
We had net income of $844.6 million in 2014 which was up 15.1% compared to 2013 and earnings per share was up 18.3%.
The motorcycle segment operating income was up 15.2% compared to prior year.
The motorcycle segment growth was driven by strong revenue growth and improved gross and operating margins.
As expected HDFS income was down slightly during 2014 behind higher credit losses.
Finally we had lower year-over-year interest expense behind the retirement of our high interest debt last February.
On slide 24 you'll see our overall expectations for 2015.
In 2015 we expect to ship 282 000 to 287 000 motorcycles on a worldwide basis up approximately 4% to 6% from 2014 shipments.
We believe the underlying worldwide demand fundamentals for Harley-Davidson remains strong.
We expect shipping growth will be driven by the strong appeal of the Harley-Davidson brand; great model year 2015 and 2016 motorcycles; full year Road Glide availability improving availability and expanding distribution of the new Street motorcycles continuing outreach momentum in the US and international expansion.
During the first quarter we expect to ship between 79 000 and 84 000 motorcycles which is up approximately 4% to down 2% compared to last year’s first quarter shipments.
For 2015 we believe operating margin for the motorcycle segment will be between 18 and 19% compared to 18.0% in 2014.
In 2015 we expect gross margin will be up modestly impacted by both puts and takes.
On the positive side we expect favorable impact from motorcycle pricing incremental margin driven by higher motorcycle production and strong productivity gains.
On the negative side we expect lower gross margin as a result of unfavorable foreign currency exchange increased pension expense and unfavorable mix.
To dimensionalize the foreign currency exchange risk if currency held at yesterday’s exchange rates throughout 2015 our motorcycle segment revenue would be adversely impacted by approximately 2.25%.
And while we have a significant portion of the year hedged at attractive rates we would expect about half of the unfavorable revenue dollar impact to translate into lower gross margin.
Pension expense will increase in 2015 as a result of a lower discount rate and change in mortality assumptions.
Finally we expect the impact of mix to be negative as we continue to increase distribution of Street motorcycles.
Looking at SG&amp;A we expect spending to increase in 2015 as we continue to invest in future growth opportunities but we expect it will decline as a percent of revenue as we leverage our current SG&amp;A spending.
For HDFS we expect operating income will be down modestly in 2015 compared to 2014 as a result of higher credit losses and tightening net interest margins due to increasing competition and rising borrowing costs.
Capital expenditures in 2015 are expected to be between $240 million and $260 million as we increase investment in product development focused on bringing exciting new products to market and as we continue to invest in our systems infrastructure.
Finally we expect our full-year 2015 effective tax rate will be approximately 35.5% which reflects the absence of the R&amp;D tax credit in 2015.
So looking back we are very pleased with our 2014 results and key accomplishments.
In 2014 we successfully increased sales gross margin and operating margin which resulted in an 18.3% increase in diluted earnings per share; expanded our flexible manufacturing capability at our US plants; continue to grow outreach in excess of two times our core customer growth rate in the United States; launched seven new Rushmore motorcycles in the new Street platform; revealed Project Livewire our first electric motorcycle; expanded our international dealer network; and delivered shareholder value through a dividend increase of 31%; and repurchased $604 million in company's shares.
We're excited about 2015 and we'll continue to position the company for long-term success by remaining focused on executing our growth strategies and delivering strong margins strong returns and value to our shareholders.
Thank you for your continued confidence and investment in Harley-Davidson.
And now let's take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Rod Lache.
Your line is open.
Good morning everyone.
It’s actually Pat Nolan on for Rod.
Just wanted to clarify a couple of points on the walk.
So John I think you said it was 3.25% would be the impact of FX at current spot rates and you expect you’ve got half of that impact to your next year? Yes.
So if I’m doing the math right that’s approximately like $15 million or so drag year-over-year? No Pat it would be significantly more than that so let’s take – let’s understand what’s happening; we’ve seen tremendous devaluation starting back in the third quarter devalued 7% another 6% in the fourth quarter.
And if you look from January 1 of this year through January 28<sup>th</sup> yesterday’s rates there was another 4% devaluation.
And that’s taking our basket of currencies our major four currencies which in the euro the yen the Australian dollar and the Brazilian real and the mix that we have we’re down quite considerably.
So what we’re saying here is that if the rates held at yesterday’s where the exchange rates finished yesterday and they held throughout the year that would take our expected revenue for 2015 and reduce it by 3.25 percentage points.
So you take motorcycles segment revenue and take it down by 3.25 points.
Now with that obviously we have hedges on during the year and we talked about that.
We typically hedge in a stair step fashion so we have some hedges on but those will diminish as the year goes on and we would expect out of that revenue hit 3.25% of our Motorcycle segment revenue half of that would fall and be negative impact to gross margin in terms of the dollar gross margin dollar impact.
Your next question comes from the line of James Hardiman.
Your line is open.
So obviously you’re not going to give us margin I’m sorry segment level guidance and I do appreciate the shipment guidance of four to six.
I guess my question is it seems like Road Glide is going to be a pretty sizable benefit to the shipment guide and it sounds like you’re saying Street is going to be up pretty meaningfully as well.
I guess the question is A can you quantify those benefits to the shipment guide and B if not how are you thinking about everything else right your non-Road Glide non-Street guidance because it seems like for those of us that are [indiscernible] on the numbers that four to six represents flat to maybe even down shipments of everything else how should we think about that? Thanks James.
You know we’re not going to break it out by segment.
And as we talked about in the preamble we couldn’t feel better about the company’s or the brands fundamentals from market share to industry to outreach to repeat and the new to brand and so on and so forth.
So that will be a big driver.
We’ve got the model year 2015 motorcycles which we certainly saw in the fourth quarter the new ones perform extremely well including Road Glide.
And then as you mentioned we got the full year Road Glide and Street coming back along with international expansion.
But we also have some headwinds when we look at next year.
Those being one as lapping the Rider Academy [ph] sell in which was about 2200 units in the United States in the first half of last year.
So we got to lap that.
And then secondly as we talked about in the fourth quarter we had very significant year-ago enthusiasm for Rushmore and so we got some big gains to lap in the first and second quarters.
They tend to taper off each other quarters.
And then finally competitive discounting is coming into play a little bit here.
When we take all of that we couldn’t feel better about our shipment guidance of up 4% to 6%.
And we do expect both the new models as well as our core bikes to grow during that to deliver the 4% to 6%.
Your next question comes from the line of Gerrick Johnson.
Good morning.
Now that you have full distribution this year of the Street 500 and 750 can you give us the new goalpost for what do you think you can ship in the year? Thank you.
Thanks Gerrick.
We don’t provide guidance on all of our segments.
We did provide it for Street in the first year just to get everybody in the ballpark and we provided it’s 7000 to 10000 units came in at the very high end of that and we couldn’t be more pleased with that.
But no Gerrick we’re not going to provide another guidance for Street.
Suffice it to say is that we would expect Street to be up quite considerably from 2014 levels in 2015 as one we have a full availability in the United States for the selling season as well as our initial four markets last year and we’ll be expanding throughout most of the rest of the world markets through 2015.
Your next question comes from the line of Joseph Spak RBC Capital Markets.
Hi this is [indiscernible] signing in for Joe Spak.
Just quick question what is your industry retail growth view for 2015 and what is HOG US retail view that’s embedded in your 2015 shipment guidance? We don’t provide a forward look at industry retail sales but what I can tell you is we couldn’t be more excited about the industry growth that we saw in 2014 the increased investment in the industry.
So in 2014 we were up 2.5% and that’s with a very slow start to the year.
Industry was only up about 1% through the first half due to a very difficult weather conditions so grew much faster in the back half.
But when we talk about the very strong brand fundamentals certainly the industry growth is one of them and we would expect to see the industry to grow quite well as we move into 2015 but we do not provide a forecast of it.
And certainly some of that thought goes into our shipment guidance of up 4% to 6%.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Conder.
Thank you.
John if you can just give us one shot at - it’s all FX question here little bit is housekeeping how much of the fourth quarter 2014 was due to the balance sheet revaluation? And then on a go forward basis with FX you commented that you of course have your forward 12 months rolling hedges can you give us any color on those four major currencies your exposure what percentage are hedged for your expected 2015 exposure at this point and any levels where you’re hedged? Great Tim thank you.
On the fourth quarter currency let’s just take a run through we don’t break out specifically the revaluation but I can give you a sense of magnitude.
Revenue was hit by $26 million by that year-over-year 9% devaluation.
We did pick up some favorability in cost of goods sold of about $3.5 million and that was driven by very favorable gains in terms of the hedges that we did have in place for the quarter a lot of those being put on several quarters before at very attractive rates.
However the balance sheet revaluation was very significant.
I don’t quantify exactly the number but it was certainly over $10 million.
So that brought the overall impact down and ultimately it hurt operating profits by $23 million which represented about 1.4 points of gross margin.
So ex currency our gross margin was actually pretty strong and certainly would have been up.
Overall revenue in the quarter was hurt by about 2.5%.
As we look forward to the first quarter Tim we would expect actually more unfavorablities than we saw in the fourth quarter.
So we expect more than $23 million that we had in the fourth quarter and we would expect revenues to be down about 3.25% for the first quarter.
And you asked about the positions that we have we don’t provide those because they change on a regular basis.
And as the year goes on obviously the hedge positions change.
Suffice it to say that in the dimentionization of our credit risk in 2015 all of that’s incorporated.
So as of today all of our positions are incorporated and we would expect revenue to be down 3.25% and half of that falling through to impact gross margin.
So that’s kind of an all-in number for you.
Your next question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix.
Just two quick questions.
John you said earlier in your remarks in your answer to someone else’s question that you’re seeing a little bit of competitive discounting right now I wanted to see if you could address that? And then just with FX you have given us good color thank you very much at current rates.
So I’m just trying to figure out if rates change is the percentage change is it linear or is it exponential? Felicia on discounting we talked about this the last couple of quarters and we haven’t seen a dramatic shift in discounting.
When we look in the fourth quarter we have seen a stepped up level of discounting.
We always see a lot of volatility in the fourth quarter one it’s the lowest sales month right it’s less than 16% of our retail sales but also there’s a lot of positioning by competition in clearing out inventories.
So we saw two-thirds of the folks that have been discounting dramatically increased the discounting on a year over year basis.
So it’s something that we’ll keep a close eye on.
But you got to remember that our competitors’ models are little bit different.
The majority of motorcycles that they sell in a given year are old model years and the fourth quarter was no different.
55% to 75% of the models that the competition sold were over a year old and so just maybe just cleaning out inventories.
But that had a big impact on overall market share in the quarter as well.
We saw discounts anywhere from $300 a bike to $2000 so just something for us to watch going forward but we did see an increase in discounting in the fourth quarter.
The second question Felicia was the exchange rates.
If they move from here they are not linear right because we got revaluation of assets depending on what happens within quarters and we got the fact that we are constantly changing our hedge position.
As we talked about we put on hedges in a steer step fashion over four quarters we’ll continue to do that.
So it is not linear but certainly with that information should provide a good starting point.
But then as the year goes on and things change that could change a bit.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Hovorka.
Two questions.
Do you anticipate shipping one-to-one wholesale versus retail in 2015? And then secondly is the FX impact included in the gross margin outlook the up modestly for 2015? Joe let me start with the second one to just finish with FX.
It is all incorporated in our operating margin guidance of 18% to 19%.
When we look at that currency guidance we would expect it to be a headwind of about half to three-quarters of gross margin point.
So obviously ex currency operating margin would be a fair amount higher.
And again we couldn’t be more excited about what we’ve done in terms of the manufacturing side of the business to deliver those margins and our ability to price and those types of things.
So the underlying cost structure and momentum that we’ve got is fairly significant we couldn’t be more pleased.
Certainly currency has thrown us here a pretty big headwind.
So the second question is with regards to I’m assuming retail inventory at the end of the year so this year we were up exactly where we thought.
And again I couldn’t say we couldn’t be more prouder of the way that the organization responded to the soft or the poor weather in the first half and the ability of our flexible manufacturing system to adjust very quickly.
At the end of the year we ended with retail inventories exactly where we expected in the United States.
They were up but almost all driven by the Street dealer fail.
As we look forward and feeling very good about where our inventory position is today we would expect inventory to rise behind just the higher sales basically holding our days inventory constant year over year.
So there would be a modest increase in inventory on a year over year basis as we exit 2015 based on our forward look of retail sales.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Jonas.
Hi this is Neil in for Adam Jonas.
Just very quickly one last FX housekeeping question.
Are you able to tell us your euro-dollar assumption for next year along with any other rate assumptions you’re able to offer? And then finally can you elaborate on your 2015 outlook in some of the macro troubled markets like LatAm and Canada? I’m sorry the second part of the question? He’s just looking for assumptions on certain currencies going forward.
With regards to our assumption on currencies we don’t provide that an economist can get it right.
What we’ve done is we typically hedge on a routine basis to give us more time to react to currencies but we’re no better at guessing those things as anyone else and we’re certainly not going to provide our assumptions going forward.
The dimentionalization that we gave just gives you a point in time but not a forward look at what we expect currencies to do.
And then your thoughts on macro going forward for LatAm and Canada? Overall when we look at some of the economies in our international markets we do have some concerns out there certainly Brazil has had a tough row to hoe here.
We would expect some tough settings still to continue there; Japan and then even Europe.
Europe had pretty significant industry growth in motorcycles but the economy there is something we want to keep a close eye on.
And then Canada given the exchange rates and oil and Canada has been a little bit tough.
So when we look at the world markets again we couldn’t be more excited about our international opportunity but are little bit cautious on a few markets out there.
Your next question comes from the line of Jaime Katz.
So it looks like gross margin is expected to shake up modestly in the year ahead despite FX headwinds so can you maybe offer more of the positive commentary on where you think your best opportunity is to capture that gross margin expansion is? And then just any additional commentary that you might have on what resonated well in international markets which performed very well in the recent quarter outside of that Street model? Great.
Opportunities on operating margin is very simply – we priced our model year 2015 motorcycles and that’s going to continue to drive margin opportunity both in dollars as well as percent.
The other is there’s incremental margin coming from increased sales that 4% to 6% shipment increase.
And Jamie as we’ve talked about in the past we’ve had our core margin of about 36% but for each incremental bike that we put through the system here it’s an incremental margin of about 47%.
So that will drive a lot of benefit in terms of overall gross margin percent as well.
And then finally the business model that we’ve put together and the flexible manufacturing that we’ve got working and the focus that the plans have on continuous improvement the systems that we’ve put in are all driving fantastic productivity out of the plants and we would expect that to continue into 2015.
Again I can’t say enough about how strong that’s been.
The second question that you asked is with regards to our international growth we’ve talked a lot about international we’ve invested we’ve expanded the dealer network and we expect that to continue in 2015.
But aside from Street and we’ve talked about Street three out of four motorcycles in India are Street in Southern Europe it sold very well it’s bringing a lot of new people into the brand and we’ll clearly expand that in the first quarter here to many more markets around the world.
But we can’t overlook how well our other products are doing internationally.
And the core products are all up this year and expected to be up next year but in particular Project Rushmore motorcycles are selling extremely well internationally.
For example in Europe we’re well over 20% growth in our Touring product and that’s happening in Asia in Latin America as well so we couldn’t be more excited about the overall portfolio internationally.
Your next question comes from the line of Gregory Badishkanian.
Just on the international front trends were really solid there.
With the headwind of currency and maybe some macro issues how do you see your pricing changing in the first half at retail Harley motorcycle pricing at retail and then how do you think that will maybe compare versus some of your competition? Our overall approach to managing currencies has been to sell our products in local currencies right.
And we keep local prices stable that way and then we manage overall currencies kind of back here as a basket of currencies and then manage that through the P&amp;L.
And we believe keeping prices stable at the market level is the best way to build and manage a premium brand and it’s worked very well for us.
What we’re seeing here is certainly unprecedented one to see the magnitude of change and to see everything moving in the same direction obviously we’ve given some dimentionalization on the impact on our earnings.
So we’re certainly concerned and we’ll look at all options to deal with it.
But let me tell you Greg is that we’re going to do what’s right for this brand in the long term and we’re going to work through it.
But whatever we do decide to do it will be in the best interest of the brand going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of David MacGregor.
Just to build on the international line of questioning you’ve talked in the past about trying to get 100 to 150 dealers you’re kind of approaching the high end of that range now you’re talking a lot about growing international side of the business can you sort of lay out for us what the plans are in terms of dealer development over the next couple of years? One we look to continue to expand the dealer network and you can expect that the dealers that will open up will be in line with what you saw in 2014.
But more importantly is making sure that we’re increasing throughput through those dealers and making sure that all our products are there and ready to go when we do open those dealers.
And again we’re very excited about the opportunity and we feel that there’s a lot more to gain in distribution over the next several years.
Your final question for today comes from the line of Patrick Archambault.
It’s actually Dave [indiscernible] on for Pat and glad to make on to the wire here.
Just a question circling back to the Q4 shipment you ended up towards the lower end of your guidance range can you kind of mention what really drove it into that lower range was it the competitive pricing was it a stronger use bike marketers or something else maybe we’re not thinking about? No David our desire and our mandate is aggressively manage supply in line with demand.
We knew we’re going to have a tough retail sales quarter in the fourth quarter given the fact that the non-Road Glide Touring bikes were up 40% on a year-over-year basis.
And what we wanted to do is manage to an inventory level that’s appropriate to continue to maintain the premium nature of our brand and we did exactly that.
And we ended up exactly where we expected exactly where we planned a year ago for inventories to end up which were up driven only by Street.
So we shipped in to hit those inventory levels.
All right thank you John and thank you everyone for calling in and thanks for your time this morning.
The audio recording and supporting slides will be available at harleydavidson.com.
The audio can also be accessed until February 12 by calling 404-537-3406 or 855-859-2056 in the U.S.
The pin number is 5737851 and then pound.
We appreciate your investment in Harley-Davidson.
If you have any questions please contact Investor Relations at 414-343-8002.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Lisa and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
I'll now turn the call over to Amy Giuffre.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you Lisa and good morning everyone and thanks for joining Harley-Davidson's first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
We webcast the audio for our call live on harley-davidson.com and you can access the supporting slides on our site by clicking About Harley-Davidson at the bottom of the home page then Investor Relations and Events and Presentations.
Our comments will include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks that could cause actual results to be materially different.
Those risks include among others matters we have noted in our latest earnings release and filings with the SEC.
Harley-Davidson disclaims any obligation to update information in this call.
Participating on today's call will be Harley-Davidson's CEO Keith Wandell; incoming CEO Matt Levatich; and CFO John Olin.
Following our comments we'll take some questions.
So let's get started.
Keith? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Amy.
Good morning and thanks for joining us on today's call.
As always we appreciate your interest in Harley-Davidson.
As you know this is my last earnings before retiring on May 1 so let me just say that it's been a tremendous privilege to work here for the last six years with an outstanding team from our employees to our dealers and suppliers.
And also to get to know so many of our customers investors and all of you who cover us.
During the last six years our team has made incredible gains in how we bring new products to market how we produce them and how we provide the best customer experience in the industry.
We've significantly grown our global footprint and broadened our U.S.
customer base.
And while first quarter retail results didn't meet our expectations and we are adjusting shipments to manage supply in line with demand and protect our premium brand the fact remains that Harley-Davidson stands in a position of great strength thanks to the hard work of our entire team.
We continue to improve our financial performance and operations reflecting the ongoing power of our transformation and how it drives our operating effectiveness.
Just to note a key major of financial performance the 39.1% gross margin percentage that we reported this morning is the highest in at least the last 15 years.
We are the undeniable market leader in the 601cc-plus segment of the motorcycle market with a broad and outstanding line of products and retail motorcycle sales six times those of the nearest competitor in the U.S.
The Harley-Davidson brand is among the most iconic on the planet a position of strength that we've built over many decades.
We've got incredible breadth and depth in our retail distribution and a compelling strategy that's focused on growing our reach to new customers in the U.S.
growing internationally and continuously improving every aspect of how we operate.
As we noted in today's press release we now have the breakout of Harley-Davidson's market share for 2014 by demographic group.
And for the seventh straight year we remain the number one seller of new on-road motorcycles in the U.S.
to each of the demographic groups that we track both in the 601cc-plus segment and across on-road motorcycles of all displacements.
Turning to international markets while some parts of Europe were affected by currency and soft economic conditions in the first quarter other parts of the EMEA region did well.
For example it was our best quarter ever in our Central Eastern and Southeastern European markets as well as South Africa.
In Asia-Pacific we had our strongest quarter ever in India and China as well as exceptional initial demand for the Street 750 in Korea Vietnam and Thailand.
And Street is doing very well in its initial rollout in Australia and New Zealand among others.
In Latin America sales were up double-digits in Mexico with about half of the increase coming from the Street 750.
Clearly Street is hitting the mark.
I also want to touch on some recognition Harley-Davidson has received in recent weeks.
We're placed in the top 10 in the Forbes ranking of top employers in America based on a national survey of more than 20 000 employees at U.S.
companies.
And on the brand side we were named 2015 Motorcycle Brand of the Year in the EquiTrend Harris Poll annual study of brands that's based on familiarity quality and consideration.
I mentioned these as a reflection of the passion and dedication of our workforce as well as the power of our brand.
Our team's many accomplishments during my time here demonstrate the power of our strategy and being customer-led and I couldn't be more proud of everyone.
And I personally believe Harley-Davidson's best days are yet to come.
Harley-Davidson has a remarkable leader in Matt Levatich as its next CEO.
Matt has an outstanding track record.
He knows this business in and out and has been a driving force behind our strategy with the vision to take Harley-Davidson to great places.
So with that let me turn it over to Matt.
Harley-Davidson Motor Company</strong> Thank you Keith.
I don't want to take too much time because I know there's a lot to get to and I'll be talking with many of you again in the coming days and weeks.
I do want to take this opportunity though to thank Keith for his inspired leadership.
Keith has always been too modest to take credit for returning Harley-Davidson to strength establishing a culture of leadership and charting a clear vision and strategy for the future.
But everyone associated with this company will continue to be inspired by his tremendous contributions.
And we all have great confidence in the future for our position of strength and industry leadership.
In his comments Keith touched on a few of Harley's many strengths from an incredibly talented and passionate employees and our powerful global dealer network to our brand and industry leadership our manufacturing product development and retail prowess our increasingly diverse customer base and of course our unrivaled motorcycles.
We've been in the motorcycle business continuously through all the many ups and downs for 112 years.
For the last six we've built on our strengths and taken our capabilities to a whole new level with agility to perform in a world and marketplace that is more dynamic and complex than ever.
While our business and industry will always have challenges Harley-Davidson also has incredible opportunities.
We have a clear and compelling strategy and we're running this business for long-term performance.
That means keeping on the throttle to further leverage our strong product development and manufacturing capabilities even as we increasingly focus on maximizing our potential at retail to grow internationally and to further broaden our reach with new customers here in the United States.
As good as we may be today we know we can build on our many strengths to be that much better tomorrow.
So thank you and now here's John with the details on the quarter.
Thanks Keith and Matt.
Before I get into the details I'd like to take a minute to thank Keith for his service to this great company.
I will personally miss Keith a ton.
I would also like to congratulate Matt on his new role.
There is not a better person or a more capable leader to take Harley-Davidson into the future a very exciting future filled with great opportunity.
Now let's discuss our first quarter financial results starting on slide 13.
During the quarter Harley-Davidson Inc.
consolidated revenue was $1.67 billion net income in the quarter was $269.9 million and diluted earnings per share was $1.27.
Operating income from the Motorcycle segment was $345.5 million slightly lower than last year's first quarter.
Segment revenue was down 3.9% behind significantly unfavorable currency exchange and lower year-over-year shipments.
Despite the lower revenue the Motorcycle business operating margin was up 0.8 percentage points driven by a higher gross margin percent and flat year-over-year SG&amp;A spending.
Operating income at Harley-Davidson Financial Services was up 2.3% year-over-year.
Also during the quarter we had an lower effective tax rate.
We continue to focus on delivering strong margins strong returns over the long term.
Now let's take a closer look at first quarter performance starting with retail sales on slide 14.
Q1 was a tough quarter with worldwide retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles down 1.3% compared to last year's increase of 5.8%.
Retail sales were soft in both the U.S.
and several international regions during the quarter.
First quarter worldwide retail sales continued to reflect an outstanding consumer response to our new models including Street which sold very well in the initial rollout markets and in new markets which were added throughout the quarter.
In the U.S.
retail sales were impacted by increased competitive price discounting.
The year-over-year comparison also reflects lapping the very enthusiastic reception to the initial Rushmore models.
Internationally sales were mainly impacted by lapping last year's favorable weather throughout Europe and also lapping the significant pull-forward of sales in Japan in advance of the April 2014 consumption tax increase.
As we exited the first quarter we believe our brand and core demand fundamentals remain very strong.
However in the near term our U.S.
business is under pressure from increased very aggressive competitive discounting enabled by the dramatic shift in world currencies.
Consequently we believe it is prudent to adjust our shipment plan for the full year.
We now expect to ship 276 000 to 281 000 motorcycles worldwide which represents growth of approximately 2% to 4% versus prior year.
Our previous guidance was 282 000 to 287 000 motorcycles.
It is critical for Harley-Davidson to support a healthy retail channel and protect our premium brand by aggressively managing supply in line with demand as we have consistently done over the past several years.
Going forward we expect continued success as we execute our long-term growth strategies.
We remain very confident in our business and the great opportunities that lie ahead.
Let's take a look at U.S.
market on slide 15.
First quarter retail sales in the U.S.
fell short of our expectations down 0.7% compared to the prior year.
We believe the factors that affected U.S.
retail sales growth during the quarter were: first as expected we lapped the very enthusiastic reception to the initial Rushmore launch.
Q1 2014 retail sales of non-Road Glide Touring motorcycles were up a very strong 35% compared to the prior year a tough year-over-year comparison for Q1 2015.
Second we experienced adverse weather conditions in certain regions of the U.S.
and finally continued pressure from significant price discounting by most of the competition which increased from Q4 2014 and was up significantly compared to last year's first quarter.
Given the levels of competitive inventories in the retail channel coupled with foreign exchange that was favorable for our competitors we expect aggressive discounting from the competition will continue for some time as they work through what we believe to be excessive retail inventory.
Partially offsetting these challenges we continue to experience success with our latest Rushmore models launched last August and with sales of our Street motorcycles.
Street 750 sales continue to drive our performance in the small cruiser segment which grew double digits on a year-over-year basis.
During the quarter the industry grew 9.0%.
We had a very strong market share of 51.3%.
We believe the industry's robust growth during the quarter bodes well for motorcycling.
However our share was down 4.7 points versus prior year.
While we anticipated some level of share loss following the 13.4 points of market share gains in recent years our market share in Q1 2015 was more severely impacted than we expected as a result of increased price discounting by the competition.
This is not the first time we've experienced period of extreme discounting by our competitors and likely won't be the last.
However we will continue to protect our premium brand.
We will not take a short-term view of the current competitive situation and compete by discounting.
We will continue to manage the Harley-Davidson brand for the long term.
We continue to aggressively manage supply in line with demand and ship to the low end of our guidance.
At the end of the first quarter U.S.
retail inventory was up 6 600 units on a year-over-year basis primarily due to Street dealer fill but also higher than expected due to soft retail sales in the quarter.
On slide 16 you'll see retail sales in our international markets were down 2.4% in the first quarter as we lapped very strong year-ago retail sales growth of 10.9%.
In our EMEA region Q1 retail sales were down 5.6% driven by lapping last year's very favorable weather conditions across Europe current soft economic conditions in some markets and currency-driven volume declines in markets where we do not sell in local currencies such as in Russia.
Europe market share in Q1 was 9.8% down 1.5 percentage points behind the introduction of several low-priced models by the competition.
In the Asia-Pacific region retail sales were down 1.1% in the first quarter.
The decline was entirely driven by the lapping of year-ago retail sales growth of 33.1% in Japan as sales were pulled forward in advance of the consumption tax increase in April 2014.
Excluding Japan Q1 retail sales in the Asia-Pacific region were up nearly 20%.
Emerging markets within the region especially India and China continue to post very strong growth.
Latin America region retail sales were up slightly in the quarter as a result of strong growth in Mexico largely offset by soft retail sales in Brazil.
Retail sales in Brazil have been impacted by a slowing economy consumer uncertainty and very aggressive price competition.
Finally retail sales in Canada were up 5.7% in the first quarter as we lapped currency-driven pricing actions initiated last year by our distributor.
While we remain cautious in the near-term outlook given the economic challenges in some international markets we are focused on the long-term growth strategies.
Despite the volatility in global retail sales we believe we can continue to realize strong international growth by prudently expanding our distribution network building our brand experience across the world and delivering exceptional products that inspire riders.
On slide 17 you'll see wholesale shipments of Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the quarter were down 1.4% compared to last year.
First quarter shipments finished near the low end of our expected range of 79 000 to 84 000 motorcycles as we manage supply in line with lower-than-expected retail sales.
During the quarter the mix of Touring motorcycles increased 3.9 percentage points from the prior year as Rushmore models continued to be in high demand.
Also during the quarter the shipment mix of our Street and Sportster category was up 2.8 percentage points reflecting our shipments of Street motorcycles in the quarter.
Q1 2015 international shipments as a percent of total were 28.8%.
We continue to believe international retail sales will grow at a faster rate than domestic retail sales over the next few years.
On slide 18 you'll see revenue from the motorcycle and related products segment was down in the first quarter driven by unfavorable currency exchange and a 1.4% decrease in motorcycle shipments.
During the quarter the average motorcycle revenue per unit decreased $405 from the year-ago quarter behind unfavorable currency exchange partially offset by higher pricing.
On average our key currencies were weaker against the U.S.
dollar by approximately 14% compared to Q1 2014.
During the quarter we took an off-model year price increase of 1.2% in Europe to help mitigate the impact of unfavorable foreign currency exchange in that region.
Parts and accessory revenue was down 7.2% in the first quarter primarily driven by unfavorable currency exchange.
General merchandise revenue was up 3.6% in the quarter.
On slide 19 you'll see gross margin in the quarter was 39.1% which was 1.4 percentage points higher than last year.
Gross margin performed very well with price mix raw materials and manufacturing all being favorable during the quarter partially offsetting unfavorable volume and foreign currency exchange.
During the quarter overall mix was a benefit of $9.1 million largely driven by a rich sales mix of parts and accessories and general merchandise.
As expected motorcycle family mix had an unfavorable impact on margin driven by higher Street shipments.
The mix of models within families was also slightly unfavorable to prior year.
Foreign currency exchange was $39.5 million unfavorable for the first quarter.
This was driven by the significant weakening of our key foreign currencies within the quarter and on a year-over-year basis.
The euro yen Brazilian real and Australian dollar devalued an average of 8% from the beginning to the end of the quarter and were 14% weaker compared to the prior-year quarter.
This resulted in an unfavorable revenue impact of approximately 3.5% and an unfavorable revaluation of foreign-denominated assets on the balance sheet.
We are very pleased with our Q1 2015 gross margin percent growth.
The record Q1 gross margin performance evidences that the underlying margin structure of the company is very strong.
We remain focused on driving efficiencies throughout our operations.
On slide 20 operating margin as a percent of revenue for the first quarter was 22.9% up 0.8 percentage points compared to last year's first quarter.
Operating income of $345.5 million was down $2.2 million versus the prior year driven by slightly unfavorable gross margin dollars and relatively flat SG&amp;A spending.
We were very pleased with our ability to leverage both our gross margin and operating margin as a percent of revenue in the first quarter of 2015.
Going forward we remain intensely focused on a cost structure that will enable growth and continuous improvement to drive our business to be stronger more flexible and more profitable.
Now moving on to our Financial Services segment on slide 21.
In the first quarter HDFS's operating profits increased $1.5 million or 2.3% compared to last year.
The primary factors impacting first quarter results were: first net interest income was favorable to prior year by $4.4 million driven by higher receivables partially offset by lower yields on receivables due to increased competition.
Second the provision for retail credit losses was unfavorable to prior year by $5.4 million due to higher retail credit losses and an increase in the reserve rate.
Finally HDFS had a strong increase in insurance and credit card licensing revenue during the first quarter.
We were very pleased with the performance of the Financial Services business.
The business remained very profitable with industry-leading returns.
Now let's take a look at HDFS's operations on slide 22.
During the first quarter HDFS's retail motorcycle loan originations increased 3.2% or $19.3 million compared to the same period last year.
The increase was primarily driven by a 1.3 percentage point increase in retail financing market share for the first quarter compared to last year and a higher average amount financed per motor cycle.
Finance receivables outstanding increased 6.6% compared to a year ago driven by growth in both the retail and wholesale portfolios.
We believe the overall loan portfolio was solid comprised of profitable loans funded in the prime and subprime segments.
In Q1 2015 approximately 80% of our new motorcycle loan originations were prime.
Moving onto credit performance on slide 23.
The 30-day delinquency rate for retail motorcycle loans at March 31 was 2.64% or two basis points lower than the same period last year.
Delinquency rates across the portfolio continue to perform at record low levels.
Annual retail credit losses increased by 23 basis points to 1.56% compared to last year's first quarter driven by modestly higher credit losses in line with increased subprime originations in recent years as well as changing consumer behavior.
During the first quarter HDFS continued to maintain a strong liquidity position delivered solid credit performance and contributed strong profitability.
HDFS remains focused on enabling sales of Harley-Davidson motorcycles while providing attractive return to Harley-Davidson Inc.
Now let's take a look at cash and liquidity on slide 24.
You will see at the end of the quarter we had $1.23 billion of cash and marketable securities.
In addition we had $1.88 billion of available liquidity through bank credit and conduit facilities.
We currently have and intend to continue to maintain a minimum of 12 months of projected liquidity needs in cash and/or committed credit facilities.
During the first quarter we successfully completed a $700 million asset-backed securitization transaction with a weighted average interest rate of 1.19%.
We also completed a $600-million five-year medium term note offering with a coupon of 2.15%.
Additionally in the first quarter HDFS paid a $100 million dividend to HD Inc.
We further demonstrated our efforts to return value to our shareholders by repurchasing 2.9 million shares of Harley-Davidson stock for $182.5 million during the quarter.
Returning values to our shareholders is a top priority.
We will continue to evaluate opportunities to enhance value for our shareholders through increasing dividends and repurchasing shares.
Now I'll review the remaining Harley-Davidson Inc.
financials on slide 25.
I'd like to highlight two items.
First with regards to operating cash flow the company generated operating cash of $174.7 million in the first quarter.
Operating cash flow was down $28.9 million from last year driven by higher working capital and higher wholesale finance originations.
And second first quarter tax rate was 34.4% compared to 35.0% in a year-ago period.
On slide 26 you'll see our overall expectations for 2015.
In 2015 we now expect to ship 276 000 to 281 000 motorcycles on a worldwide basis up approximately 2% to 4% from 2014 shipments but approximately 6 000 fewer motorcycles than prior guidance.
We believe it is prudent to adjust our plan at this time given the increased aggressive price discounting that is occurring in the U.S.
market.
We believe the underlying worldwide demand fundamentals for Harley-Davidson motorcycles remain strong despite the aggressive competitive discounting that is occurring.
We are committed to protecting our premium brand and will keep our focus on the long-term sustainability of our business.
During the second quarter we expect to ship 83 000 to 88 000 motorcycles which is down approximately 5% to 10% compared to last year's second quarter shipments.
For 2015 we continue to believe operating margin for the motorcycle segment will be between 18% and 19% compared to 18.0% in 2014.
In 2015 we expect gross margin will be flat to up modestly compared to 2014 impacted by both puts and takes.
On the positive side we expect favorable impact from motorcycle pricing and strong productivity gains.
On the negative side we expect gross margin will be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency exchange increased pension expense and unfavorable mix.
To dimensionalize the foreign currency exchange risk if currencies held at yesterday's exchange rates for the remainder of 2015 our full-year motorcycle segment revenue would be adversely impacted by approximately 4.25% one percentage point worse than we anticipated on our January call as currencies continued to devalue during the quarter.
Taking into account our natural hedges and the fact that we have a significant portion of the year hedged we would expect about half of the unfavorable revenue dollar impact to translate into lower gross margin for the full year.
Looking forward to the second quarter we expect foreign currency exchange impact to be considerably worse than the first quarter's $39.5 million reduction.
Assuming yesterday's exchange rates hold for the entire quarter we would expect second quarter revenue to be adversely impacted by approximately 5% with approximately 60% of the revenue decline adversely impacting second quarter's gross margin dollars.
We believe second quarter gross margin will be down approximately 2.5 percentage points versus last year's gross margin percent driven by unfavorable currency lower production as we adjust to lower shipment expectations and unfavorable mix during the quarter compared to last year.
Looking at SG&amp;A we now expect spending to be flat to down in 2015 as we work to mitigate the adverse impact of lower revenues.
In addition we continue to expect that SG&amp;A will decline as a percent of revenue.
For HDFS we can – we expect operating income will be down modestly in 2015 compared to 2014 as a result of higher credit losses and tightening net interest margins due to increasing competition and rising borrowing costs.
Capital expenditures in 2015 are expected to be between $240 million and $260 million as we increase investment in product development focused on bringing exciting new products to market and as we continue to invest in our systems infrastructure.
Finally we expect our full year 2015 effective tax rate will be approximately 35.5% which reflects the absence of the R&amp;D tax credit in 2015.
So looking back on the quarter while we are facing significant price discounting in the U.S.
we are pleased with our key accomplishments during the quarter.
We successfully increased gross and operating margin percent continued to grow outreach in excess of two times our core customer growth in the U.S.
expanded distribution of Street into many new international markets expanded our international dealer network and delivered shareholder value through the repurchase of $183 million in company shares.
For the remainder of 2015 we will continue to position the company for long-term success by remaining focused on executing our growth strategies and delivering strong margins strong returns and value to our shareholders.
Thank you for your continued confidence and investment in Harley-Davidson.
And now let's take your questions.
Your first question comes from the line of Craig Kennison from Baird.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Keith best wishes from all of us at Baird.
First question here and I'll leave it at one is on the buyback.
I know you've worked very hard to rebuild the balance sheet.
But with the stock under pressure would you consider adding a turn or two of leverage in order to accelerate the buyback plan that you already have in place? Hey Craig.
This is John.
We would consider that and the strategy has been to first repair our credit ratings which now we're – are sitting at two AA minuses and an A.
But that is something that we would consider as we move forward.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> And how much leverage John would you consider? Craig that's something that we wouldn't discuss at this time.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Sharon Zackfia from William Blair.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
So a question on the competitive dynamic which you mentioned last quarter as well.
I don't recall the last quarter you mentioned currency as being one of the dynamics behind the competitive discounting.
So maybe you could help us think about anytime historically where you've seen competitors use currency to their advantage and kind of the length that that's lasted and then how you assess the risk of really not responding versus the peer group.
And then secondarily just a quick question on Europe.
Just wondering if there was any negative reaction to the price increase there? Okay.
The first question Sharon is have we seen other times? In particular when you look back over about the last 15 years there's two times in which Harley-Davidson lost share largely due to competitive discounting.
That was in 2000 and 2008.
Now in 2000 by 2002 market share was back.
And we lost about three points in both cases in 2000 and 2008.
And in 2008 we lost three points of market share.
And then in 2009 we gained back 8.5 points.
So this has happened before.
We expect it to happen again.
And the way that we've managed it is the way we've always managed our great premium brand is that we're not going to jump in and respond to price discounting by discounting on our – discounting our great brand.
We're managing this for the long-term value of the brand and the company and suck industry profits out of it by lowering margin and selling non-full margin product is not the way to do it.
Again and history shows that market share will come back in a short period of time.
So we're going to continue to manage this thing for the long term and do what's right for the brand overall.
In terms of I think your third question Sharon was on Europe.
And the price increase took effect about a month ago.
It was 1.2% given the overall devaluation in Europe which is significantly more than that.
We're balancing that with a competitive set there and we have not seen any – not long enough to get a read on any impact of the price increase.
Your next question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning and Keith I'd also like to add congratulations.
It's been a pleasure working with you and I hope you enjoy your next chapter.
So just a few questions.
One is just trying to get some more granularity on the guidance reduction.
I'm just wondering is guidance cut more of a proactive move or is it more reactive to something you're seeing so far now? I mean I know you've given a lot of color about the competition and why you're doing it.
But again reactive proactive.
That would be helpful.
And then also you did give some color about this and how you're planning on offsetting the pressures of the deleveraging effect of lower unit sales and effects on gross margins.
I'm wondering if you could talk a little bit more specifically about the efficiencies that you're enjoying there to help offset some of that.
And then just finally now you're back-half-loaded pretty significantly so what gives you your confidence in that? Thank you.
Thanks Felicia.
The guidance reduction – the first question was with regards to the guidance reduction.
Is it proactive or reactive? You know we had – we'd called out in the fourth quarter that we saw the competitive discounting increase quite dramatically in the fourth quarter.
And at that time we said two-thirds of our competition had stepped it up.
We were seeing discounts up to $2 000.
Well as we move in to the first quarter we are seeing a couple things happen from what we saw in the first quarter.
Both the depths and the breadths of the discounting has increased quite significantly from the fourth quarter.
We're seeing discounts now up to $3 000 a bike.
We're also seeing our competition reprice with lower MSRPs some cases up to 25%.
And so with that to answer your question it is both reactive and proactive.
We do expect that this is more of a fundamental change.
There's excess inventory in the channel and there's a newfound money by our competition which is largely Japanese and European competitors that have seen their economics shift quite dramatically in the last three quarters so we believe that price discounting will continue for a few to several more quarters and therefore we're certainly being proactive because we're not going to discount and what we're going to is take down our volume.
We're going to continue to invest in the equity side of the business and build in the brand and the lifestyle aspects of it but we're not going to participate in discounting.
So we're lowering our volumes 6 000 units and going to continue to sell full-margin motorcycles as we move into the future.
So a little bit reactive on what we've lost in the first quarter but much more proactive on what we expect over the next couple quarters.
The next question you had asked is about the efficiencies.
So thanks for asking that don't want it to go unnoticed that we had a record gross margin in the first quarter 39.1% which was up 1.4 percentage points and that's despite a currency headwind of what amounted to 1 point 2 points of gross margin.
So we couldn't be more pleased with the underlying fundamentals of our margin structure and how things are proceeding.
A lot of that is driven in the manufacturing line item and the plants are running very well.
Continuous improvement here is an everyday thing and we continue to find ways to take costs out of the business and to drive things forward.
We talked about our pricing and our ability to price and that's driving a lot of the favorability in the quarter as well.
Your next question comes from the line of James Hardiman from Wedbush.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my call.
So if we just do the math on your numbers versus the heavyweight industry it suggests everybody else is up about 22%.
I guess first how is that possible? Presumably you've seen the MIC numbers.
I'm assuming that the vast majority of that is Japanese players.
I guess help us understand who's being the most promotional.
And I guess secondarily how that's impacting your model lineup? Is it primarily the lower-end bikes that are getting beaten up by some of this promotional activity given the types of bikes that are being discounted and are the entirety of your share losses to other manufacturers who are discounting? Thanks.
Great.
Great question.
And so in the first quarter in the quarter where weather was worse on a year-over-year basis you're right James we saw our competition up about 20%.
How is that possible? It's possible with an incredible amount of money coming into the category and lowering the average prices of motorcycles.
Again discounts up to $3 000 re-pricing MSRP that's the only way it's possible.
And yes we're seeing the share loss come predominantly to price discounters mainly the Japanese.
And again we've experienced this in the past.
We'll experience it in the future.
When you looked at what they're doing and kind of again a difference from the fourth quarter to what we're seeing now is in the fourth quarter they predominantly were discounting model – old model year products so 2014 2013 and 2012's.
Now we're seeing a migration to discounting of more current model year product again leading us to believe that this is going to be a few quarters out that it will continue.
We are seeing the discounting across everything.
And it's not only the categories which we compete in which are our Touring and Cruiser segments but also we're seeing it in performance bikes we're seeing it in dual and we're seeing it in standard.
So it is pretty pervasive.
When you look at where it's hitting the hardest in terms of Harley-Davidson that would be in the large cruiser segment.
And again to give an example of dimensionalize it if you look at the large cruiser segment where we have our Softails Dynas and V-Rods competing the competition grew that segment about 70% in the first quarter.
And again that doesn't happen in a mature category without a shock to it.
And that is the favorability that they are receiving on foreign exchange being spent in that way.
As a reminder limit your questions to one question.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Conder from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
First of all Keith thank you for everything contributing to the company and best of wishes on your retirement Sir.
John just to follow on to the previous question.
As you said we've seen this discounting in the past.
And Harley has rebounded from it.
From what we hear from the dealers though also it would appear that within the Custom category and especially the Sportster category it's a matter of those products being a little longer in the tooth.
You guys have done a lot of innovation obviously in the touring with the Street.
But you can't do everything at once.
But it would seem that the Sportster and the Custom are little long in the tooth.
Could the combination of that and the discounting be the root of the issue here? And then again maybe as you guys bring innovation as you've done in the past that could help turn the tide here.
Tim the root of the issue is the discounting.
We're always focused on product.
We got a great product lineup over the next several years.
And we're going to continue to execute it.
But what we're seeing in the near term is an incredible amount of money coming in and reducing prices in the short term.
And again we have been through this before our brand and our brand power will get through it again and it is all about the discounting.
Your next question comes from the line of Patrick Archambault from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
I hate to beat a dead horse on the products side but I also have some questions just following up on that.
Really two specifically – I should know this but I don't.
The Japanese competitors do they manufacture at all in the United States or is this entirely kind of a transactional benefit that they're getting from importing bikes? And my follow-up question is is there also a new product angle on this? I feel like there have been some refreshes at the competition Honda and Yamaha recently.
Is that correct and is that having an impact as well? Thanks Patrick.
There is no manufacturing in the U.S.
by the Japanese or our European competitors.
In terms of new products there are some new products out there but that's not the driver.
The driver is clearly the discounting that's going on.
There's no significant new products from certainly our Japanese or our European competitors that are driving market share.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Badishkanian.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> So just a question for Matt.
I'm just wondering if there is any changes in terms of the near-term or long-term strategy that you plan to implement once at the helm.
Harley-Davidson Motor Company</span></strong> Yeah.
Thanks for the question.
As I mentioned one of the great things that we have in the company is a very clear and compelling strategy and whole organization is focused on executing as John has pointed out.
So clearly we have some headwinds in the business that we're going to have to deal with and that will bring more focus and energy to the areas where we can best impact that but as far as the strategy and our direction we're doubling down and accelerating on it.
Your next question comes from the line of Joseph Spak from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
The first question would just be can you just provide a little bit more color on what gives you confidence for that big implied ramp in the back half of the year on the shipments? And then the second and related to some of the challenges you faced earlier one of the things we've picked up on is a big discrepancy between some of those dealers in the north and dealers in the south and the dealers in the south actually I think reported some pretty decent performance.
So I'm wondering if there's a product mix issue there versus the competition where some of those some of your product weighed a little bit more in the south that caused you to lose share.
And as the northern weather warms up we're going to see any of this abate.
Thanks Joe.
So the shipment ramp in the second quarter so let's kind of run through where we're at.
Where shipments were down 1.4% in the first quarter our guidance for 83 000 to 88 000 motorcycles in the second quarter is down 5% to 10%.
So if you work that math out you're down about 3% to 6% in the first half which has an implied growth in the back half of about 16% on average.
So we are backloading the second half the reason being is all of the basically the 6 000 units are coming out we're taking out in the second quarter another opportunity to exercise our flexible manufacturing.
If you remember a year ago in the second quarter weather was very difficult and we ended up with higher inventories than we had wanted at the end of the second quarter.
And we fixed that in the third quarter.
And at this point we will bring inventories down in the second quarter.
So taking the $6 000 guidance reduction out in the second quarter and fixing inventories or bringing inventories where they should be at the end of the second quarter requires us to have more shipments in the back half.
We feel very comfortable with that split.
And again as we've always said and we've certainly demonstrated we're going to aggressively manage supply in line with demand and make sure that the marketplace is clean as we move forward.
The second question that you had Joe is with regards to the north and the south and weather and so on and so forth if you look at – the overall weather from the weather services was pretty even on a year-over-year basis both in terms of average temperature and precipitation.
But when you look at it this winter was a harder first quarter than last year because of the timing of when the weather hit and certainly the excess of snowfall in the northeast.
We have seven sales region and of those seven three of them were down considerably.
That represent about 40% of our volume and the Northeast being down the most which was down double digits.
Now in the areas that didn't have the weather issues sales were very strong and we feel great about where we're at.
And that was led by the West which was up double digits.
And that's a second year in a row that the first quarter was up over double digits in the West.
So again it was clearly a weather issue.
It was not a product or mix or the inventories that we had in those markets or uneven competition.
It was clearly the weather.
Your next question comes from the line of Gerrick Johnson from BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning.
I have two questions.
First on FX.
You mentioned there was a $35.5 million net impact to gross margin.
But could you explain what happened to the top line? And then also if there might have been a positive to cost of goods sold from production in say Brazil India sourcing in Japan? And secondarily when you do talk about competitive pricing it seems like you're only referring to the foreign competitors.
But are you also talking about Indian they had a $1 000 off if you traded in a Harley.
Do you think you're seeing some impact from that? Because I honestly think you'd probably see more of an impact from Indian as opposed to the Japanese just my two cents.
Thanks Gerrick.
So the first question was to expound upon a little bit more on the currency in the quarter.
So what we had at the top line our revenue was impacted by $53.8 million.
And that was that 14% devaluation which is the average exchange rates between the first quarter of this year versus last year.
And so with revenue down $53.8 million which is equivalent to 3.5% we did have a pickup in cost of goods sold of $14.3 million.
And that was a result of the natural hedges that we have.
So some of our parts that we make motorcycles in the United States would come from foreign markets.
And so there's a natural hedge there and then also financial hedges that we had.
But those two gains were largely offset by the revaluation of our assets.
So we have to look and we mark our assets from the beginning of the quarter to the end of the quarter.
There was an 8% devaluation within the quarter and that generated a significant loss on the revaluation of those assets.
Now that's more of a one-time loss and then will reverse itself when the currencies come back but that minimized the impact of those hedges.
Therefore that drove the $39.5 million hit to gross margin which equated to one point two points of gross margin and about $0.10 of earnings per share.
The other question that you had asked is with regards to competitive pricing.
Yes.
We're well aware that Indian is discounting a fair amount as well.
Most of the conversations that we've had has been currency-driven discounting.
But all of our competitors or most every competitor is discounting including Indian and they're at probably similar levels to the Japanese in a lot of respects.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Jonas from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Hey everybody.
So we get the message loud and clear that you're not going to keep up with the discounting.
You're going to protect the brand for the long term.
That's great.
But I think you also alluded to doing some other things with the ownership experience or perhaps some other non-discounting items that could help continued engagement and give your rider community reasons not to switch because it seems like these discounts are frankly working really well.
So could you elaborate on what those things are? What those other non-price efforts are and how much they could be a burden near term on results this year? Thanks.
Thank you Adam.
What we think the burden is is 6 000 units and that's what we're taking out of our guidance.
We are doing things.
In the first half we've stepped up some of our advertising.
We've got a young adult campaign going on and a competitive core customer campaign going on; and also to work to mitigate it we've taken pricing action in Europe and you're looking at actions in Canada as well.
So again we're going to continue to do what has made our brand great in the past and continue to invest in that brand but not tear it down by discounting it.
Your next question comes from the line of Rod Lache from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
I had two questions.
One is there anything specific that you can point to on the manufacturing side that drove that $19 million positive and should that continue? Any additional commentary there? And then secondly if the currencies stay where they are you said that would be about a 4.25% impact on revenues so about $240 million headwind on the motorcycle business.
And presumably that would be where the earnings impact would be if you didn't have these hedges.
You indicated about a 50% pass through so $120 million.
But it sounds like based on your guidance you're seeing about $95 million in the first half which leaves only about $25 million in the back half.
I'm wondering whether I'm misinterpreting what you're saying or whether that's correct.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay Rod the first question is is the manufacturing is there anything in particular? Again as I had mentioned the ongoing continuous improvement the way we're operating the plants is all going very well.
There is a one-time that we're lapping in our manufacturing expense and that's the Street start-up costs.
If you will remember a year ago we had a fair amount of start-up cost with Street.
That was about $4.7 million $5 million.
And so we are lapping that.
So that would provide some of that benefit that we saw in manufacturing.
But that's the core level of profitability and we're just lapping that piece of it.
On the second question that you had is with regards to our full-year guidance in terms of revenue 4.25%.
You had used the number of $240 million.
We won't comment on that but 50% of it will fall down and hit gross margin in an adverse fashion.
We'll pick up some of that in SG&amp;A.
The question that you asked is with regards to the magnitude of I guess the first half revenue hit and gross margin hit versus the back half.
And the worst quarter that we're going to have if everything again remains constant is the second quarter.
And that's because a year ago our foreign currencies were the strongest in the second quarter and then we saw late in the third quarter that the currency started to devalue so we'll be lapping that as we get toward the end of the year.
So yes you're right the biggest magnitude of impact of foreign currency will be in the first half of the year and more specifically in the second quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of David MacGregor from Longbow Research.
Your line is open.
Yes thanks for taking my questions.
Just couple questions on the international side of the business.
Can you just talk a little bit about dealer inventories internationally and where those stand? And it sounds as though the price competition might be global but if you could just address that and confirm that if that's accurate? And then just finally on the finance business how much international is in your finance portfolio? And are there any concerns that we should have with respect to change in the threshold at which you're granting credit? Thanks David.
The first question is international dealer inventory have been pretty consistent on a year-over-year basis.
But international is on a different inventory system.
Our dealers pull – when they sell one they pull one.
We call it pipeline.
So inventory is more company-owned internationally than dealer-owned.
And we have very little change in dealer inventories from period to period just because of the way that we supply our dealer network.
And any inventories would be more company-owned inventories as they fluctuate up and down.
So inventories are just different than in the United States where we push the inventory out to the dealers after we manufacture them.
Got it.
Second question is price competition global.
No we're not seeing global price competition.
Our competitors are largely Japanese and European.
They're certainly realizing a strong benefit when they sell in the United States.
But otherwise we're not seeing any huge price competition outside of Brazil in our foreign markets.
The final question was is the percent of revenue at HDFS should you be concerned with regards to that and the currency impact on HDFS.
The answer is no.
HDFS is predominantly in the United States and Canada.
They do help with arrangements around the world but the vast majority of revenue is here in North America.
Your next question comes from the line of James Hardiman from Wedbush.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks for taking a quick follow-up here.
So loved the commentary on the regional disparities in demand.
But almost seemed to suggest with Northeast way down West Coast way up that there's an opportunity here in the second quarter and beyond that things could get a little bit better.
I guess are you thinking about things that way? It wouldn't seem as such given the reduced guidance or do you think that some of these other offsets are only going to get worse like do you think that from a competitive perspective the second quarter is actually going to be a little bit worse than the first quarter? Thanks.
Thanks James.
We are very confident in our shipment guidance of 276 000 motorcycles to 281 000 motorcycles.
We've talked about weather before.
If it happens early in the season we believe it's more timing.
And if spring doesn't happen or gets pushed out we do believe there's a larger impact on a year-over-year basis.
And at this point on the weather we would believe more timing.
The 6 000 units that we took out are driven by the competitive discounting that we're seeing in the United States.
Internationally we feel very good about our business there.
And in United States we're under pressure from the price discounting and we're dealing with that by taking 6 000 units out and tightening up our inventories here a little bit.
But we feel very good about our 2% to 4% shipment growth as we move forward.
And our last question comes from the line of Gerrick Johnson from BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Hey thanks for the follow-up.
Do you feel you were negatively impacted in the quarter by not having any new mid-year models like you did last year and also did you ship any Streets to Riding Academy this quarter? To start with the second question first is no.
Predominantly the dealer fill for Rider Academy happened in the first and the second quarter of last year.
It was about 2 200 units.
There could be a couple replacement units going into the market now but it was largely a one-time dealer fill and that was about 600 units in the first quarter and 1 600 units in the second quarter.
The second is in terms of model year launches from time to time we've come out with a mid-model year; I think the last couple years we have.
And it's all part of the broader plan on product development.
We've got that sketched out for the next five years so we do not intend to have a product in this quarter.
And we do not believe it had a dramatic impact on our volumes in the first quarter.
Thank you John and thank you everyone for your time this morning.
Thanks everyone for your time this morning.
The audio recording and slides from today's call will be available at harley-davidson.com.
The audio can also be accessed until May 5 by calling 404-537-3406 or 855-859-2056 in the U.S.
The pin number is 11254202#.
We appreciate your investment in Harley-Davidson.
If you have any questions please contact Investor Relations at 414-343-8002.
Thanks.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Laurel and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Harley-Davidson second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to Amy Giuffre Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Laurel and good morning everyone.
You can access the slides supporting this call on Harley-Davidson.com.
Click About Harley-Davidson at the bottom of the home page then Investor Relations and Events and Presentations.
Our comments will include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks that could cause actual results to be materially different.
Those risks include among others matters we have noted in our latest earnings release and filings with the SEC.
Harley-Davidson disclaims any obligation to update information in this call.
This morning our CEO Matt Levatich and CFO John Olin will be hosting.
Matt let's get started.
Thanks Amy and thank you everyone for joining us on the call today.
As you know this is my first earnings call as President and CEO of Harley-Davidson but this is far from my first earnings cycle here.
As a longtime member of the Harley-Davidson team I'm not only incredibly proud of where this company has been I'm incredibly excited about where we are going.
You've all read the headlines and results in the news release this morning.
Sales shipments and earnings are in line with our expectations.
As always John will go into the detailed financials behind that in a few minutes but first I want to take a second and talk about the big picture of the quarter the environment we are in and why I'm encouraged about both our performance and our prospects.
In April we acknowledged the environment was going to be difficult in the face of currency and discounting by competitors.
But we didn't sit on our hands we leveraged our strengths pulled together as a team and came to the table to compete and win.
The tough call in April to take down shipments was the right call and reflects our long-standing commitment to manage supply in line with demand.
The fact that we delivered shipments in line with that guidance in the second quarter while maintaining near record gross margin shows the strength and flexibility we have built on the operations side of the business.
But of equal or greater importance in my mind is our commitment to drive demand and do so in ways that are reinforcing of our premium brand.
Harley-Davidson has powerful fundamental strength and assets and we leverage some of the many competitive advantages we have like HDFS our riding academy our richly iconic brand and our great dealer network to drive demand in the quarter.
For example in the US we implemented targeted financing offers through HDFS.
And we rolled out free rider training to active and veteran military personnel through our riding academy.
The outstanding response to the riding academy program reflects its power and potential as a conduit to the sport through our brand our retail channel and through great products like the Street which we use in support of riding academy training.
We believe that taken together our actions to drive demand have had a positive impact on retail sales.
During the quarter we saw increasing momentum in the US with near double-digit growth in June's retail sales of new Harleys.
In fact it was our strongest June retail motorcycle sales in the United States since 2008.
In Europe we also stepped up our marketing efforts and saw growth in new motorcycle sales return in June.
At the same time sales of new Harleys in the Asia-Pacific region were up strongly in the quarter driven in part by the great reception to our Street motorcycles in particular in China and India.
In fact the Harley-Davidson Street 750 was the best-selling new Harley ever in the region when it comes to first-year sales.
Street has also been very successful in bringing new riders into the Harley-Davidson brand both in the US and internationally.
In its initial year alone 7 out of 10 Harley-Davidson Street motorcycles in the United States - those customers were new to the brand.
In EMEA it was 9 out of 10.
And in the India nearly all Street customers were new to our brand.
We believe this success underscores the large untapped potential in our business not to mention what happens when we deliver for customers with great products like Street and we will continue to aggressively tap that potential.
During the second quarter we also demonstrated our commitment to shareholder returns when we announced our intent to leverage the current environment and our strong balance sheet to increase share repurchases.
This decision was driven by what we believe to be a favorable credit environment and our current share price which we believe is inordinately influenced by near-term headwinds including currency exchange rates.
On the operations side we plan to close on the previously announced transaction with our Canadian distributor in early August and transition to direct distribution in Canada.
We have a strong team in place and look forward to all the opportunities and efficiencies we expect to create in that market.
Looking ahead we are excited about the 2016 model year motorcycle launch and bringing our global dealer network together for our annual dealer meeting in late August.
The dealer meeting is always a highlight of my year because it's a time when we come together align and share in the mutual pride of being in Harley-Davidson motorcycle business and inspire and motivate the best dealers in the industry.
Before I turn it over to John I want to reiterate how proud I am of this company this team and all the work that's being done at Harley-Davidson each and every day.
Every quarter and every year will have challenges but we can probably all agree that second quarter retail numbers were not as good as we'd all like.
We're energized by the challenges and the competition.
Headwinds like these are nothing we haven't seen before in our 112 years we see them as catalysts for getting stronger and we are.
Make no mistake driving demand and growing the business are top priorities for all of us at Harley-Davidson.
Even as we address the near-term market conditions our eyes and energy are clearly focused on our strategies for growth and continued industry leadership long-term.
These strategies include rolling out great new products growing sales to US outreach customers faster than to core bringing increasing numbers of new customers into the brand internationally and taking the Harley-Davidson retail experience to new heights all in ways aimed to make Harley-Davidson the most customer-led company in the world.
We are confident in the strength of our business our strategies and our team.
We are strong in our leadership position.
We're managing the business for the long term and we're here to win.
With that I'll turn it over to John.
Thanks Matt.
Today I'll provide additional insight around our financial results found in the press release and slides.
The summary of our second quarter financial results starts on slide 10.
Results were in line with our expectations given lower shipments in the quarter following the shipment guidance reduction we took in April.
During the quarter revenue was $1.82 billion net income was $299.8 million and diluted earnings per share were $1.44 all down on lower shipments and ongoing pressure from unfavorable currency exchange.
As expected operating income from the motorcycle segment was down 19.6% compared to last year's second quarter.
Motorcycle segment operating performance continues to be very strong when considering the lower volumes and unfavorable currency impact.
The motorcycle business operating margin was down 2.7 percentage points driven by higher SG&amp;A spending on lower revenues while gross margin remained very strong at 39.2%.
At HDFS operating income was up 10.0% year-over-year.
Despite the challenging conditions we continue to focus on delivering strong margins and strong returns over the long term.
Now let's take a closer look at Q2 performance starting with retail sales on slide 11.
As we continued to face a very challenging retail environment in many markets worldwide retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles were down 1.4% in the second quarter.
In the US retail sales were down 0.7% as we continued to experience pressure from foreign exchange driven discounting by other brands and as we lapped last year's strong Rushmore sales.
Internationally retail sales were mainly impacted by new low-priced models from competitors in Europe currency driven volume declines in markets where we sell in non-local currencies and challenging economic conditions in some markets.
As we exited the second quarter our business remains under pressure from increased competitive activity including aggressive price discounting in the US enabled by the dramatic shift in world currencies.
We have taken action around the world in a manner which will reinforce our brand premium.
We are very pleased that our market actions help drive very strong sales results in the month of June.
We remain confident in our worldwide motorcycle shipment guidance of up 2% to 4% for the full year.
We expect second half retail sales growth to be driven by our continued demand driving market actions that we've initiated in various world markets the continued worldwide rollout of our Street motorcycles ongoing international dealer expansion the introduction of our 2016 model year motorcycles in late August and our ongoing brand strength.
We remain focused on delivering the Harley-Davidson customer experience to riders around the world.
We expect to grow the appeal of the Harley-Davidson brand expand international sales and increase sales to outreach customers in the US.
We are confident in our business and the great opportunities that lie ahead.
Let's take a look at the US market on slide 12.
Second quarter retail sales were down 0.7% in the US.
Excluding the fleet of Street motorcycles for rider training registered by dealers during last year's second quarter sales would have been up 2.1% year-over-year.
We believe the factors that were underlying US retail sales results during the quarter were first as expected we lapped the very enthusiastic reception to the initial Rushmore launch.
Q2 2014 retail sales of touring models were up a very strong 31% compared to the prior year a tough year-over-year comparison for Q2 2015.
Second we experienced continued pressure from significant price discounting by most of the competition.
Partially offsetting these challenges we continued to experience success in our latest Rushmore models launched last August and with sales of our Street motorcycles.
Street motorcycle sales continued to drive our performance in small cruisers which grew double digits year-over-year.
To counter the competitive environment in the US market we have initiated a three-pronged market action plan which includes lifestyle and brand advertising and marketing targeted finance offers and leveraging HD's other competitive advantages such as riding academy and our dealer network.
The bulk of these market driving actions were introduced in late May through mid-June.
While it is still early we believe these activities are having a positive impact on our retail sales.
During the quarter we saw increased momentum resulting in near double-digit growth in June's retail sales.
Turning to market share.
During the quarter US industry grew at 6.8%.
We had a very strong market leadership share of 47.5% and believe the industry's robust growth during the quarter bodes well for motorcycling.
However our Q2 market share was down 2.8 percentage points versus prior year.
While we anticipated some level of share loss following the 13.4 points of market share gains in recent years our market share over the last three quarters was more severely impacted than we had expected as a result of increased price discounting by the competition and inclusion of auto cycles in the industry numbers.
We are pleased to see a moderation in market share loss from the first quarter decline of 4.7 percentage points and believe the improvement is driven by strong brand strategy and recent market share actions to drive demand in this tough competitive environment.
This is not the first time we’ve experienced period of extreme discounting by competitors and likely it won't be the last.
However we will protect our brand premium.
We will not take a short-term view and compete with brand damaging discounting nor will we ship out of balance with retail demand.
We continue to manage the Harley-Davidson brand for the long term.
At the end of the second quarter US retail sales was down approximately 1600 motorcycles on a year-over-year basis.
John that was retail inventory.
US retail inventory was down approximately 1600 motorcycles on a year-over-year basis.
Excluding incremental retail dealer fill of Street motorcycles Q2 retail inventory was down significantly as expected.
We were very pleased with inventory levels at the end of Q2.
This reflects the benefits of our flexible manufacturing capability and our commitment to manage supply in line with demand.
On slide 13 you'll see retail sales in our international markets were down 2.7% in the second quarter.
We initiated market actions to counter increased competitive activities and weak economic trends in certain international markets.
Similar to the US we initiated these activities in mid-to-late second quarter and we were very encouraged by June's retail sales results.
In the EMEA region retail sales were down as the region experienced the impact of several low-price models introduced by competitive brands and lapped strong year-ago retail sales of 7.0%.
In addition we experienced currency driven volume declines in markets where we sell our motorcycles to dealers in non-local currencies such as in Russia.
Year-to-date Europe market share was 10.2% down 1.9 percentage points behind the impact of low-priced models introduced by the competition in the performance and standard segments market segments where Harley-Davidson's motorcycles do not compete.
In the Asia-Pacific region retail sales were up 16.6% in the quarter.
The region experienced growth in all major markets and in particular in our emerging markets led by India and China.
Driving these results is the Street motorcycle which launched in many Asia-Pacific markets in the first half of 2015.
Street makes entry into the Harley-Davidson brand more attainable for riders around the world and the early results are very exciting.
Retail sales in Japan were up and they were impacted by the restructuring of distribution in that market including a new pipeline distribution process and rationalizing the dealer network in order to improve the customer experience.
Latin America region retail sales were down modestly in the quarter as a result of soft retail sales in Brazil largely offset by strong growth in Mexico.
Retail sales in Brazil continue to be impacted by a slowing economy consumer uncertainty and very aggressive price competition.
Finally retail sales in Canada were down behind a highly competitive environment coinciding with the transition of the business from a distributor to direct distribution.
While we remain cautious in the near-term outlook given the economic challenges in some international markets we are confident in our current market efforts and remain focused on the long-term growth strategy.
Despite the volatility in global retail sales we believe we can continue to realize international growth by prudently expanding our distribution network building our brand experience across the world and delivering exceptional products that inspire riders.
On slide 14 you will see wholesale motorcycle shipments in the quarter were down 7.6% compared to last year and within our expected range of 83 000 to 88 000 motorcycles.
The overall shipment mix reflects higher concentration of Street as we continue the global rollout of these models.
As we exited Q2 2015 we believe US retail inventories in the dealer network were at appropriate levels.
Q2 2015 international shipments were 35.3% of total shipments.
We continue to believe international retail sales will grow at a faster rate than domestic retail sales over the next few years.
On slide 15 you will see revenue for the motorcycle segment was down in Q2 compared to last year driven by 7.6% lower motorcycle shipments and unfavorable currency exchange which reduced revenue by approximately 4.6%.
During the quarter the average motorcycle revenue per unit decreased $692 from the year ago quarter behind unfavorable currency exchange and product mix partially offset by higher pricing.
Parts and accessories revenue fell 5.4% driven by unfavorable foreign currency exchange.
General merchandise revenue was up 1.5% driven by robust international growth largely offset by unfavorable foreign currency exchange.
On slide 16 you will see gross margin in the quarter was 39.2% which was 0.3 percentage points lower than last year.
Gross margin performed very well when considering the adverse impact of foreign currency exchange and lower volumes.
During the quarter overall mix was unfavorable $16.5 million largely driven by family mix which included a higher mix of Street motorcycles and a lower mix of touring motorcycles.
Foreign currency exchange was $36.1 million unfavorable for the second quarter.
This was driven by the significant year-over-year weakening of our key foreign currencies.
Key currencies devalued an average of 19% compared to the prior-year quarter.
Our Q2 2015 gross margin as a percent of revenue exceeded our expectations as foreign currency exchange came in better-than-expected behind some strengthening of foreign currency exchange rates within the quarter and better-than-expected manufacturing productivity.
Our Q2 2015 gross margin of 39.2% is evidence of our strong underlying margin structure and flexible manufacturing capability.
We remain focused on driving efficiencies throughout our operations.
On slide 17 operating margin as a percent of revenue for the second quarter was 23.1% down 2.7 percentage points compared to last year.
SG&amp;A spending in the quarter was up on a year-over-year basis due to increased marketing investment as we address the highly competitive environment.
Also SG&amp;A expenses in the quarter included recall reserves of $16.4 million which included a voluntary recall on touring motorcycles that we incurred late in the quarter.
Going forward we remain intensely focused on a cost structure that will enable growth and continuous improvement to drive our business to be stronger more flexible and more profitable.
Now let's take a look at our financial services segment on slide 18.
HDFS is a strategic competitive advantage for Harley-Davidson.
It enables wholesale and retail sales of the Harley-Davidson motorcycles and delivers attractive returns for the company.
During the quarter HDFS' operating profit increased 10.0% compared to last year.
Net interest income was favorable to prior year driven by higher receivables partially offset by lower yields on receivables due to increased competition.
Also HDFS had increase in insurance and credit card licensing revenue during the second quarter.
We are very pleased with the performance of the financial services business.
The business continued to be very profitable with industry-leading returns.
HDFS' second quarter operations are summarized on slide 19.
HDFS' retail motorcycle loan originations increased 7.0% compared to last year's second quarter primarily driven by a 6.8 percentage point increase in our US retail finance market share and higher average amount financed per motorcycle.
Finance receivables outstanding increased 5.0% compared to a year ago driven by growth in the retail portfolio.
On a year-to-date basis loan originations were comprised of approximately 80% prime loans and 20% subprime.
As a predominate lender to subprime customers these originations represent a significant amount of retail sales for the company at very attractive returns which further reinforces the competitive advantage that HDFS brings to the company.
At the end of the quarter we had $419 million of cash and cash equivalents at HDFS.
In addition HDFS had $1.84 billion of available liquidity through bank credit and conduit facilities.
Finally during the second quarter we successfully completed a $500 million asset-backed securitization transaction with a weighted average interest rate of 1.16%.
Credit performance tracked very well during the quarter.
On slide 20 you will see the 30-day delinquency rate for retail motorcycle loans at June 30 2015 was 2.71% or 3 basis points higher than the same period back last year.
Delinquency rates across the portfolio continued to perform at near record low levels.
Annual credit losses increased by 11 basis points to 1.08% compared to last year second quarter driven by modestly higher credit losses in line with increased subprime originations in recent years as well as changing consumer behavior.
During the second quarter HDFS continued to maintain a strong liquidity position and contributed strong profitability.
HDFS remains focused on enabling sales of Harley-Davidson motorcycles while providing an attractive return to Harley-Davidson Inc.
The Harley-Davidson Inc.
financial results are summarized on slide 21.
I'd like to highlight that the company generated operating cash of $613.9 million in the first half of this year.
Operating cash was up $43.4 million from last year driven by lower net wholesale lending partially offset by lower net income.
The company currently has and intends to continue to maintain a minimum of 12 months of projected liquidity needs in cash and/or committed credit facilities.
Switching our focus to shareholder value on slide 22.
Returning value to our shareholders is a top priority.
You will see that during the second quarter we paid a dividend of $0.31 per share and we repurchased 2.8 million shares of Harley-Davidson stock for $164.8 million.
As we move forward we will invest to grow the business and improve overall performance and we will continue to evaluate opportunities to enhance value for our shareholders through increasing dividends and repurchasing shares.
To that end on slide 23 you will see that last month we announced our plan to add debt to the corporate balance sheet in order to enhance our share repurchase efforts and deliver additional value to our shareholders.
On June 17 we announced that we plan to incur $750 million of long-term debt with the intent to use the funds to repurchase shares of the company stock.
We expect to incur the debt in the next couple of weeks and complete the share repurchases by the end of this year.
The repurchases will be an addition to our ongoing share repurchase plan which we expect to be in line with last year's second half repurchases of 392 million.
We believe this recapitalization is a great opportunity to increase our long-term shareholders ownership in the company without an adverse impact to the long-term value of the brand or the business.
Our guidance is on slide 24.
For the full-year 2015 we continue to expect to ship 276 000 to 281 000 motorcycles.
Given our first-half results we have a challenging back half to achieve our shipment guidance.
We are confident that we're taking appropriate market actions to accelerate growth in the back half without participating in brand damaging motorcycle discounting.
During the third quarter we expect to ship 54 000 to 59 000 motorcycles which is up approximately 6.5% to 16.5% compared to last year's third quarter shipments.
For 2015 we continue to believe operating margin for the motorcycle segment will be between 18% and 19% compared to 18% in 2014.
In 2015 we now expect gross margin to be up modestly compared to 2014 impacted by both puts and takes.
On the positive side we expect favorable impact from motorcycle pricing and strong productivity gains.
On the negative side we expect gross margin to be adversely affected by unfavorable currency exchange and increased pension expense.
To dimensionalize the foreign currency exchange risk if currencies held at yesterday's exchange rates for the remainder of 2015 our full-year motorcycle segment revenue would be adversely impacted by approximately 4.25%.
Taking into account our natural hedges and the fact that we have a significant portion of the year hedged we would expect about half of the unfavorable revenue dollar impact to translate into lower gross margin for the full year reducing gross margin by approximately 0.75%.
For the third quarter assuming that currencies hold at yesterday's exchange rates we expect revenue to be adversely impacted by approximately 5% with about 40% of the unfavorable revenue dollar impact to translate into lower gross margin for the quarter reducing gross margin by approximately 1 percentage point.
We now expect SG&amp;A spending will be up modestly in 2015 both in absolute spending and as a percent of revenue due to the recall expenses and investment in marking driving activities.
For HDFS we now expect operating income to be up modestly in 2015 compared to 2014.
We continue to expect capital expenditures in 2015 to be between $240 million and $260 million as we increase investment in product development focused on bringing exciting new products to market and as we continue to invest in our systems infrastructure.
Finally we continue to expect full-year 2015 effective tax rate will be approximately 35.5% which reflects the absence of the R&amp;D tax credit in 2015.
This guidance does not include the impact of the anticipated Canadian distributor transaction.
We expect the financial impact to be dilutive in 2015 to earnings per share by approximately $0.04 behind upfront transition costs.
This impact will be realized largely in the third quarter.
So looking back on the quarter while we are facing significant competitive pressures around the world we are pleased with our key accomplishments during the second quarter.
We successfully maintained a strong gross margin percent despite lower volumes and unfavorable currency exchange implemented market driving actions which drove June retail sales expanded distribution of Street into new international markets and delivered shareholder value through the repurchase of $165 million in company shares and announced $0.75 billion recapitalization.
For the second half of 2015 we will navigate a challenging business environment.
We remain confident in our shipment guidance and the actions we are taking to support retail sales in the second half of the year.
We will continue to position the company for long-term success by remaining focused on executing our growth strategies and delivering strong margins strong returns and value to our shareholders.
Thank you for your continued confidence and investment in Harley-Davidson.
Let's take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Derrick Johnson with BMO Capital Markets.
Good morning.
I want to follow up on the comments about Street the strong percentage of Street buyers being new to the brand.
Would it mean that the cannibalization of other sportsters was lower than anticipated? I know it's hard to quantify but would these folks have bought a different brand? Would they have bought a different Harley would they have nothing at all? What other insights can you give us there? Thanks.
Thanks Derrick.
When we set out with Street we didn't believe that there would be a ton of cannibalization between our Sportsters and Street motorcycles.
They are very different motorcycles intended for a different customer and as we've seen the last year playout Derrick we believe that's the case.
You're absolutely right it's very difficult to pinpoint an absolute percent of cannibalization but we believe it's very low and some of that is evidenced by the last four quarters we have seen our small cruisers which include Sportster and Street grow well into the double digits behind Street in the United States.
Now internationally certainly most all customers coming in are new to the brand and as Matt had mentioned 9 out of 10 in Europe are new to the brand and almost all of the folks in India are new.
So we couldn't be more excited.
The rollout has gone very well internationally and is certainly providing and filling in the role that it was intended to do in the United States.
Your next question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
John you seem very confident in the business or maybe they provided you with a ton of energy drinks this morning but you are confident.
A little of both.
I was just wondering you talked in your prepared remarks about how optimistic the second half of the guidance is.
I'm wondering if you could just talk about the implied fourth quarter guidance if you take the midpoint of the third quarter and the midpoint of full year that implies unit shipments of 21% in the fourth quarter.
So seasonally that just seems high to us given the seasonality and also given the strategy of aligning shipments with demand so if you could touch upon that and just as a follow-up I was just wondering if you could help us understand the cadence of retail sales in the quarter.
I think the conventional wisdom was that retail sales were down earlier in the quarter and then ramped at the end.
So I was just wondering if you could address the cadence.
Thanks.
Thank you Felicia.
So two pieces - let's separate two pieces of the first question is retail and shipments.
So retail sales were down 1.4% in the first half and we are expecting retail sales certainly to accelerate in the back half of the year that supports our shipment guidance which is up to 2 to 4 percentage points.
But shifting to the specific question Felicia on shipments if we look at overall shipments in the first half of this year we were down 4.7% in shipments and as you look at year-to-date year to go to hit that 2% to 4% shipment growth guidance we would need our shipments to be up in the back half of 14% to 19%.
So let's start out with the half and then we'll get into the two quarters in the back half.
The reason that we're looking to ship more in the back half of the year is not really related to retail sales it's related to what happened last year.
Felicia if you remember last year we had very tough weather in the United States.
And consequently we ended up shipping in more motorcycles in the first half than retail sales warranted.
Then we spent the second half taking production and shipments out of the back half to get inventories back in line.
Consequently last year at the end of the second quarter our retail inventories were up too high and resulted in more carryover units than we would have liked.
So again our focus is always on aggressively managing supply in line with demand and making sure we're adequately supplying the market.
So what we did this year is just to reverse out what happened last year.
So we shipped in less this year than we retail in order to bring down second quarter retail inventories this year and we couldn't be happier as to where we're at.
As we had mentioned we're down 1600 units but when you adjust out the Street motorcycles inventories are down significantly in line with where we believe we need to be to have a very smooth transition into the new model year of 2016 motorcycles.
And consequently because we were down so much in last year's second half in shipments we will be coinciding [indiscernible] 14% to 19%.
What you have done is taken our shipment guidance of 54 000 to 59 000 in the third quarter and I think that overall shipments that suggested shipments will be higher in the fourth quarter and that is true.
Now when we look at the back half of those two quarters we're moving production from the first part of the year to the fourth quarter.
And the reason being is we've become very good of flexible manufacturing.
And we have matched up our production with our demand very well given the manufacturing system that we have.
But as we looked at last year that required a fair amount of down days in the fourth quarter and probably hurt efficiencies a little bit.
So what we want to do is balance out production a little bit in the back half of the year between the third and fourth quarters.
That will have a little bit of a headwind in terms of gross margin between the third quarter and the fourth quarter but on aggregate it won't have an impact.
So again we are smoothing our production a little bit that's translating into a little bit more shipments in the fourth quarter.
The second question that you asked is the cadence in second quarter retail sales.
As we mentioned in the prepared remarks we've got a three-pronged approach to addressing the competitiveness and we're addressing that in Harley-Davidson's way which is not price discounting.
We've talked about this the last time.
We will not meet discounting with discounting we will not put hangtags on our motorcycles.
That is certainly the easiest way to address some of the competitiveness we are experiencing in the United States.
So with the three-pronged approach most of those activities got into the marketplace in mid-May to mid-June.
And we've seen very strong results coming from that and so in April and May retail sales were pretty soft softer than what we saw in the first quarter.
However June we built very strong momentum and we're near double digits in the United States as well as near double digit in international markets behind the investments that we have made to close that competitive gap.
Your next questions comes from the line of Craig Kennison with Baird.
Please go ahead.
Good morning thanks for taking my question.
Just to follow up on the shipment guidance.
To what extent does it include expectations for retail to accelerate given new products you hope to announce? And then regarding inventory to what extent does inventory grow because you have additional distribution points as you have indicated you really want to hold inventory flat otherwise? Thanks Craig.
The bulk of what we're seeing in the shipment cadence and shipping more in the second half than the first half is to correct last year's shipping patterns that were disrupted by the unfavorable weather.
Clearly as we look at our production as well as our shipments we're taking into account various market activities certainly our new products that are coming out.
And so all of that is considered but the biggest driver in the splits of being down in the first half to up in the second half is really what happened last year and getting those inventories in line.
When we talk about inventory growth I would assume Craig you are referring to at the end of the year we expect and continue to expect inventory at the end of the year to be flat to up modestly.
That does take into account the various models that we have in the marketplace.
And I'm sorry thank you Amy.
That answer is with regard to the United States that we expect it to be flat to up modestly.
Internationally we do expect inventories to rise as we add new dealer points and we're continuing on a similar pattern of adding dealers that we were in previous years.
Actually in the quarter we added 11 new dealers which we're very thrilled about.
So with that internationally we will be putting more inventory to support that growth.
Your next question comes from the line of James Hardiman with Wedbush Securities.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Maybe just a quick follow-up to the last point John.
The inventory being flat to up in the US it seems like previously that was a function of just matching retail growth - so keeping turns constant.
Year-to-date you haven't grown retail at all.
So is that still how we should think about it basically the growth in inventory commensurate with the growth in retail? And I guess more broadly can you speak specifically about market trends that you are seeing obviously the Japanese are playing a role presumably India is playing a role and I think about those trends going forward which do you expect to get better and when? Does your guidance assumes that no share losses that you have seen in the first half of the year flatten out or maybe even flip into a share gain as we think about third and fourth quarters of this year? Thanks.
Thanks James.
The first question industry growth and our retail.
What we have said is that we expect flat to modestly up growth and that is tied to basically holding terms flat.
However when we look at that number one is we are expecting retail growth in the back half and we're certainly expecting to support our shipment guidance of up 2% to 4% withholding those inventories at year-end in the United States.
And we're also looking at - when we talk about emerging we're looking at forward turns and what we expect to sell into the future as well.
The second question that you had James is with regards to market trends.
Why don't we start out with the first half? We have had a tough half largely driven by the price discounting but overall market share was down 3.5 percentage points.
The bulk of that share loss is due to price competition in the marketplace.
The second biggest driver of the market share loss in the first half was the inclusion of auto cycles in the motorcycle industry numbers and these are a vehicle that's included that is very car-like.
It's got side-by-side seating gas pedal and brakes steering wheel very large front end.
It just happens to have a single wheel in the back.
States are having trouble figuring out what it is in terms of is it a motorcycle is it registrable is it an autocycle? But in any event we do not believe that it competes directly with traditional motorcycles but it is having a large impact on our overall market share because we are 50% of the market.
So those are the two largest drivers of market share losses.
As we move forward we expect certainly our share losses to mitigate.
We saw that in the quarter.
If you look within the quarter we kind of talked about the retail sales cadence within the quarter which improved very much in the previous question but market share as well improved significantly in the quarter as we got some of our market response actions out.
So as we move forward we would expect market share's to temper especially in the fourth quarter when we start to lap the initial impact of the price discounting.
Your next question comes from the line of Sharon Zackfia with William Blair.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
A couple questions.
John I apologize if I missed this but did you talk about gross margin cadence in the back half of the year? Then secondarily can you give us any insight on what you were thinking of in terms of pricing actions with model year 2016? Thanks Sharon.
With regards to gross margin when we look at overall headwinds in terms of gross margin for the third quarter we certainly have a fair amount coming in terms of currency and we do expect it to be a very tough quarter in currency before we start to see some of a year-over-year impact in the fourth quarter.
We would expect revenues to be down 5% and the impact on gross margin in the third quarter to be about one full percentage point headwind.
And the other piece that we mentioned is when we were talking about shipment and production cadence we're moving more production into the fourth quarter and that will have an impact of moving a little bit of gross margin out of the previous quarters into the fourth quarter so that will provide a little bit of a headwind in terms of gross margin in the third quarter as well.
The second question is with regards to pricing action.
Pricing as well as seeing our new product you're going to have to wait until August 24 which is a Monday.
We couldn't be more excited to roll out our new products and at that time we will have the new pricing for those products but we don't provide that prior to sharing that with our dealer network.
So along with the new products we are going to have to wait on that one.
Your next question comes from the line of Patrick Archambault with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
It's actually Dave Tamberrino on for Pat.
I will just ask one here on balance sheet optionality.
As we think about where you're going to finish 2015 you'll have about half a turn in gross debt and about 0.2 turns in net debt at least on our forecast.
As we think about it what is the range or level that you would be comfortable with in terms of additional debt on the company going forward? Dave you are speaking with regards to the motorcycle segment.
We feel very good about the action that we just took and putting the $750 million debt on there.
As we looked at that amount we looked at certainly making sure that we didn't do anything to affect the long-term business or brand and came out at $0.75 billion at this point.
We are not looking to take on any more and we will be focused on executing that in the back half of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Badishkanian with Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Great thank you.
Since you brought up June trends which were very favorable I'm guessing that July momentum didn't drop off in a very significant way? And then the second question is you mentioned three initiatives and which do you think had the biggest impact on the June pickup in retail sales? You know we exited the quarter with good momentum and we're very pleased with that.
We are reporting results as of the end of the second quarter and we're not going to go beyond that.
But again what we saw in the first quarter and the change and shift in momentum we feel very good about the overall second half.
The second question is with regards to what we had talked about in addressing some of the competitive issues.
We've got a three-pronged approach and you can see most notably in there is brand damaging discounting is not a part of it.
So we're very pleased with what we've got.
It's not as easy it's not as quick.
We've got to be a lot more creative in how we do it and the results are very strong.
But when we look at the various pieces they all work in concert with each other.
When you look at the lifestyle and brand advertising that's an investment in the future and an investment in the brand in the brand premium.
Hard to measure what that does on a day-to-day basis.
The second piece of it is targeted finance offers.
That is trying to close some of that competitive gap that we have in the marketplace.
No we haven't talked much about discounting but it certainly has not improved on a quarter-over-quarter business.
It remains consistent to a little bit increased.
We are seeing a couple more competitors and we're also seeing the level go up a little bit now the top discount out there is $4000 a motorcycle.
So the targeted finance offers are just that very targeted and they allow us to work on some of that price gap.
I will also say that being able to do this with HDFS is absolutely a fantastic benefit and advantage to us.
We've immediately got over 700 dealers in the United States.
We can access them.
We can offer the same thing and we can get execution very pristine across the US and certainly HDFS is proving to be a tremendous advantage.
And then the last piece is really leveraging some of our competitive advantages things that we have that no one else does.
First and foremost is the dealer network and getting their focus where we need it to be.
And the second are our assets such as rider academy.
So a program like this and Matt had mentioned it in his prepared remarks as we offered free rider training to all veterans and active military folks and this is an incredibly brand enhancing opportunity for us.
And it comes at a very efficient price.
So we're not seeing the benefits of that in the first half.
We launched that in the middle of May and we've seen overwhelming response of interest and what it's going to take is folks getting enrolled in riding academy complete the course and then purchase the motorcycle.
So this is something that's going to drive more in the second half certainly than it did in the first half and be a very strong brand enhancing point with about a third of our customers buying new motorcycles in any given year.
I will just add.
This is Matt.
I think the energy that we've put in in the quarter is around really smart creative reinforcing ways to compete.
So as an example we've talked a lot internally about the simple truth that $1 invested in pulling forward a sale is $1 wasted.
So our energy is around high-quality things that convey the core meaning the core value of joining the Harley-Davidson brand versus another choice people might have.
I think the rider academy veterans program is a great example of the great work that we're doing internally to do smart things to grow the business long-term.
As John mentioned practically none of that investment is in the second quarter numbers yet but we couldn't be more impressed with the response in numbers and in the nature of the response as far as how people are feeling about Harley-Davidson's investment in our veterans.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Milota with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hi thank you.
Just on the $750 million debt issuance - it sounds like you're in the market right now - what pricing our you expecting to achieve on that debt? Thanks Kevin.
We are not in the market at this point.
We expect to be in the market very quickly in the next couple of weeks.
And we certainly look for a price commensurate with our ratings and the team here the treasury team does a fantastic job but at this time I'm not going to speculate on what we believe we will get.
Markets are dynamic and change.
But we should be in the market in the next couple of weeks.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Conder with Wells Fargo Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and thanks for the color on the gross margin in particular the FX cadence very helpful.
Mostly clarifications here touring John you commented on sort of the cadence of your shipments in there but touring was down noticeably here in the second quarter year-over-year so some comments there.
And then Canada any additional color you can give there related to the accretion for next year and then finally just as a reminder the HDFS financing promotions where does that flow through in the P&amp;L? Thank you.
Thanks Tim.
So touring shipments.
Tim what you are referring to is on the shipment slide.
When we look at percent of total Street was basically up 4 percentage points and touring was down 4 and we expected this as we entered into the quarter.
We are continuing to grow our shipments of Street as we fulfill the international rollout and when everything adds up to 100 something has to come down and when we look touring is down and the previous four quarters we had our cruiser business about 6 percentage points so there's a lot of concerned with regards to that.
But whenever we look at the total and we're investing in different parts of the business something has to come down.
One we are very thrilled we're seeing stability in the cruiser number in terms of percent of total and there are no issues whatsoever with touring.
It's just that as one goes up something's got to come down.
And I will say that actually touring is continuing to do very strong.
We mentioned that we lapped a 31% increase in the year ago numbers and our Rushmore sales was still up on a year-over-year basis in the quarter so we're very pleased with that business.
The second question that you had Tim is Canada.
So in early August we expect to step in the shoes of our distributor in Canada.
Again we would expect from the overall transaction what's going to happen is that we will receive a little bit more revenue and that is the margin that we pay and have paid our distributor in Canada will go away and we'll distribute directly to our dealers in Canada.
So we'll see a tiny bit more revenue.
You are not going to be able to see it on the - it won't be a big impact on the whole thing but certainly from a Canada perspective.
And then the second piece of it is that we will also assume the expenses for running the market so SG&amp;A will increase in the third quarter and ongoing.
Now when we net the higher revenue and the SG&amp;A out over time that will be beneficial.
We'll have more revenue than SG&amp;A and therefore the transaction will be accretive into the future.
However in the short-term as we transition there are various things that we need to do from a people standpoint a systems standpoint a logistics standpoint to step into those shoes.
And we do expect in the near-term to be - a cost of about $0.04 per share and again by the nature of when we get into this most of that will happen in terms of the third quarter and in terms of higher SG&amp;A spending.
And your final question Tim was with regards to HDFS and the finance promotions that were in second quarter.
When we look at it the biggest drivers of those promotions on HDFS were really to originations which were up 7% and the receivables that were up 5%.
When we look at the income which again had a very strong quarter at HDFS up 10% very little of that if any is captured in this.
Remember these are 60-month loans.
They really got in the marketplace in mid-May to mid-June so you're picking up maybe 1/60th of that loan so very little if any impact in terms of the overall financial performance is due to that activity in the second quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Spak with RBC Capital.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the questions.
The first one is just again I'm a little bit confused on the shipment versus retail timing shift you explained.
I understand the rationale for trying to balance out some of the production and shipments to get some better absorption in the fourth quarter but if retail seasonality doesn't change how do you not end up with a higher inventory situation it was the first question.
The second question is can you just go over the net interest margin at HDFS in the quarter.
It was up but volumes were down and I don't think spreads are getting better.
So is there some mix impact there or is it really what you just said on the question prior which is there's just not that much impact from the current quarter in the issuance of results this quarter? Thanks Joe.
The first question is very simple.
We would expect Q3 inventories to be down more than they would have been and Q4 inventories will end up similar to where we always expected.
So we'll balance some of that with just lower inventories going into the fourth quarter retail inventories.
The second question Joe was with regards to HDFS results.
We're continuing to see attractive spreads in our business there.
If you look at the bridge there you're seeing that net interest income is up I believe $4.6 million and that was due to higher receivables offset by a little bit of lower spreads on the competition and we've seen that for the last four quarters.
We are not seeing the 0.99 loans that we have in the marketplace playing out in that.
As we go forward we will see a contraction in spread as some of those loans move through.
Now some of those loans are also subvented by the motor company.
So HDFS is not going to feel the full impact of that.
We do very little subvention between companies.
I don't think in 2012 or 2013 we did any.
Last year we did some because of the excess inventory due to the weather.
I think it amounted to about 3% of the overall loan.
So we will see a little bit of tightening of spreads as those loans move through the portfolio but we are not seeing any of it in the second quarter and again overall we feel very good about the business at HDFS.
Hopefully everyone caught the fact that we changed our guidance to be down modestly on a year-over-year basis to be up modestly on a year-over-year basis and the team at HDFS has done an absolutely fantastic job managing that business.
Your next question comes from the line Rod Lache with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everybody.
Just two things.
One is a lot of talk about the competitive behavior that you are seeing and you stepped up some marketing and maybe subvented financing.
But you are seeing still positive pricing of $19 million year-over-year and you saw that in Q1 as well.
Just could you help us reconcile really what is happening here that despite the competitive dynamics you were actually still experiencing some positive on the pricing is the pricing mostly international to mitigate FX? Are there some opportunities in North America that you are seeing as well? Thanks Rod.
The pricing where - we typically take pricing at model year so the bulk of that $19 million you were seeing on the bridges from pricing that we took last August.
Over the last several years we've been taking pricing with the exception of the Rushmore year but net pricing in excess of cost has been about half a percentage point for the last several years and that's what you were seeing in the $19 million.
Last year August pricing increased revenue by about 1 percentage point cost of goods sold increased by about half a percentage point and gross margin was up about half a point.
That is simply playing out.
Now interim we did take a little bit of pricing in Europe.
Not that much to drive that $19 million but we raised prices in Europe I believe in late March by 1.2 percentage points and that was to help mitigate some of the currency actions that we saw but the bulk of what you were seeing was done a year ago and again we'll look to provide the market and you guys with what our pricing looks like for our model year 2016 on August 24.
Your next question comes from the line of Jaime Katz with Morningstar.
Your line is open.
Good morning thanks for taking my question.
I just have a quick one.
The HDFS share of motorcycle sales financed was significantly higher than it has been in the past.
Is there some level of motorcycle financing where you guys get uncomfortable with bearing sort of most of those loans or where it starts to constrain sales or is there sort of no bound on that? Hi Jamie.
To say no bound on that I don't know how to answer that.
Everything we do at HDFS certainly goes through a rigorous underwriting process.
We feel very good about the returns on the loans that we take and we've been very consistent in terms of the financing over these last 10 years.
Our market share usually is in the 50% to 55% range.
Now having said that in this quarter given some of the response to the competitive activity we certainly took on more loans.
Now to make sure that everyone understands that 0.99 is our very top prime customer we have three tiers of prime customers and they don't all receive 0.99 that is the FICO scores that are extremely high and losses are extremely low.
We do not offer those finance promotions to near prime or to subprime customers.
So no we are not concerned about the credit value - credit aspect of those loans in a way shape or form as they represent our top customers.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Jonas with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Hi this is [Neil] on for Adam Jonas.
I wanted to ask about the recent - your views on the recent CFPB ruling on expanded oversight of captive subs.
Do you foresee that having an impact on HDFS? If so could you talk a little bit about that? And then also wanted to ask about residual used car prices where those have been heading.
Thank you.
Thanks Adam.
So first question on the CFPB.
Recently within the last quarter the CFPB made a ruling that finance companies with loans over I believe 10 000 in loans would be under the authority of the CFPB so we fall within that jurisdiction.
So we've always been regulated by the FDIC and others and now we will add CFPB to folks that provide oversight to us.
That's the biggest change that we see at this point.
We'll continue to monitor it and otherwise shouldn't be any big change.
The second question is with regards to use by pricing.
In the first half of this year within our dealer network and as we've talked before it's very difficult to really put your finger on used bike pricing.
There are 40 or so models they span over a ten-year period of time and there's all kinds of customization different levels of customization within models so it's not an easy thing really to ferret out but the best that we can tell within our dealer network in the first half is that used bike prices are stable.
Now within that we're seeing used bike prices firm up a little bit in touring largely flat in sportsters and down slightly in our large cruisers and Dynas and Softails.
But in aggregate we're very pleased that used bike prices are holding to year ago levels.
Your final question today comes from the line of David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
Your line is open.
Yes good morning everyone.
John just a question on growth and non-growth in touring.
I guess the question is how confident are you [indiscernible] in fourth quarter you can get back to growth? In terms of overall Rushmore David we couldn't be more pleased and when we look at just the quarter we're lapping a 31% gain and growing on top of that.
Now Road Glide is helping with that.
Road Glide represented about 12% of US sales in the second quarter so that helped with that but in aggregate we feel great about Road Glide.
We feel great about the continued sales of Street Glide and the Limited and Road King is in that family as well.
And again we're lapping huge numbers and beating them.
Thanks everyone for your questions.
The audio recording and slides for today's call will be available at Harley-Davidson.com.
The audio can also be accessed until August 4 by calling 404-537-3406.
The pin number is 71105885 then #.
If you have questions please contact Harley-Davidson Investor Relations at 414-343-8002.
Thanks.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Ryan and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed to mute in order to prevent any background noise.
After our speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn our call over to Amy Giuffre.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Ryan and good morning everyone.
You can access the slides supporting the call on harley-davidson.com.
Click About Harley-Davidson at the bottom of the home page then Investor Relations and Events and Presentations.
Our comments will include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks that could cause actual results to be materially different.
Those risks include among others matters we have noted in our latest earnings release and filings with the SEC.
Harley-Davidson disclaims any obligation to update information in this call.
This morning our President and CEO Matt Levatich; and CFO John Olin will be hosting the call.
Matt? Thanks Amy and good day everyone.
Last quarter I talked about my confidence in the strength of the business our strategies and our team.
Today despite some disappointing results but thanks to a lot of great strategy and planning work we've done over the last several months I'm even more confident we have the foundation plan and team in place to compete to win and lead in the marketplace.
I'll talk more about our forward view and actions in a minute but first I want to share some perspectives on our quarter and year so far.
You've read the results in this morning's press release and it goes without saying the quarter and the year-to-date did not unfold the way we expected.
The marketplace has thrown us some curve balls this year and competition has ramped up whether it's a currency-driven advantage for competitors in the U.S.
or new products from competitors in EMEA.
We've also had some headwinds of our own making such as product availability and voluntary recalls.
We fully recognize we have to raise our game.
We challenged our playbook acted to drive demand reallocated spending and fast-tracked initiatives.
Some of our actions like the U.S.
Military Learn to Ride initiative and the rollout of our new 2016 models hit the mark and stimulated demand.
Some of our actions did less than we expected but the bottom line on Q3 is our performance did not meet our expectations.
We know we can do better and we will.
Moving forward we're taking what we've learned and are applying it.
We continue to refine our investments and sharpen our resolve.
And that's why I'm more confident now than ever in our ability to compete and win.
Part of this confidence comes from the nature of the successes we did see and part of it rests on the incredible foundation already in place and our plans to take it to the next level.
In short we're going to dial things up.
As you know six years ago we introduced our plan to grow our reach and impact with more customers globally.
To do so we committed to do what it took to be great at our core work of product development manufacturing and retail.
Today much of that work is complete with fine-tuning ongoing.
We have incredible strengths that we can leverage and maximize.
We know how to develop great customer-led products and get them to market in world-class time and we will do even more in this area.
We know how to manufacture to effectively meet dynamic global customer demand.
We know what customers expect at retail and our industry-leading dealers are equipped to provide best-in-class customer experiences.
We have a tremendous brand that ignites passion in every one of our customers.
And most importantly we've proven that our strong appeal with U.S.
core customers extends to every one of our U.S.
outreach segments and to our international customers in both developed and emerging markets.
As we look to the future our plan to grow our reach and impact with customers globally has not changed.
And at their core our focus areas I'll be talking about today are natural extension of the strong foundations we have in place.
So let's talk about our path ahead.
We've got five clear objectives.
One lead in every market.
This means achieving and holding the number one share of the 601 cc motorcycle segment.
This is not just about competing but winning.
This is the objective we're all most energized by.
Two grow the sport of motorcycling in the United States in part by growing the number of U.S.
core customers and growing U.S.
outreach customers at a faster rate.
We're already making great progress in this area as we have more than doubled the rate of growth in sales to outreach customers versus sales to core customers in each of the last four years and are on track to do so this year as well.
Three grow U.S.
retail sales and grow international retail sales at a faster rate.
We have a target to grow the international dealer network by 150 to 200 new dealerships by 2020.
Four grow revenue and grow earnings faster than revenue through 2020.
And finally outperform the S&amp;P 500.
So those are the objectives.
Now let's talk about how we plan to achieve them in a market environment we expect will continue to be highly competitive.
A minute ago I talked about dialing things up.
But I don't mean just for a quarter or a year.
Now is the time for incremental investment to drive demand.
For 2016 and beyond we've challenged ourselves to reallocate existing spending into demand-driving investments in both customer-facing marketing and new product development.
In 2016 we'll increase our investment in customer-facing marketing by approximately 65% above 2015 levels.
We also plan to increase our investment in new product development by approximately 35% from 2015 levels.
To give you a sense of the magnitude of our commitment to new products we had already substantially increased our investment this year in new product development which means that our planned investment for 2016 in the next several years would be nearly twice what it was in just 2014.
In dollar terms these investments and product development and marketing represent an approximate $70 million increase in our investment to drive demand compared to 2015.
Our investments will be focused in four key areas.
First increasing product and brand awareness.
Second growing new ridership in the United States.
Third increasing and enhancing brand access.
And finally accelerating the cadence and impact of new products.
Now let's talk about each one in turn starting with product and brand awareness.
We've got fantastic industry-leading products and there's more to come.
We can do more to let people know about them whether it's with people who aspire to take up riding riders of competitive brands or existing customers who could trade up to a new Harley-Davidson model that has even more of the latest features and technology.
Next grow new ridership in the United States.
We know the importance of bringing new riders into the brand and into the sport of motorcycling.
One of the key ways to grow ridership is to make it easier for people to learn to ride.
We've already seen great success with our Harley-Davidson Riding Academy training more than 220 000 riders worldwide since 2010.
With the rebranding of our program and the opportunity to learn to ride on a Harley-Davidson Street 500 along with the launch of the U.S.
Military Rider Training initiative we've grown our rider training by 25% over 2014.
We've created a pipeline to riding and we're going to do even more by expanding on our successful programs.
We're set to more than double the numbers of riders trained annually through the Riding Academy to over 100 000 globally by 2020 with the majority in the United States.
The third area focus is to increase and enhance brand access increasing customer touch points with Harley-Davidson.
First and foremost this is about continuing to expand and enhance our incredibly strong global dealer network which provides one of the greatest competitive differentiators for our brand through the service and experiences they deliver.
As I shared we have a target to grow our international dealer network by 150 to 200 new dealerships by 2020.
Beyond traditional dealerships we're developing new retail formats for urban centers and urban tastes.
eCommerce expansion is also key.
Currently Harley-Davidson products are available via eCommerce in the U.S.
India and China but look for more markets to come.
Importantly we'll also accelerate the cadence and impact of new products and extend our leadership in the features and technologies that matter to customers; things like linked brakes engine performance and environmental enhancements aerodynamics and electric vehicle technology.
Project Rushmore bikes and Project LiveWire are great early examples of our capability and resolve to deliver technology and innovation to inspire our riders.
I won't go into details about what's coming down the pipeline but there will be a steady drumbeat ranging from product updates and refreshes to new products and meaningful technology including new engines and all-new motorcycles from the ground up too.
So there you have it.
We're committed to dialing up our strengths in growing Harley-Davidson by increasing our reach and impact.
All of this will require smart and strong plans agility accountability and commitment from our entire team.
We're ready and we're committed.
And we know as we showed with manufacturing and product development that when we're all committed we do amazing things.
I want to be crystal clear.
The path forward will play out over a number of years.
This isn't about improving results for a quarter or even a year.
This is about where we want to be in 3 years 5 years and even 10 years.
We'll continue to build on our plans adapt and adjust as we need to.
So as I wrap up my comments I hope you've noticed the common theme market leadership.
The path we're on is all about asserting our already substantial leadership in the industry and continuing to drive sustainable growth well into the future.
We're going to lead and compete with clear purpose and intent.
We're going to lead boldly and unapologetically.
We're not just going to compete.
We're here to win.
With that I'll turn it over to John.
John? Thanks Matt.
Today I'll provide additional insight around our financial results found in the press release and slides.
The summary of our third quarter financial results starts on slide 14.
During the quarter revenue was $1.32 billion net income was $140.3 million and diluted earnings per share were $0.69 all achieved in an incredibly challenging environment.
Operating income for the motorcycle segment was down 2.2% compared to last year's third quarter.
Motorcycle segment gross margin continued to be very strong despite unfavorable currency impact.
The motorcycle business operating margin percent was down slightly driven by lower gross margin and slightly higher SG&amp;A spending.
At HDFS operating income was down 6.4% year-over-year.
The quarter also reflected higher corporate interest expense resulting from our recent recapitalization plan.
Despite the challenging conditions we continue to focus on delivering strong margins and strong returns over the long-term.
Now let's look at retail sales on slide 15.
Worldwide retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles were down 1.4% in the third quarter.
Retail sales were below our expectations and as a result we are adjusting our full year shipment guidance down by 11 000 motorcycles.
We now expect to ship between 265 000 and 270 000 motorcycles approximately flat to down 2% versus prior year.
It is critical for Harley-Davidson to manage supply in line with demand and protect our brand premium.
Looking forward we expect to return to growth as we benefit from our new 2016 model year motorcycles increased investment in demand-driving actions improved product availability and the overall strength of the Harley-Davidson brand.
Turning to the U.S.
on slide 16 third quarter retail sales were down 2.5% adversely impacted by continued intense competitive activity lapping the enthusiastic Rushmore response and limited availability on certain models.
These significant challenges were partially offset by our market response actions initiated in the second quarter.
While we believe these actions were effective they were not sufficient given the headwinds we face in the U.S.
During the quarter the U.S.
industry grew 4.5%.
We had a very strong market leadership share position of 52.4% and we believe the industry's robust growth during the quarter is a sign of industry strength going forward.
However our Q3 market share was down 3.9 percentage points versus prior year.
While we anticipated some level of share loss following the 13.4 points of market share gains in recent years our market share over the last four quarters was more severely impacted than we expected as a result of the competitive environment and the inclusion of autocycles in the industry numbers.
Dealers' retail inventories were consistently below prior year levels throughout the quarter which adversely affected product availability on certain models.
Inventories recovered by quarter end and finished the quarter up slightly to prior year.
We continue to expect year-end retail inventories to be flat slightly to up slightly compared to last year reflecting the incremental new models launched in the 2016 model year.
On slide 17 retail sales in our international markets were up 0.9% in the third quarter.
In the EMEA region retail sales were up despite the impact of new models introduced by competitive brands and currency-driven volume declines in markets where we sell our motorcycles to dealers in non-local currencies.
Year-to-date Europe market share was down 1.6 percentage points behind the impact of new low-priced models in the performance and standard segments market segments where we do not compete.
In the Asia-Pacific region emerging markets continue to experience growth.
However retail sales in the region were negatively impacted as a result of very limited availability of Street motorcycles in August and early September following a voluntary recall initiated in July.
The supply of Street motorcycles was largely restored by the end of the quarter.
Latin America region retail sales were down in the quarter as a result of soft retail sales in Brazil behind a weak economy consumer uncertainty and aggressive price competition.
Brazil declines were partially offset by strong growth in Mexico.
Finally retail sales in Canada were down modestly in a highly competitive environment.
We believe the market responded well to the change to a direct distribution model which took effect at the beginning of August and to a reduction in pricing with model year 2016 motorcycles.
Despite the volatility in global retail sales we believe we can continue to realize international growth by expanding our distribution network building on our brand experience across the world and delivering exceptional products that inspire riders.
On slide 18 wholesale motorcycle shipments in the quarter were up 5.5% compared to last year but slightly below our expected range of 54 000 to 59 000 motorcycles in response to the lower than expected retail sales during the quarter.
The overall shipment mix reflects a significantly higher percent of Cruiser shipments behind our model year 2016 product investments.
On slide 19 revenue for the motorcycles segment was up in Q3 compared to last year driven by a 5.5% higher motorcycle shipments partially offset by unfavorable currency exchange which reduced revenue by approximately 5.2% in unfavorable mix.
During the quarter the average motorcycle revenue per unit decreased $899 from the year-ago quarter behind unfavorable currency exchange and product mix partially offset by higher pricing.
Motorcycle and MSRP prices for our new 2016 model year motorcycles have increased by an average of about 1%.
After adjusting for the cost of new content pricing net of cost is up about 0.5% expressed as a percent of revenue.
Parts and accessory revenue grew 5.2% behind strong new product sales while general merchandise revenue was down slightly.
Both P&amp;A and general merchandise revenues were adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency exchange.
On slide 20 gross margin in the quarter was 34.6% which was 0.3 percentage points lower than last year.
Gross margin was very strong during the quarter when considering the adverse impact of foreign currency exchange which was $29.9 million unfavorable for the third quarter.
This was driven by the significant year-over-year weakening of our key foreign currencies which devalued an average of 18% compared to the prior year.
While manufacturing was unfavorable during the quarter year-to-date manufacturing was favorable by $7.4 million behind strong productivity gains partially offset by lower year-over-year production.
Our gross margin performance during the quarter and on a year-to-date basis is evidence of our strong underlying margin structure and flexible manufacturing capability.
On slide 21 operating margin as a percent of revenue for the third quarter was 12.5% down 0.4 percentage points compared to last year.
SG&amp;A spending in the quarter was up on a year-over-year basis due to the consolidation of Canada into our operations partially offset by other favorabilities.
Going forward we remain intensely focused on an operating investment profile that will drive top-line growth.
Coupled with a continuous improvement mindset we will drive our business to be stronger more flexible and more profitable.
Now let's take a look at our Financial Services segment on slide 22.
During the quarter HDFS operating profit decreased 6.4% compared to last year.
Net interest income was favorable to prior year driven by higher receivables partially offset by lower yields on receivables due in part to the recent low-rate promotional activity.
The provision for retail loan losses was unfavorable to prior year due to higher retail credit losses and an increase in receivables.
HDFS' third quarter operations are summarized on slide 23.
HDFS' retail loan originations increased 14.3% compared to last year's third quarter primarily driven by a 9.6 percentage point increase in our U.S.
market share and a higher average amount financed per motorcycle.
The strong market share performance was driven by the third quarter promotional offers.
On a year-to-date basis loan originations were comprised of approximately 80% prime loans and 20% subprime.
As a predominant lender to subprime customers these originations represent a significant amount of retail sales to the company at very attractive returns which further reinforces the competitive advantage that HDFS brings to the company.
At the end of the quarter we had $405 million of cash and cash equivalents at HDFS.
In addition HDFS had nearly $1 billion of available liquidity through bank credit and conduit facilities.
On slide 24 you'll see the 30-day delinquency rate for retail motorcycle loans at the end of the quarter was 3.16% or 16 basis points higher than the same period last year.
Delinquency rates across the portfolio continued to perform at near record low levels.
Annualized retail credit losses increased by 11 basis points to 1.19% compared to last year's third quarter driven by modestly higher credit losses in line with increased subprime origination in recent years as well as changing consumer behavior.
During the third quarter HDFS continued to maintain a strong liquidity position and contributed strong profitability.
HDFS remains focused on enabling sales of Harley-Davidson motorcycles while providing attractive return to Harley-Davidson Inc.
The remaining Harley-Davidson Inc.
financial results are summarized on slide 25.
I would like to highlight that the company generated operating cash of $1.02 billion in the first nine months of this year.
Operating cash was up $54.1 million from last year driven by lower wholesale lending and lower working capital partially offset by lower net income.
The company currently has and intends to continue to maintain a minimum of 12 months of projected liquidity needs in cash and/or committed credit facilities.
Now switching our focus to shareholder value on slide 26.
Returning value to our shareholders is a top priority.
You will see that during the third quarter we paid a dividend of $0.31 per share.
In addition we repurchased 9.4 million shares for $536 million.
During the third quarter we also began to execute our recapitalization plan.
Details of the plan are on slide 27.
We successfully borrowed $750 million in a combination of both 10-year and 30-year notes.
As we move forward we will invest to grow the business and improve overall performance and we will continue to evaluate opportunities to enhance value for our shareholders through increasing dividends and repurchasing shares.
Before I update our 2015 guidance on slide 28 I want to discuss changes that we will make to the company's motorcycle operating investment profile in 2016 as it will have an impact on our Q4 and full-year 2015 results.
As Matt discussed in 2016 we will significantly increase our investment to drive demand.
We will source the funds by reallocating from our existing spending primarily from support functions and through reorganization of our commercial operations aimed at being both leaner and stronger.
And again we expect to increase our investment in customer-facing marketing activities by approximately 65% from 2015 levels.
We also expect to increase our investment in new product development by 35% from 2015 levels.
As we prepare the organization for this new operating investment profile we expect to incur one-time expenses in Q4 of 2015 of approximately $30 million to $45 (sic) $35 million.
These one-time expenses will largely consist of employee separation and reorganization cost.
We expect the significant change will address the current competitive environment and will accelerate top line growth over the next several years.
Now let's talk about guidance for the full year.
For the full year 2015 we now expect to ship 265 000 to 270 000 motorcycles which is approximately flat to down 2% versus last year.
During the fourth quarter we expect to ship 47 000 to 52 000 motorcycles which is approximately flat to up 10% compared to last year's fourth quarter.
For 2015 we now believe operating margin for the motorcycle segment will be between 16% and 17% compared to 18.0% in 2014.
Our lower operating margin expectations are due to lower shipment expectations one-time charges we expect in Q4 and increased recall expenses during the third quarter.
In 2015 we continue to expect gross margin will be up modestly compared to 2014 impacted by both puts and takes.
On the positive side we expect a favorable impact from motorcycle pricing and strong productivity gains.
On the negative side we expect gross margin will be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency exchange and increased pension expense.
To dimensionalize the foreign currency exchange risk if currencies held at yesterday's exchange rates for the remainder of 2015 our full year motorcycle segment revenue would be adversely impacted by approximately 4.25%.
Taking into account our natural hedges and the fact that we have a significant portion of the year hedged we would expect about half of the unfavorable revenue dollar impact to translate into lower gross margin for the full year reducing gross margin by approximately 0.75 percentage points.
As we look forward to 2016 assuming that currencies hold at yesterday's exchange rates through 2016 recognizing this is a hypothetical expectation and in a very volatile exchange rate environment we would expect approximately $45 million of additional unfavorable foreign currency exchange impact to gross margin as we lap the hedge benefits that we expect to realize in 2015.
Looking at SG&amp;A excluding one-time charges we expect in Q4 we expect SG&amp;A to be up in 2015 compared to last year.
This includes the impact from the Canadian distributor transaction which occurred on August 4 2015.
The incremental SG&amp;A impact of the Canadian transaction was approximately $10 million of increased expense in Q3.
In Q4 we also expect approximately $10 million of SG&amp;A expense related to Canadian operations.
Our guidance for HDFS and CapEx remain unchanged.
We now expect full year tax rate to be approximately 35% versus previously expected 35.5%.
So that's the quarter.
And while the results have fallen short of our expectations we maintained a strong gross margin percent and delivered shareholder value through a $0.31 per share dividend and $536 million in share repurchases.
But what's most important is what lies ahead.
As Matt shared we have a clear path forward and are making the investments we believe are necessary to drive demand and grow our business and achieve our goals.
Thank you for your continued confidence and investment in Harley-Davidson.
With that we'll open it up to your questions.
Your first question comes from the line of Kevin Milota from JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning everyone.
Appreciate the time here.
Question on market share losses in the quarter.
Obviously the competitive environment is pretty clear to all of us but you called out the new product introductions by competitors.
I was hoping you could give some color on where specifically you're seeing the increased kind of competition from either new competitive supply or the competition in EMEA? And then secondly with the model year 2016 bikes how do you think those bikes are being perceived by both customers and dealers? How does that play into this market share theme as well? Thank you.
Great Kevin.
This is John.
In terms of market share in the United States we were down 3.9% pretty much in line with what we've seen over the last four quarters.
And again in the fourth quarter of last year we saw world currency shift and an incredible increase in overall competitive discounting.
So that's a big portion of the 3.9 points of share loss.
In addition we've seen more competition in terms of new product.
And also probably the biggest driver of share loss in the quarter was from a new product called autocycles.
That's included in the MIC numbers.
And we do not believe that they compete head-to-head with motorcycles.
It's a very different product.
It's much more car-like.
It has side-by-side seating a gas pedal and steering wheel but it is classified in the MIC numbers.
So the biggest piece of that share loss is coming from the inclusion of autocycles in overall market share.
The thing that we're most excited about is next quarter.
In the fourth quarter we start to lap the beginning of softness due to the competitive discounting.
And so we'll have a little bit easier comps as we move into the fourth quarter and throughout next year.
In terms of EMEA it's been a highly competitive market there as well.
That has not been driven by price competition as much as it has been in the U.S.
In EMEA it's really driven by a couple new products.
They are what we would call a middle-weight displacement in the 700 cc and 900 cc category and they're in the performance and standard segments.
We compete in cruisers and – but these products have had a tremendous impact on the market.
They've been very well received and actually driving the year-to-date growth in the European market up 10%.
And so first couple of quarters hit us pretty hard with regards to market share loss in Europe.
Much better in the third quarter retail sales turned positive 2.4%.
The European team is doing a great job that came out with a couple of significant promotions.
Custom Kings which is a competition of personalizing and customizing our Street motorcycles as well as king of demos (31:23) and they've done a magnificent job in turning that around and very pleased what we are seeing in the third quarter there.
And the last question that you asked Kevin is with regards to model year 2016 motorcycles.
We feel very good about the model year 2016 launch and so do our dealers a lot of times people compare everything going back to Rushmore.
Rushmore was an incredible year for us and that about 50% of our volume and half our models were redone.
And we're going to see those from time to time but they're not going to be every year.
And with that our model year 2016 was focused on our Cruiser bikes.
And we added a tremendous amount of power to those bikes by adding our High Output 103 engine.
We added cruise control to Softails.
And in addition we added or significantly improved five models.
There was two S models which include a 110 engine and they have sold extremely well as well as a new Road Glide Ultra and two refreshes of our most popular Sportsters in Iron 883 and Forty-Eight.
As you look at the quarter we were very light on supply.
Our supply could not meet the demand of those five models.
We ended the quarter with about one bike per dealer in the U.S.
in inventory.
So still very light as we exited the quarter on inventory for those five models.
And that will be replenished in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
Very good.
I appreciate the details.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Badishkanian from Citi.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Yeah I just wanted to follow up on the easier compares from the promotional environment.
So fourth quarter it gets a little bit easier.
When do we start to see kind of the really easier comparisons? Would that be by second quarter of 2016 versus second quarter of 2015? When do those compares get easier? Thanks Greg.
The full brunt of the discounting was really in the first quarter.
We saw – it started up in the fourth quarter and had certainly soft market share and that was the competitive discounting and some new competitive entrants in the fourth quarter of last year.
But really when you look at the full fury of the price discounting it was in the first quarter.
By and large it got a little bit stiffer in the second quarter but we would look to the first quarter as being that mark you're talking about.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah.
Yeah.
All right.
Good.
And then just with respect to your investments in consumer-facing marketing by 65% and then product development by 35%.
So I'm assuming that the product development probably doesn't start benefiting you for probably it's not 2016 but it's more 2017 2018 2019 given the lead times.
And then – but the marketing would probably benefit sales immediately.
Am I thinking that the right way? Yeah.
This is Matt.
You are.
Product development and as I mentioned in my comments we started to increase the investment.
In fact in 2015 it will go even higher again another 35% in 2016.
And the lead time I'm getting products to market is a factor and when you'll see the benefit of that.
But as we've discussed many times we're focused on really reading what our customer is looking for from Harley-Davidson making smart decisions about the products that are going to drive demand and getting into market in world-class time.
And that is embedded now in our product development capability set.
So you won't have to wait years and years for that stuff to start seeing the market.
And with respect to the marketing investment our focus on that is that it is discretionary dollars if you will not embedded in people so that we have the flexibility to invest that money within the year and across years in the most effective manner to drive the most effective growth so thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Kennison from Robert W.
Baird.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
First question is what is your outlook for year-end inventory in the U.S.
and internationally? Thanks Craig.
This is John.
With regards to the year-end inventory we are looking at inventories in the U.S.
being up slightly and that would be solely driven by the new models that we added in our model year 2016 lineup.
There was three incremental models and the two S models and Road Glide.
So slight increase in U.S.
year-end inventory driven by that.
Internationally we expect inventories to be up slightly versus year ago as well and that's just based on the growth projections that we have into 2016.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks.
And second question.
With respect to your plan to spend an incremental $70 million I'm trying to get a feel for whether you have offsets in the model.
In other words when we look at 2016 you think we'll be closer to the 18% to 19% operating margin you had previously targeted or closer to the 16% to 17% that you're experiencing this year? Yeah.
So when we look at the overall drop in operating margin of 2 percentage points right we were at 18% to 19% and we're dropped at 16% to 17% and there's a couple of drivers of that.
And one is the absorption on 11 000 units which certainly affects our gross margin.
Having said that Craig our gross margin we still expect to be up on a year-over-year basis.
And I can't stress enough how important that is and how powerful the margin structure is at Harley-Davidson.
So you look at gross margin we're going to have well over $100 million hit in currency which is three-quarters of a percentage point.
We're going to have unfavorable mix as we invest in an incredibly powerful product such as Street.
And we've also – we'll have lower year-over-year production and therefore a headwind on production and yet still our gross margin is going to grow in 2015.
And that's driven by the ability to price our products and incredible productivities that we're driving out of the plants.
So that will stay with us in 2015 and 2016 as we go forward.
Also affecting operating margin this year is higher non-repeating SG&amp;A expenses.
So what we've got is three SG&amp;A expenses that are affecting our overall guidance for the remainder of this year.
One is the one-time expenses of $30 million to $35 million.
And this is money spent already as for that new investment profile to significantly increase our investment and demand-driving activities into 2016 and beyond.
The second is incorporation of Canada in the guidance.
Remember we didn't have that in our guidance after the second quarter.
And we talked about that being $0.04 dilutive.
Well that's all coming in the form of higher SG&amp;A as we transition that business and size it appropriately size it to gain the synergies out of us managing that market.
And then the third piece of it is certainly unanticipated recall expense of $15 million in the third quarter.
So you take the lower absorption and the SG&amp;A that's what's driving our gross margins to be down.
So to answer your question Craig is the gross margin is incredibly strong and powerful and that will continue to move into next year.
We will have some headwinds on currency in 2016.
But overall very strong gross margin.
And these things that we're talking about affecting operating margin are all non-repeating items.
Your next question comes from the line of Gerrick Johnson from BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Good morning.
Matt we didn't hear a lot about resources being earmarked to fix quality.
The parade recalls you've been having is limited availability costs you money and perhaps sending some customers over to India.
So how do you plan to fix quality? And then second maybe you can just tell us how much we spent so far this year on recalls.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Gerrick.
So there is a tremendous amount of effort going on throughout the entire make side of the business: manufacturing development and supply management.
And in fact this intensity got dialed up when we had our first Rushmore-related recall here shortly after launch.
So there's nothing from a cost perspective that you're seeing related to those changes but they are significant.
I would say that in my time here we've never had a more significant view on all the things we need to do to assure quality.
We enjoy incredible loyalty and incredible trust on the part of our riders.
We will do nothing to violate that.
It's incredibly valuable to us and these recalls have been very disappointing to the company and to our riders and to our dealers.
There's no question about it.
I will say that there's nothing more important than the safety of our riders.
They are not sitting in cars with seatbelts and airbags and sheet metal around them.
We understand immediately any safety implications that might exist with the quality problem.
We get on it as quickly as we can.
And we act decisively in the interest of the safety of our riders.
And meanwhile we're doing everything that we know and we're bringing all sorts of outside expertise into auditing assessing and advising us on what we need to do to get out of this state with these product quality issues that we've suffered.
So again there's nothing that isn't in the numbers that needs to be in the numbers but there's an incredible amount of intensity going on within the business and I think John you – Gerrick asked the total number of recalls.
Yes.
Gerrick you asked about the total.
It's $32 million of recall expenses in our year-to-date number.
Okay.
Great.
And I was just wondering when did you guys begin constructing this new plan? It seems to come right on the heels of a brand new launch that was supposed to be a good new lineup for model year 2016.
When did you sit down say okay we need to do something let's formulate a plan and let's go forward with this? Gerrick this is Matt again.
So coming out of Q4 with the currency driven – this currency-enabled discounting and into Q1 and we started to see the impact on our business.
And I'll tell you that from my perspective we've had a longstanding commitment and it remains to manage supply in line with demand.
That is to preserve the premium nature of the brand in the marketplace and that is absolutely critical to us.
However it becomes – I guess the first quarter in particular started really resonate with me from a standpoint of – that's we're only talking about half the side of that equation and what do we need to do as a business to drive demand.
And so beginning really in Q2 we took action.
We had a lot of early plans.
We were a little bit behind the seasonality curve at that point in time.
So it didn't have the effect that we expected and we're driving four for this year.
But as I said in my opening remarks it taught us a lot about what works what doesn't work and where we need to apply ourselves with more focus and more intensity to drive demand in a quality way globally for the long term.
So that's what we're about and that's what we've been working on really through Q2 and in earnest in Q3 and we will carry forward through Q4 with the restructuring to get ourselves fully set up to start really delivering in 2016.
And I would say that from my perspective this is a pivotal moment for the company.
We've been talking for six years about transformation and we're pivoting from transformation to driving demand and that's Harley-Davidson at this point in time in the midst of that pivot.
So thanks for the question.
Your next question comes from the line James Hardiman from Wedbush Securities.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
I had a quick follow-up on Craig's question then I had another question.
But I think Craig asked about the $70 million spend for next year and should we be netting some or all of that out It sounds like you're making some lay-offs.
I'm assuming that's a gross number.
Should we be netting a significant amount out of that or should we be adding $70 million to our OpEx assumptions for next year? Thanks James.
So to be crystal clear we are sourcing the $70 million.
The $70 million is completely incremental to our marketing and our new product development spending.
We are sourcing that from our existing SG&amp;A spending and largely in areas of the corporate support functions as well as a complete reorganization of our commercial side of the business to structure it to be much more focused leaner and direct with our ability to spend the $70 million in the most impactful way.
So we are not expecting overall SG&amp;A to go up as a result of our increased investment to drive demand of the $70 million.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And then maybe you could just take us back a few months ago.
I think a lot of people were doing the math heading into the second quarter and sort of assumed that you'd lower the guide.
Then you kept the guide unchanged which really implied an acceleration in the second half which really left The Street thinking that maybe you knew something about the makeup of the second half that we didn't.
What were you seeing back then that made you feel like things were going to get a lot better in the second half? Obviously they got worse.
But I guess another way to look at that I mean June end of June I think you talked about being really strong.
Did numbers fall off a cliff from there or was it a slow sort of straight line between high-single digits and a decline for the quarter? Right.
No.
Thanks James.
So we had talked about – we started to get money out in the market in mid-May to the mid-June timeframe if you recall and we had a three-pronged approach to doing that.
And we saw very good results in the month of June.
Month of June was up near double digit both in the international markets as well as in the United States.
And that momentum continued into July.
Matter of fact in July we were ahead of our plan my retail plan in July and the growth continued into the first half of August started to get softer in the back half of August and September was down.
And so things were going according to plan until about halfway through the quarter and they turned a little bit negative.
And again the spending that we did was effective but certainly not sufficient given the headwinds that we faced.
The comps also progressively got worse through the quarter as well.
And then we had some issues with availability in United States and certainly in our Asia Pacific markets with inventories being down.
When you looked at the U.S.
inventory while it finished up a little bit on a year-over-year basis for 12 of the 13 weeks it was down quite a bit and a lot of that time up to down 10%.
So that put some pressure on in the United States and certainly with the new products that we came out with for those five models the demand outstripped our ability to supply those.
And again still a little bit light on those inventories as we move in to the fourth quarter.
And in addition the recalls that we had we had two recalls in the middle of the quarter and they had an impact on some of our parts in particular on our Street motorcycles the fuel pump we couldn't produce them fast enough.
And we essentially – dealers weren't selling Street motorcycles for up to six weeks during the third quarter.
The biggest impact of that was in Asia Pacific.
Even though Asia Pacific was still up it was certainly hindered by lack of selling Street motorcycles for a period of that time.
Inventories are back with regards the Street and looking forward to a better fourth quarter.
You're next question comes from the line of Sharon Zackfia from William Blair.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
So a few follow-up questions on the marketing plan.
I guess could we get some more granularity on what you think worked and what didn't work over the summer from a marketing standpoint? And then do you have any kind of examples in the past where Harley has really kicked up the marketing and you've seen the results coming through? And then lastly growing the addressable motorcycle base it seems a little bit like rolling a boulder uphill and most of the folks we talk to they get interested in Harley because their friends are interested in Harley.
So how easy is that? I mean how are you going to get to that kind of higher cadence of folks going through the motorcycle academy? Thanks Sharon.
I can't remember the first question.
Let's start with the third question how are we going to take the $70 million or the 65% increase in customer-facing marketing and drive demand part of it is through awareness.
And you're absolutely right Sharon as a lot of this is through the brotherhood of riding and so on and so forth.
But the fact of the matter is our share of voice has never been close to our share of market and that's one of the benefits that we get of having one of the world's most powerful brands.
However in the last couple of years we have seen an incredible amount of marketing dollars coming in into the market and it's been diluting our share of voice a bit.
Just take the discounting for example.
I mean the tens and tens of millions of dollars of discounts are all being advertised throughout the United States and so we've lost a little bit on share of voice as well as the new products.
So we are going to get that share of voice back and yes we got tremendous things to talk about in terms of our new products and the products and the experiences that we offer and we have fallen a little bit behind on that in terms of us being front and center.
In terms of growing the ridership in the United States I'm actually getting back to your first question what's worked very well is things like the Military Rider Academy or free rider training.
The response has been way in excess of our expectations.
We've now got a quarter behind us on this and we're getting thousands of people through the Rider Academy program and we're starting to see the fruits of that pay off in a conversion rate which is better than what we would typically see with the military going through and ultimately buying a Harley-Davidson motorcycle.
So what's better than that that somebody that's never ridden we're bringing them into the sport of motorcycling and getting them on a Harley-Davidson.
So those types of things are what we're going to do a lot more of next year and you're going to see a lot more of that type of investment.
And we'd look at things that maybe didn't go as well.
I wouldn't say it's go as well but they were much more short term in nature for example the financing.
The financing drove incremental sales in the beginning of the quarter and we expected that and it did that.
However there is certainly diminishing returns on that type of investment and we never intended that to go into our model year 2016 motorcycles.
And so the financing ended with the new model year.
And again that's not the way to build into the future is training customers for discounts.
But it does – it is an important tool and it provided an opportunity for us to clear out some of the model year 2015s.
So we've learned from all of those things.
We're going to do a lot more of the things that work next year and we're going to bring more importantly a tremendous amount of more resources to do that.
And we're also organizing our company to be much more demand-focused in how we go to market with our dealers and our customers.
So this is Matt.
Sharon I'd just add the comment about that we have examples of this in the past not to this degree.
So we have – this is a significant shift for the company as I indicated.
We're dialing things up.
We're dialing things up in the area in principle to compete more effectively in the marketplaces around the world.
So we learned a lot this summer.
We're going to continue to learn things.
We're going to get some things wrong.
We're going to have to continue to dial things in.
But you can't do what we're talking about doing without putting dollars on the table and smart investments into the marketplace that drive sustainable profitable brand-enhancing growth for the company.
And that's why in my comments I indicated that you're not going to see necessarily a pop in the next quarter or even next year.
Some of this stuff is planting seeds for the long term.
And just to add to John's point getting people in the United States continue to be interested and passionate about motorcycling.
As a leader in the marketplace in the United States as a significant leader that we have been for decades we need to play more of a role than we have historically in that and we're putting money on the table to do that.
Ladies and gentlemen we are approaching the end of our call.
In order to provide more time for others to ask questions we ask that you limit yourself to one question.
Your next question comes from the line of Patrick Archambault from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I don't want to beat a dead horse on the market share thing.
But one of the things that surprised us was not necessarily the share performance.
I mean as you mentioned yourself right year-on-year the share decline has been somewhat sort of similar for the last three quarters which one would expect right unless the conditions competitive conditions have changed.
But the definition of the market declined right from up 9% in Q1 to up 6% I think and then up 4% and that was also another potential headwind there.
And I just wanted to ask you is there something you're seeing that's kind of starting to weigh on the growth of the market itself? This is John.
I don't think so.
So you're absolutely right Pat.
First quarter we're up 9% I think the industry was up 7% in the second quarter and this quarter 4.5%.
I think you're starting to just see some of the pull forward of the discounting that was done in the first quarter and probably should be looking more in an aggregate on a year-to-date basis.
The overall market is up 6.6% which certainly we're very pleased with a lot of new people coming in to motorcycling in general.
I don't – I just think you're seeing some of the initial impact of those tremendous discounts and some volumes pull forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks.
Matt you gave a number of examples of enhancements you're planning to make to your product line to be more attractive to customers but that's going to take some time.
So I'm wondering do you think you can grow – when we think about next year do you think you can grow unit shipments next year? And John I need to ask this question for you.
You talked about how your financing drove retail sales in the quarter and then you didn't apply that to the 2016 model year which is understandable.
Just can you help us understand how much of the financing promotions drove the retail sales in the quarter? Thank you.
Thanks Felicia.
I'll just comment quick on product development.
This is not new thinking right? There's new investment but thinking around customer-led product development is embedded in the product development transformation.
You started to see that with Rushmore with things like LiveWire.
Really understanding what people are looking for from Harley what is a unique and powerful product feature or technology that matters to riders.
So these ideas are already inherent in the pipeline of new products.
So what was referenced for the investment isn't so much of a capability or impact of the product but the capacity the quantity if you will for new products that will be increasing over time.
Felicia John.
When we talk about looking forward 2016 and what we expect in terms of the delivery of the dollars and marketing and certainly the product is – number one as we look at the – next year much easier comps.
So that starts it.
But model year 2016 and 2017 is certainly going to drive volume for us.
The continued rollout of Street outreach growth through the year-to-date outreach is up 7%.
Even the overall volumes are down.
We've been very successful in that avenue and continue that in 2016 and then finally international expansion.
This quarter alone we've put up 14 dealerships internationally which is a 2% increase in our overall international dealerships.
And as Matt mentioned upfront is we look to put up 150 to 200 new dealerships over the next five years which represents a 20% to 25% increase in our international dealerships.
So with all of that we expect growth in 2016.
And while we don't provide our guidance until January I think you can expect that you'll see in the neighborhood of 3% to 5% shipment growth as we look to 2016.
The next question you asked is with regards to financing.
It is very difficult to pull out how much exactly is driven by the financing piece.
When we initiated those projects the successes and the take rate is very high.
You can see our market share at HDFS was 70% in the quarter certainly driven by an increased amount of financing.
Difficult part is to see how much of those are incremental units.
Again at the onset we felt it certainly drove some of the performance that we had in the first part of the quarter but again not the way we want to go forward as training folks to buy unfinanced (58:53) promos.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Conder from Wells Fargo Securities.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Appreciate you guys taking a little extra time here given a lot of the changes you've outlined.
Couple of clarifications and then a question here.
John your FX hypothetical assuming rates would hold does that include the new Canadian dollar and the hedging related to that? Definition – on autocycles did you have any breakout as to how much that impacted your share? And then your incremental gross margin still 47% is that still a reasonable target at this point? Those are clarifications.
And then in the cutting of the shipments is that largely coming out of the Cruiser Sportster legacy products? It would seem it would be given your comment that the new products are basically were short supply there.
A – [07N2N5-E John Olin]&gt;: All right.
Tim I'm going to take a stab at these four questions.
I'm not sure I'm going to have them all but Amy can help.
Number one is the hypothetical would certainly include all of our currencies.
And again this is largely the lapping of the gains that we experience next year.
So specifically with regards to Canada Tim does it include it? Yes.
But the hypothetical is that the rates stay exactly as they were today through the 2016.
So we wouldn't have any impact on Canada because we didn't have Canada in the previous year and didn't have those risk exposures.
But we're looking at it that $45 million is basically the gains that we took on the financial hedges that we had this year we will lap next year as those hedges will dissipate and go away.
So we would expect that to be the headwind that we face in terms of foreign currency for next year.
But yes everything that we talk about at this point is inclusive of the Canadian dollar as we now are the owner of that risk.
I'll follow-up on the next few Tim.
John if you just want to get into the shipments question? The shipments questions are do we expect any particular skewing of those models coming out the answer is no.
We'll be pulling them down.
What you should expect to see in the fourth quarter in terms of mix is somewhat similar to what you saw in the third quarter is that the Cruiser as a percentage of our shipments will be up.
We've invested a lot of money having good success with the power that we're bringing to that line and so you should see that be up.
You'd also should see the Street Sportster category in segment be up.
Again we had some delays in some shipments of Street motorcycles.
And so those will be what you would expect to see up in the fourth quarter similar with what you saw this quarter and Touring down but they're coming out of all models.
Your next question comes from the line of Rod Lache from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Just a couple data point questions.
First is that – I think this was just asked is the 50% contribution margin on volume changing? Second what was the motorcycle company operating cash flow and CapEx in the quarter? Third can you just specifically tell us how much annual benefit you expect from the $30 million to $35 million of restructuring spend? The – so we still expect going forward 47% incremental margin on any additional unit that we put through the company that does not change.
Our overall cost structure does not change.
Again we talked about gross margin as very strong not a lot of overall changes to that.
When we look at Rod I think your next question is on the one-time expenses of the $30 million to $35 million.
They would all be cash expenses.
There are no write-downs in that number.
Your next question comes from the line of Joseph Spak from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thanks for squeezing me in here.
I guess I just wanted to talk about the new product initiative again and how you have confidence as you think that consumers to consistently pay for that innovation in what you yourself are categorizing as increasingly competitive environment and maybe tying that into – I think you made a comment about how price net of cost for 2016 would be 0.5 percentage point which is below what it's been in the recent past.
Is that the new normal level to think about what you can really get in terms of pricing for the contents you have to add? Hey Joe.
This is John.
Joe actually the – about 0.5 point net of price is really what we've been doing for the last several years.
I think we've ranged from 0.5 point to 0.75 point.
In the Rushmore year it was 0.75 point net of cost and net revenue was up about 3.5%.
But overall we've been in the same channel of 0.5 point to 0.75 point net of cost.
Joe what was the first part of the question? Sorry.
Joe's line is already closed.
Okay.
We'll move on to the next question.
Sorry about that Joe.
Your next question comes from David MacGregor from Longbow Research.
Your line is open.
It's late in the call here but I'm wondering if I could get you to just talk about the dealer network specifically here as it pertains to the plan for 2016.
Are there ways to leverage your dealer network as a market research asset I guess that you're not pursuing now and how specifically do you go about doing that? Yeah this is Matt.
I appreciate the question.
The dealer network is absolutely an integral part in every market not just the United States.
So part of our plans and approach include how do we engage the dealer network and continue to engage quite frankly the dealer network in the right way to identify customers nurture develop serve and support those customers.
John's comment about outreach is actually a great example of in the U.S.
the capability of the dealers growing over the last several years to understand that there's a whole world of people out there that are interested in Harley-Davidson what we stand for as a company how to talk to them how to work with them how to engage them and continue to keep them in the family.
And so we – our dealers as I mentioned in my comments are second to none in the industry just fantastic they're committed.
What more we can do with them is absolutely part of our plans.
Your next question comes from the line of Neel Mehta from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thanks and good morning.
I was just looking for an update on the Street in places like India and the Emerging Markets.
Do you think we're still in the very early stages of the rollout and are you able to put some numbers around the progress that we made in those regions? Yeah.
The rollout of Street began late in the fourth quarter of last year.
Remember we started out in four initial markets late in the fourth quarter of last year in Europe and then throughout the first half of this year largely in Asia Pacific markets.
And we couldn't be more pleased with the way that's going.
To pick a couple examples Street is the number one selling motorcycle in Australia the number one selling motorcycle in India.
When you move around the globe it's number two in Mexico.
In EMEA it's number six most popular selling motorcycle.
In United States it's number 13.
And again to put it in context in the United States there is no other Cruiser by any competitive – any competitor out there that's selling more than Street in the United States again to give you an example of the size and the ability to bring new people in on that bike.
So we couldn't be more pleased with the overall rollout of Street.
We do have a little bit of lapping of opportunity in the first half of next year in terms of Street growth.
Your last question comes from the line of Jaime Katz from Morningstar.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
You guys have touted your flexible manufacturing as sort of a competitive advantage in the past.
And I'm curious what lessons you've learned in the last quarter as demand has contracted a little bit to better position the company to stabilize those operating margins going forward? Yeah I'll start.
John can jump in.
I actually think John's comments about the performance in manufacturing are an absolute confirmation of the strength of the system that we built.
We've been able to read markets not just globally but internal to the United States in the spring as weather unfolded differently than we expected.
For example California is an entirely different specification that we build.
So it is in effect feels like a different country to us from a manufacturing perspective.
We're able to shift demand from the 49 states back to California specification motorcycles during the spring season when demand was far ahead of our expectations there versus the rest of the country.
So to be able to do all that and deliver these kind of gross margins in down volume years and stuff is an absolute testament to the strength of the capability.
All right.
Thanks Matt and John and thank you everyone for your questions and for hanging with us for a few extra minutes for today.
The audio recording and slides from today's call will be available at harley-davidson.com.
The audio can also be accessed until November 3 by calling 404-537-3406.
The PIN number is 435-895-74#.
If you have any questions please contact Harley-Davidson Investor Relations at 414-343-8002.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Michelle and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call over to Amy Giuffre.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
You can access the slides supporting this call on harley-davidson.com.
Click Company at the top of the home page then Investor Relations and Events and Presentations.
Our comments will include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks that could cause actual results to be materially different.
Those risks include among others matters we have noted in our latest earnings release and filings with the SEC.
Harley-Davidson disclaims any obligation to update information in this call.
This morning our CFO John Olin and President and CEO Matt Levatich will be hosting the call.
John let's get started.
Thanks Amy and good morning everyone.
Today I'll provide additional insight around our fourth quarter and full-year financial results found in our press release and supporting slides.
The summary of our fourth quarter financial results start on slide 4.
During the quarter revenue was $1.18 billion net income was $42.2 million and diluted earnings per share were $0.22.
Operating income from the Motorcycles segment was down $29.5 million from last year's fourth quarter.
Segment revenue was down versus prior year driven by unfavorable mix and currency exchange partially offset by higher shipments.
Additionally SG&amp;A was higher driven by reorganization charges which enabled the shift in our operating investment profile to drive more demand.
Operating income headwinds were partially offset by strong gross margin percent.
At HDFS operating income was down 2.5% year-over-year.
The quarter also reflected higher corporate interest expense resulting from our 2015 recapitalization.
Despite the challenging conditions we faced throughout 2015 we continue to focus on delivering strong margins and strong returns over the long-term.
Now let's take a look at our retail sales on slide 5.
Worldwide retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles were down 0.6% in the fourth quarter an improvement from the last three quarters trend when sales were down 1.4%.
The decline in U.S.
retail sales was partially offset by increases in international markets during the quarter.
Globally sales were impacted by ongoing aggressive competitive activity and macroeconomic challenges.
On the positive side our new 2016 model year motorcycles including the 2S models the Road Glide Ultra and our refreshed Forty-Eight and Iron 883 models all sold very well since our initial rollout.
For the full year worldwide retail sales were down 1.3% compared to last year.
2015 retail sales reflected a significant increase in competitiveness behind currency driven discounting and the introduction of new products by a number of our competitors.
During 2015 we took significant steps to improve our competitiveness without engaging in brand damaging discounting.
We have significantly shifted our operating investment profile for 2016 redirecting approximately $70 million of existing spending toward demand driving marketing and product development investment.
Let's take a look at the U.S.
market on slide 6.
Retail sales in the U.S.
were down 3.4% in the fourth quarter compared to the prior year behind intense competitive pressure and a challenging macroeconomic environment.
These significant headwinds were partially offset by demand for new products including our new Cruiser motorcycles.
In fact U.S.
Cruiser retail sales were up in the fourth quarter driven by strong sales of our two new Softail S models our first year-over-year increase in the Cruiser segment in eight quarters.
We also saw strong motorcycle sales of the Riding Academy graduates driven by our military Learn to Ride for Free program in the U.S.
For the quarter U.S.
retail market share was flat to last year at 51.4%.
As expected the market share trend substantially improved from previous quarters trends of down 3.7 points.
The improvement reflects our efforts to mitigate the impact of widening price gaps and the lapping of the aggressive competiveness that started late in Q4 2014.
For the full year our retail sales were down 1.7%.
Our full year market share of 50.2% was down 3.1 percentage points year-over-year.
While we anticipated some level of share loss following the 13.4 points of share that we gained in recent years our 2015 share was more severely impacted than we expected as a result of the competitive environment and the inclusion of auto-cycles in the industry numbers.
Finally as expected U.S.
dealer retail inventory was up approximately 2 600 motorcycles at the end of 2015 compared to 2014 largely due to the initial dealer fill of our new 2016 motorcycles.
We were comfortable with yearend dealer inventory levels as we continue to aggressively manage supply in line with demand.
On slide 7 you will see retail sales in our international markets were up 3.1% in the fourth quarter.
EMEA region retail sales were down 1.7% in Q4 due to continued pressure from the introduction of new low priced models by the competition and a very tough prior year comparison of up 8.7%.
For the full year EMEA retail sales were down 4.5% and full year market share in Europe was 10.5%.
While market share was down 1.5 percentage points for the year fourth quarter share was down only 0.6 percentage points an improvement over the prior quarter share trends.
Asia-Pacific region retail sales were up 8.2% in the fourth quarter driven by strong sales in emerging markets and in Australia partially offset by soft sales in Japan.
While retail sales were down in Japan we gained market share during the quarter.
For the full year Asia-Pacific retail sales were up 7.3%.
Latin America retail sales were down 1.5% in the quarter as a result of declines in Brazil partially offset by strong growth in Mexico.
Brazil's retail sales had been impacted by a slowing economy consumer uncertainty and very aggressive price competition.
For the full year retail sales in Latin America were down 4.1%.
Finally retail sales in Canada were up 12.3% in the fourth quarter but down 2.0% for the full year.
We believe the market responded well to the change to a direct distribution model and to a price reduction on 2016 model year motorcycles.
We plan to leverage international growth opportunities by expanding distribution and increasing our brand relevance by delivering exceptional products that inspire riders.
In 2015 we added 40 international dealerships and plan to add 150 to 200 through 2020.
On slide 8 you'll see wholesale shipments of Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the quarter were up 2.1% compared to last year and within our expected range.
The shipment mix reflects our product investments in model year 2016 as we shipped a significantly higher percent of Cruiser and Street/Sportster compared to last year.
On slide 9 you'll see revenue for the motorcycle and related products segment was down in the fourth quarter despite an increase in motorcycle shipments.
Q4 revenue was unfavorably impacted by currency exchange which reduced revenue by approximately 3.8% and unfavorable mix.
For the full-year Motorcycles segment revenue was down 4.7% behind a 1.6% decrease in motorcycle shipments and a 4.4% decline due to foreign currency exchange.
The average motorcycle revenue per unit was down for the quarter and full-year behind unfavorable foreign currency exchange and mix partially offset by higher pricing.
Both P&amp;A and general merchandise revenues were adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency exchange during 2015.
On slide 10 you'll see gross margin in the quarter was 31.9% which was 1.4 percentage points higher than last year.
Gross margin performed well with volume price raw materials and manufacturing all being favorable during the quarter partially offset by unfavorable mix in foreign currency exchange.
During the quarter overall mix was a headwind of $20.9 million driven by unfavorable motorcycle family mix reflecting the demand for our 2016 Cruiser and Sportster motorcycles.
Foreign currency exchange was unfavorable for the fourth quarter.
This was driven by the significant weakening of our key foreign currencies on a year-over-year basis.
The euro yen Brazilian real and Australian dollar devalued an average of 13% compared to prior year quarter.
This resulted in an unfavorable revenue impact of approximately 3.8% and unfavorable gross margin of $15.3 million for the fourth quarter.
Full-year gross margin was 36.8% which was up 0.4 percentage points from last year.
We were very pleased to be able to increase our full-year gross margin percent especially in the face of very unfavorable currency exchange and lower volumes and believe it is evidence of our strong underlying margin structure and flexible manufacturing capability.
On slide 11 operating margin as a percent of revenue for the fourth quarter was 0.6% down 2.9 percentage points compared to last year's fourth quarter.
As anticipated operating income of $6.4 million for the quarter was unfavorably impacted by higher SG&amp;A spending partially offset by very strong gross margin performance.
SG&amp;A spending was up $36.2 million driven by reorganization charges as well as expenses related to the acquisition and operations of our Canadian distribution.
Reorganization charges for the quarter totaled $30 million with $23 million being charged to SG&amp;A.
For the full year operating margin as a percent of revenue was 16.5%.
Going forward we remain intensely focused on a cost structure that will enable growth and continuous improvement to drive our business to be stronger more flexible and more profitable.
Now let's take a look at our Financial Services segment on slide 12.
During the quarter HDFS' operating profit decreased $1.5 million or 2.5% compared to last year.
The primary factors impacting fourth quarter results were; first net interest income was favorable to prior year by $9.3 million driven by higher receivables partially offset by lower yields on receivables due in part to the 2015 low interest rate promotional activity.
And second the provision for retail credit losses was unfavorable to prior year by $7.8 million due to higher retail credit losses and increased reserve rates.
On a full-year basis HDFS posted an operating profit of $280.2 million an increase of 0.9% compared to 2014.
HDFS' operations are summarized on slide 13.
During the fourth quarter HDFS' retail motorcycle loan originations decreased 1.7% compared to the same period last year.
In 2015 loan originations were comprised of approximately 80% prime loans and 20% subprime.
As the predominant industry lender to subprime customers these originations represent a significant number of retail sales to the company at very attractive returns.
For the full year HDFS continued to have a strong U.S.
retail market share of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles.
HDFS' market share increased 5.4 percentage points driven in part by promotional activity during the year.
At the end of the year we had $321.8 million of cash and cash equivalents at HDFS.
In addition HDFS had $748 million of available liquidity through bank credit and conduit facilities.
This month HDFS issued $1.2 billion in medium-term notes.
On slide 14 you'll see the 30-day delinquency rate for retail motorcycle loans at year-end was 3.8% or 17 basis points higher than year-end 2014.
Delinquency rates across the portfolio while up remain at near record low levels.
Annual retail credit losses increased by 20 basis points to 1.42% compared to 2014 driven by expected increased losses in the subprime portfolio lower recovery values on repossessed motorcycles and a recent deterioration in performance in oil dependent areas of the U.S.
During 2015 HDFS continued to maintain a strong liquidity position and contributed strong profitability to the company.
HDFS remains focused on enabling sales of Harley-Davidson motorcycles while providing attractive return to Harley-Davidson as demonstrated by the $140 million dividend HDFS paid to Harley-Davidson Inc.
this month.
The remaining Harley-Davidson Inc.
financials are summarized on slide 15.
The company generated operating cash of $1.10 billion during 2015 down $47 million from last year driven by lower net income and increased wholesale lending partially offset by favorable working capital.
Also the full-year tax rate was 34.6%.
During the quarter the R&amp;D tax credit was reinstated for 2015 and going forward.
The full-year 2015 benefit was recognized entirely in the fourth quarter.
The company has and intends to continue to maintain a minimum of 12 months of projected liquidity needs in cash and/or committed credit facilities.
On slide 16 we have our full-year 2015 results.
You will see revenue net income and earnings per share were all below 2014 levels due to a significant increase in overall market competitiveness an adverse impact from currency exchange and higher SG&amp;A behind reorganization charges and product recall expenses.
Switching our focus to shareholder value on slide 17.
Returning value to our shareholders is a top priority.
During the fourth quarter we paid a dividend of $0.31 per share a full-year payout ratio of 34%.
In addition we purchased 12.7 million shares for $642.4 million.
For the full year we repurchased nearly 28 million shares for $1.5 billion which was partially funded by the $750 million debt issuance in July.
Looking forward we expect to continue to return excess cash to our shareholders in the form of increased dividends and continued share repurchases.
On slide 18 you will see our overall expectations for 2016.
In 2016 we expect to ship 269 000 to 274 000 motorcycles an increase of approximately 1% to 3%.
We expect first quarter shipments to be approximately down 2% to up 4%.
We expect 2016 global retail sales to grow year-over-year with international retail sales growing at a faster rate than the U.S.
Retail sales will be supported by our increased investments.
Starting this year we have redirected approximately $70 million to drive demand.
We expect our 2016 year-over-year investment in customer-facing marketing to be up 65% and product development to be up 35%.
We expect 2016 worldwide retail sales will face headwinds as the competition continues to be aggressive with discounting and new product introductions.
We also anticipate global macroeconomic challenges including weakness in oil-dependent areas.
Internationally various markets are experiencing economic challenges.
In particular Brazil we expect the significant pressure to continue.
In response to the nearly 50% devaluation of the Brazilian real last year we have raised prices over 20% in 2016 and expect sales to be down for the full year.
U.S.
dealer retail inventory is expected to be up at year-end 2016 driven by the addition of new models this year.
For the full year 2016 we expect operating margin for the Motorcycles segment to be between 16% and 17%.
We believe 2016's gross margin as a percent of revenue will be down year-over-year.
We expect a favorable impact from motorcycle pricing and strong productivity gains and we expect unfavorable foreign currency exchange unfavorable mix and higher year-over-year startup costs as we implement our ERP solution at our Kansas City plant.
To dimensionalize the foreign currency exchange risk if currencies held at yesterday's exchange rates for the remainder of 2016 we estimate that our expected full year Motorcycles segment revenue would be adversely impacted by approximately 1%.
We would expect an unfavorable impact to gross margin of approximately $60 million driven by lower revenues and lapping last year's hedge benefits and unfavorable impact to gross margin by approximately one full percentage point.
Looking at SG&amp;A while we will invest a significant amount more in marketing and product development we expect full year spending to be flat to up modestly from 2015.
As a percent of revenue we expect SG&amp;A will decrease.
During the first quarter we expect SG&amp;A to be up roughly $25 million versus prior year as we ramp up our demand driving marketing.
For HDFS we expect operating income will be down modestly in 2016 compared to 2015 as a result of increased borrowing costs and unfavorable credit losses partially offset by higher revenues.
Capital expenditures in 2016 are expected to be between $255 million and $275 million as we increase investment in product development focused on bringing exciting new products to market and as we continue to invest in our systems infrastructure most notably the implementation of an ERP system.
Finally we expect our full year 2016 effective tax rate will be approximately 34.5%.
While results fell short of our expectations during the year we maintained a strong gross margin percent increased dividends and repurchased $1.5 billion in shares.
We're excited about 2016 and have a clear path forward.
We're prepared to navigate through the challenging environment and making investments to drive demand grow our business and achieve our goals.
Thank you for your investment in Harley-Davidson.
Now I'll turn it over to Matt.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
In October we laid out our plans for how we intend to increase our focus investment and resolve to drive demand in 2016 and beyond.
Today I'll elaborate and provide more color on the steps we're taking to build stronger and deeper connections with our loyal current customers and reach and win new customers riders and non-riders alike.
Before I talk about our plans and the results we expect I think it's important to share some of my context on the macro level.
2015 was a challenging year.
Yet despite our challenges we were successful in a number of key areas areas foundational to our forward plans to leverage not only who we are but what we've proven works to deliver a highly personal and authentic Harley-Davidson Experience.
The Harley-Davidson Experience in brand are distinct and uniquely powerful.
Without a doubt we're currently in the most competitive environment we've seen in years particularly in the United States much of it is driven by currency and some of it by new products from competitors all around the world.
We've always said that product competition is good for the entire industry.
It keeps us all on our toes and ultimately the customer wins.
To be blunt we want customers to choose Harley-Davidson and we are more motivated than ever to deliver our best for them.
We're not expecting the underlying conditions to improve or the competitiveness to diminish.
So we've taken and we'll continue to take steps necessary to retain and grow our leadership position and our share of the markets we serve even as we continue to expand into new markets.
We're already encouraged by the early results of our demand driving investments that we began in earnest in Q4 of last year.
Although our dealers' retail motorcycle sales were down in aggregate in 2015 as John noted we held our ground on U.S.
market share in the fourth quarter and saw very favorable trends as key new products hit the marketplace and we began ramping up our marketing investments heading into 2016.
Performance in the United States going forward is mission critical and so is achieving a leadership position internationally.
Among the real bright spots in 2015 was our performance in our Asia-Pacific region where we had our best year ever for retail registrations overall and our fifth consecutive year of growth.
In Australia we drove Harley-Davidson to the number one share position for on-road registrations of all displacements with the Street 500 playing a key role not only in those results but in serving as a Learner Approved Motorcycle for that market.
In Canada the successful transition of our business to a direct distribution model with our own management and strategy for the Canadian market resulted in a 12.3% increase at retail in the quarter.
Behind these efforts are the best employees in the industry people who come to work every day looking for better ways to serve our customers and drive demand for our products.
On the Canadian transition for example our team completed a smooth and silent transition to direct distribution.
On the manufacturing side we worked together with the IAM to reach a new six-and-half year labor agreement in York which ensures the continued strength of our manufacturing operations and our ability to be responsive to our customers globally.
These are just a few examples of the momentum we're building together through our focus on performing as a company and driving demand.
We know we have more to deliver and more to prove.
That's our aim.
That's our plan.
So let's talk about that plan in 2016.
In managing our powerful brand we will continue to keep supply aligned with demand but we are now challenging ourselves to more aggressively work the demand side of that equation.
Our objectives are clear and they are aligning and motivating our entire company.
Number one lead in every market.
Two grow the sport of motorcycling in the United States in part by growing the number of core customers and growing U.S.
outreach at a faster rate.
Three grow U.S.
retail sales and grow international retail sales at a faster rate.
Four grow revenue and grow earnings at a faster rate through 2020.
And five outperform the S&amp;P 500.
As we've shared with you before to achieve these objectives we've substantially increased our investments in marketing and product development focused on four key areas: First increasing product and brand awareness.
Second growing new ridership in the United States.
Third increasing and enhancing brand access.
And four accelerating the cadence and impact of new products.
Since October we've been ramping up our efforts to give us a running start into the New Year.
We've not only increased our investment in driving demand; we've increased our focus to have greater impact.
We've built capabilities based on deeper insights to drive greater precision in our marketing and how we and our dealers nurture relationships with current and prospective customers alike.
Last year in our EMEA region for example we increased Touring sales and Touring share by exposing riders to the distinct advantages and capabilities of our RUSHMORE line.
We also generated awareness for our 2016 Cruisers.
As a result of our King of all Test Rides campaign we generated 600 000 web visits a 100 000 test rides and delivered progress at retail as the year advanced.
So we're building on the success in EMEA as well as other markets as we move into 2016 demonstrating the cool the comfort the power and the grace of our products continues to be one of the best levers in driving sales and we're going to be doing more of it.
To grow the sport of motorcycling in the United States we're increasing our investment in our Riding Academy programs and giving more people reasons and opportunities to learn to ride.
We recently extended the highly successful and powerful Learn to Ride for Free program to current and former members of the U.S.
military and first responders through all of 2016.
We also plan to increase new Riding Academy U.S.
dealer points by 18% en route to our goal to grow the number of graduates to 65 000 in 2016 a 35% increase from 2015.
Graduates learning to ride a Harley-Davidson motorcycle at one of our incredible dealerships and we have plans in place to further engage these graduates in our products brand and dealership experiences to convert more of them to new Harley-Davidson owners.
We're also looking to expand new rider training not only in the U.S.
but in other key international markets as well.
Our presence will grow as we reach out engage and connect with more consumers of all demographics riders and non-riders alike.
We will be participating in more events and leveraging our key partnerships in the U.S.
like UFC and X Games and in other ways across each market globally to engage customers in high-energy venues to drive high-yield traffic to our dealerships.
We know that increasing the access to our brand through our outstanding dealerships is a demand catalyst.
That's why we've steadily continued to both enhance and expand the dealer network adding 40 new dealer points globally in 2015 including in China India Thailand Vietnam Germany Poland and Mexico.
By 2020 we plan to add 150 to 200 dealerships internationally and we continue to work with each and every dealer to enhance the customer experience for every type of customer.
Now let's talk motorcycles.
Our motorcycles and everything we produce must drive passion and excitement in the heart and soul of every rider and every person everywhere who dreams to ride.
As John mentioned last August we introduced the high-octane S-Series Cruisers the Softail Slim S and the Fat Boy S.
Both of these are examples of high-impact motorcycles developed to inspire customers.
These two models were instrumental in driving mid-single digit increase at retail for large Cruisers in the fourth quarter.
Further leveraging the product development capabilities we've built over the past few years with increased investment is all about more great bikes more frequently.
Just yesterday we announced two powerful Cruisers expected to hit dealerships in the spring the Low Rider S and the CVO Pro Street Breakout.
The Low Rider S is the most powerful regular production Dyna Cruiser ever offered by Harley-Davidson and the Pro Street Breakout with its strong drag racing influence adds punch to our custom vehicle operations.
Both are designed to appeal to performance-oriented younger riders and are great additions to our sizeable leadership in the Cruiser category.
We expect these bikes to drive traffic which further drives sales.
So the bottom line we've got resolve.
We've set high expectations for ourselves in 2016 and beyond.
Results will be the measure of our success and I'm confident that we can achieve what we set out to do because we've done it before.
Back in the depths of the recession we challenged ourselves and committed to grow our relevance and reach among outreach customers and we did it.
Over the past five years sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles to outreach customers have grown at a compound annual growth rate of nearly 7%.
In fact in the U.S.
we lead in the sale of motorcycles in every outreach segments that includes African Americans Hispanics women of all ages and young adults between the ages of 18 and 34.
In this all important young adults segment we saw more Harley-Davidson motorcycles to young adults today than we did to the baby boomers when they were young adults.
We're committed to grow ridership and the Street has helped us do just that in the first full year since its launch.
7 out of 10 Harley-Davidson Street Riders were new to the brand and in EMEA that number was nine out of 10.
In India nearly all Street customers were new to the Harley-Davidson brand.
We know what we can achieve when we develop and align and commit to a goal.
We're building on a strong foundation and challenging ourselves to drive demand and increase our impact and appeal even more broadly as we move forward.
These expectations are part of a solid plan that is the result of our experience capabilities and commitment to lead.
We have loyal and passionate customers who would be the envy of any business.
We have this brand and its incredible legacy.
We've got talented and passionate employees and dealers and we got resolve.
Together we've never been more fired up to deliver great things for everyone who wants to be a part of all we do.
Now let's take your questions.
Your first question comes from Felicia Hendrix from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Thank you so much.
So I just wanted to start out I have some questions on inventory.
John in your prepared remarks you did say that you were going to build inventory in 2016 also your balance sheet inventory increased 31%.
So I was just wondering if you could provide us with some details on what was in your balance sheet inventory and why there was that large increase.
And then also I understand that you're excited about the new models and they've been getting traction but just wondering how you can get comfortable with the plan to build inventory given the macro and the competitive challenges that you face and then also the strong base of used bikes that are at the dealer level? And just housekeeping question if you could give us the share count at the end of the quarter that would be great? All right.
Thanks Felicia.
Let's start with the balance sheet question.
Is inventory on the balance sheet is up about $137 million and this is driven by three things.
Number one and most predominantly is higher finished goods inventory I'll come back and talk about that in a second.
Secondly is our related business inventory in parts and accessories and general merchandise is up as we look to improve customer service and optimize our product flows to our dealer network.
And then thirdly with the acquisition of Canada we certainly acquired finished goods and parts and accessories and general merchandise inventory with that acquisition.
Getting back to the largest driver of that which is finished goods inventory.
Now we've talked last couple of quarters that we were going to increase production in the fourth quarter.
We got very good at flexible manufacturing and on the previous couple of years we took our production down in the fourth quarter quite significantly and we hit a point of diminishing returns so we wanted to put some production back in the fourth quarter which we've done and certainly reflected in our gross margin for the quarter.
Secondly and that's coincident with the change in our investment profile and significantly increasing the amount of dollars that we're bringing to drive demand and we're pulling that forward very early in the first quarter.
Matter-of-fact we started on some of that in December.
And so what we want to do is to put forward the shipments for the selling season to our dealer network by several weeks.
And so we're coming into the year with a little bit more inventory so that we can get it out to the dealer network and fulfill the inventories with the marketing spending going up.
So we feel very good about where we're at and I'm all ready to start 2016.
The second question was with regards to next year's retail inventory and we said that we'd expect that to be up behind new model introductions.
So Felicia two of those new models were just introduced yesterday.
So similar to this year our inventories were up 2 600 units behind a couple of new incremental models and it just represents the dealer fill for those models and we would expect the same in 2016.
Given the environment that we're in or moving into we feel very comfortable about where we ended our dealer inventories this year.
Matter of fact our dealer network would probably suggest that they would like more inventory.
They would certainly suggest they would like more inventory and we're going to continually aggressively manage supply in line with demand.
Next year is no different and we would expect day sales to be similar to this year for next year.
Next question comes from Craig Kennison from Baird.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question I'll keep it to one.
What are used bike prices looking like at auction today? Thanks Craig.
Used bike prices over the last several quarters have been soft at the auctions.
They've held up much more firmly in our dealer network but in auctions they have been soft and that's what you're seeing in the credit losses.
We've talked about this for several quarters is that there is some softness in prices at auctions and that's increasing some of the losses that we're seeing at auction.
Again in the dealer network through the first three quarters prices were very firm.
We were noting that Touring was up a little bit Sportsters were flat and our Cruisers were down.
As we move into the fourth quarter we are seeing a little bit more softness in the dealer network with prices down slightly.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from James Hardiman from Wedbush Securities.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking my call.
Sort of related line of questioning to Craig.
With respect to new bikes your goal had historically been to align supply and demand and ultimately pricing such that dealers would sell at MSRP.
Can you talk a little bit about deviations from that with regard to your dealer channel? Just hearing more and more grumblings about dealers cutting sizable discounts relative to MSRP.
And then I guess related to that used bike question remind us how you think about sort of the backward looking credit losses obviously we've seen those losses tick up and that's impacted in your guidance for HDFS going forward but at what point do we have to worry about maybe writing down receivables as we look backward in terms of credit losses? Thanks.
I'll start with the second one first James.
We would not expect to write down anything.
The only – those are not our bikes.
What we do is we do inventory a small number of repos as they come in but you're talking a small balance and we mark those.
We mark them every month or every quarter they are marked-to-market.
So we would never expect to have a large write down in terms of the repo inventory that is ours.
Again it's a very nominal amount of bikes that flow through us.
The next question that you asked is with regards to discounting at MSRP in our dealerships.
Our dealers are independent folks and they can offer discounts and some of them do.
What we can do is not allow them to advertise any discounts and that's something that we enforce very much.
We do not condone or want our products to be discounted but as you pointed out James they do at times and they just can't advertise it.
The best thing that we can do is to aggressively manage supply in line with inventory so that we don't create an environment where discounting would be more encouraged.
Your next question comes from Sharon Zackfia from William Blair.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
I guess just a quick question from me.
Just wondering on the thoughts on capital allocation for the company in terms of potentially taking on more debt on the motorcycle company to buy back shares at these levels? Sharon as we sit today we feel comfortable where we're at with regards to the debt that we've taken on.
We always face the balance of that with our credit ratings and given the fact that we've got a finance sub we are looking for top tier credit ratings in commercial paper which we feel is important and managing that balance at this point we feel comfortable with where we're at in terms of the debt.
Your next question comes from Gerrick Johnson from BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning.
You guys recently sent out an offer to select customers for a five-year warranty for $1.
Is this a new initiative? Is this something new that is coming out with your new marketing plan or is this something that you employ regularly? And also Matt there was recently a dealer closing here in New York not far from your hometown.
Can you just talk about the health of the U.S.
dealer base? Thanks.
Yeah.
I'll take both of those.
We're not aware of any extended warranty offering coming from the company.
So that may be a dealer initiative we'll check into that.
The dealer closing I think you're referring to is near Corning New York and this is just the dealer looking at the neighboring network and their prospects.
He was in a facility that was very expensive.
He had a lot of overhead and he decided that it wasn't going to be profitable enough for him.
Our team works on these sorts of issues locally constantly making sure that every dealer is profitable working with the dealer on means and methods to increase their profitability.
If there is a problem we had a lot of this in the kind of 2009 2010 timeframe as volumes dropped.
Generally speaking the health of the dealer network is back to typical levels prerecession but there is always local issues that are dealt with by the field teams.
So there's no structural issue that we see at all.
So thanks for the question.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Pat Archambault from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Yeah.
Thank you.
This is actually Dave Tamberrino on for Pat.
Our question really revolves around the market and what seems to be a positive change in the competitive environment at least more recently.
However we're still a little bit surprised as to why the overall market is not improving.
I think we're approximately 35% below prior peak in U.S.
retail registrations and presumably a lot of the core drivers are improving with high end manufacturing construction wages growing.
Both those are highly correlated with sales.
So the market declined in 4Q 2015 despite these what's your take on why growth is stalled in the market and any perspective on this is really helpful? Thanks.
Thanks Dave.
When we talk about the new bike sales still being under the peak levels I think you had mentioned 35% this is a function of the industry that grew for 20 straight years at a very high CAGR that ended in – peaked in 2006 and with the recession that started in 2007 and 2008 we had a kind of a rebalancing of new-used.
So leading up to that it was about one-to-one relationship.
And after the recession for us it became about 2.5 to 1.
And since then it's been very stable.
I think we're at 2.3 to 1 right now.
We do not expect there to be a bounce back I mean we said this five years ago is that it is just the dynamics of a rapidly growing industry and with that change in the balance of overall new to used for us and the industry we hit equilibrium in the fourth quarter of 2010 and we expect to grow off of that.
But we're not expecting any bounce back in any dramatic way to get back to the previous levels.
We believe we'll get there but it is going to take some time.
Your next question comes from Greg Badishkanian from Citi.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
So my question is just on your assumption behind the 1% to 3% shipment growth globally.
Your assumption in the U.S.
in terms of market share and the industry growth in the upcoming year and then for your marketing initiative (45:00) how much of that's going to impact 2016 versus being more kind of longer term brand building? So thanks Greg.
In terms of the 1% to 3% as we had mentioned we expect international to grow faster than the U.S.
But as we exit 2015 we feel very good about where we're at in terms of turning around and starting to grow next year.
When we look at the fourth quarter we saw the decline worldwide basis come down significantly.
It was running at 1.4% down for the first three quarters and it was only down 0.6%.
And in addition to that very pleased with market share.
We had expected as we got into lapping the onset of the competitiveness that started four quarters ago late in the fourth quarter that we would see market share stabilize and we're very pleased to see it.
So certainly a big turnaround in market share.
In the fourth quarter we were running down at a rate of 3.7 points and we're flat in the fourth quarter and in Europe as well was running down about 1.6% through three quarters and down only 0.6%.
So this is what we would have expected.
As we look forward into 2016 we would expect certainly more stable shares in 2016 versus 2015.
The overall growth in the company is going to be driven by new products.
Model year 2016 is doing very well.
As Matt had mentioned our cruisers are up on a year-over-year basis and we just added two new cruisers to the lineup as of yesterday.
Outreach is doing absolutely fantastic up 6.5% this year growing faster than our core which has been our goal as well as growing at double the rate of the industry.
And then we've got $70 million more marketing spending.
So we realize that our price gaps are larger.
We don't expect them to close because of the discounting.
We expect that to continue but we are bringing a lot more dollars to bear on that to help mitigate the impact of expanded price gaps.
And then finally international expansion.
We added 40 dealers last year most of them in the back half and we'd expect to add similar levels over the next five years and that will drive a lot of our sales.
All of that in the context of much easier comps for us as we go forward into 2016.
So we are excited about 2016 and we're confident in our ability to grow 1% to 3%.
Before we take the next question Gerrick just to follow-up on your question about an extended five-year warranty.
That was – we are doing for select customers through HDFS an extended service promotion which is different than an extended warranty.
So I just wanted to clarify that.
When you said warranty it threw me but ESP is a big part of the portfolio of offerings through HDFS and these are just examples of the spot things we do with certain customer types again just to drive demand.
So thanks just wanted to clarify that.
And also I believe Felicia asked a question of our year-end share count we've got that.
That's 184.7 million outstanding shares.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Rod Lache from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning everyone.
It's actually Pat Nolan on for Rod.
Hi Pat.
Inc.</span></strong> I had two quick ones if I could sneak them in.
Could you just give a little bit more color on the share stabilization in Q4? Were you surprised at the return you got on those initial investments for the customer-faced marketing or do you think there was also some benefit the fact that the market declined your customers are typically a little bit more resilient? So we were not surprised by the market share in the U.S.
or in Europe stabilizing more in the fourth quarter.
It's a function of two things.
Number one is the some of the demand driving activities that we've employed are starting to pay off; our new products are doing what they expected.
And we're lapping the onset of the competitiveness that started a year ago.
And with that and when you dramatically – competition reduces prices fair amount of volume gets pulled forward and that's what we saw last year.
And so now as we're getting into lapping that we're in a much more stable place to start to grow off of.
And so no not a surprise at all the teams are doing a great job.
We mentioned in the prepared remarks one of our large investments that we've chosen to deploy and to grow the industry is offering military folks free Learn to Ride at our Riding Academy programs.
And the results have been fantastic and we're seeing very large growth on a year-over-year basis of graduates buying new motorcycles.
And again Pat these are things that we're doing because we're not discounting and the easiest thing for us to – would've been to do is the discount and so these things are taking a little bit of time but they're starting to pay the fruit of our investment and we're seeing that in the fourth quarter and we expect that to continue on into 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> If I could sneak in on the mix headwinds do we start to lap that as we get into Q2 of this year with the initial launch of the Street I remember mix was a big negative in Q2 of last year and then that should be a more benign drag going forward? So the mix typically will persist not necessarily at the same levels but through to the next model year when we kind of reset.
So what we're seeing here is what we certainly expected is in model year 2016 we invested a lot of new products in our Cruiser lineup.
We brought a lot new – lot of power if you remember we have the 103 high output engine across all of our cruisers and certainly the S models.
So what we're seeing is in the first quarters you're going to see more of a pronounced mix as we ship those into the dealer network because demand is higher for them and we need to ship into that.
But we would also expect to see those that continue to sell well until whatever products we come out at the next model year.
So as we had talked about in our gross margin which we expect to be down one of the reasons for that is unfavorable mix.
So we would expect to see not necessarily the same magnitude as we saw in the first quarter because we're setting up the dealer network with inventory as well but unfavorable mix due to the fact that we're shipping in those cruisers which include the Sportsters that have been redone.
And then we'll see what we come out within in 2017.
But I'll tell you even though the financial aspect is negative on a lot of these bikes as we're bringing in a lot of new customers into Harley-Davidson and a lot of outreach customers so we're very pleased with that investment.
And from a long-term standpoint these are folks that will trade up to higher priced motorcycles much quicker or very quick in the future.
Your next question comes from Tim Conder from Wells Fargo Securities.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Most of these are sort of tweaking of the previous questions.
But John on the inventory situation can you kind of quantify how much was due to the Canadian acquisition? It seemed like it was number three in your list but if you could give us any quantification there that would be great.
And then on FX maybe the degree of hedging that you've done on a year-over-year basis it sounds like it's less year-over-year but any color on that and especially as it relates now to your higher Canadian dollar exposure? And then on used the pricing gap how do you feel about that between new and used and it sounds like you expect that used and new ratio to hold here at about 2.3 I think you said to 1 but do you feel comfortable with the pricing gap on the used to new? Thank you.
Starting out with the third first the overall pricing gap we feel comfortable with in the dealer network as I had mentioned seeing a little bit of softness in pricings in the dealer network.
But by and large we feel comfortable with where we're at.
And yes Tim we would expect to be in that 2.3 range in the overall used-to-new relationship and we'll continue to build off of that.
And we need to grow over time both new and used sales at the same rate.
So we'd expect 2.3 to be where we're at.
The industry has got a higher used-to-new relationship but we'd expect them to be in the same range as well.
And in terms of FX hedging we have a fair amount of hedges on.
We've got a regular program of hedging as we've talked about that hedges are largely in a stair-step fashion.
We have extended that a bit on some of our currencies in particular on the euro given the risk that we face.
But overall we feel very good about what we've got hedged and I talked about in the prepared remarks though if currency rates stay where they are today there will be a sizable currency headwind a lot of that is made up of the gains that we had last year as those hedges at higher or more favorable exchange rates wear off we will have unfavorable variances in gross margin this year because of that.
And then we had mentioned that revenue we would expect to be down about 1%.
With regards to Canada we will bring Canada on with our regular hedging program that we do with all of our other currencies.
The other question was I think on company-owned inventory the amount that was – on Canada I don't have that number.
Overall Tim when we purchased Canada the working capital that we acquired was $10 million.
I don't have the number of inventory in Canada in front of me for the end of the fourth quarter.
Your next question comes from Kevin Milota from JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning everyone.
Just thinking about your longer term objectives here through 2020.
Do you think we can get back to a 3% to 5% shipment growth rate with these marketing efforts that you have in place in the ridership programs that you're working towards? Or is the 1% to 3% shipment growth kind of the new normal on a go forward basis kind of effectively what's underwritten in your 2020 objective? Thank you.
That's a great question Kevin.
Unfortunately we don't provide long-term guidance.
But just three months ago we feel very good about 2016 on the marketing plans that we've got the models that we're bringing to market.
And we believe that a clear path to 3% to 5% growth.
So one of the questions is well why are we at 1% to 3% today and how does that bode going beyond 2016 into the future? And basically what we've tempered from just three months ago is we still feel just as confident about our plans for 2016.
Our expectation – the fourth quarter finished right on expectations.
We're seeing the improvement that we needed to launch into 2016 the turnaround just to growth all of that's in place.
Also we're recognizing with the 1% to 3% is the increased risk in the macroeconomic trends both in the United States and around the world.
A lot has changed in those three months whether it be oil prices the slowdown in China geopolitical issues around the world and we're simply recognizing that change.
And as the macroeconomics improve we'll see what 2017 and 2018 brings.
But we feel very good about the underlying strength of our business the sales opportunities as well as the strength that we've seen in our gross margin.
Your next question comes from Jaime Katz from Morningstar.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
You guys mentioned very briefly weakness or changes in demand and the oil patch.
And I'm curious if you'd be willing to add any additional commentary on demand in both Texas and Western Canada and how that has changed year-over-year maybe just comment on the magnitude of that? Yeah Jamie.
Well we can start – we can move around the globe a little bit but starting in the U.S.
we are seeing and noting that in local economies that are dependent on the oil industry that we're seeing some softness in terms of our retail sales.
I don't think that's a surprise to anyone.
And in addition we're seeing higher delinquencies on some of the loans that are there and I'm working to change some of our underwriting or tweak some of our underwriting to address that.
Within the United States the oil patch represents a minority of our overall volumes but it is of concern and we've seen it getting a little bit worse over the last several quarters.
We still believe it's manageable as we move into 2016.
When you look at Canada Russia the Middle East and various other parts around the world are being affected by low oil prices and I think quite understandably a lot of those folks are losing their employment and – or are concerned about their employment and are slowing down on their spending.
But again we've taken that into consideration with our overall guidance and still expect to be able to grow in 2016.
Your next question comes from Joseph Spak from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I guess what would be helpful in response to the question maybe two questions ago was if you could give us your industry retail assumption for the U.S.
So it sounds like that was the reason for the caution from the 3% to 5% to the 1% to 3% but I think some underlying industry information would be helpful.
And then the second question is really on CapEx.
It looks like this is now a couple of years here of higher CapEx.
Is that a new normal level we should think of beyond 2016 maybe you could give us a sense of at least for this year what's maintenance what's growth CapEx? Okay.
With regards to industry retail sales Joe we do not provide a forward-looking forecast for that.
Certainly we see more caution just given the overall macroeconomic trends but we don't provide a forecast.
We can say that over the last five years the industry has grown pretty steady at about 3%.
This year was no different.
Overall industry was up 4.8% but when you remove autocycles which we don't believe competes with the traditional motorcycle segment the industry was up about 2.8%.
So this year was right in line with the previous three years.
What I can say is is that as we enter into 2016 we would expect the first quarter or two the industry to be down as they lap or our competitors lap the kind of the growth that they experienced early on in the discounting cycle and some of the pull forward volumes that they enjoyed.
This year the industry growth was driven by the front half and again the pull forward of volume into the first couple quarters.
But overall we're in an environment that we believe we can grow our worldwide shipments by 1% to 3% but I'm not going to provide a number on the industry.
The second question was on CapEx.
Our CapEx guidance for this year is $255 million to $275 million.
The actual CapEx during the year was $260 million and as you noted Joe was up a bit and that is driven by two things.
One is new product development.
We've talked about that a quarter ago that we're increasing our new product spending which hits SG&amp;A the expense side of it by 35%.
Well there's certainly a corresponding part of that for us to develop those motorcycles a fair amount of capital that goes into that and you're seeing that reflected in our guidance.
And then secondly as we continue to extend our ERP solution we're moving it to Kansas City.
We're very excited about that.
If you remember about three years ago we put a system in York and it has done a fantastic job for us in terms of helping drive sustainable productivity.
So that is another big area of capital spending this year.
So on some of these things you're going to see from year-to-year capital go up and down depending on what we might be working on in terms of systems upgrades or new product development.
But we're not going to provide a long-term view of overall capital.
Your next question comes from Joe Hovorka from Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks guys.
Just one quick question.
The Rider's Academy was there any influence on retail in the quarter? I know in the past we've had some incremental bikes go into that and those are counted as retail.
Thanks.
Joe I don't know the number of bikes that may have gone in.
Whatever it would be it would be very small.
We did the re-fleeting in 2014 so everyone at that time received all new bikes in the Rider Academy program.
So every once in a while they're going to swap out a bike or move one and sell it as used and move a new one in.
That would be a very small number.
And now that you mention it I would point out that when you look at our overall retail sales for the year and 2015 was a difficult year and we certainly fell short of expectations.
But in the vein of keeping it all in perspective our retail sales were down 1.3% on the year.
But when you do adjust for that re-fleeting of motorcycles that went into the Rider Academy with our new Street 500 motorcycles in 2014 retail sales were down only 0.4%.
And while these results are certainly disappointing to us we did achieve it in the face of some of the most significant shifts in world currencies that we've ever seen and unprecedented levels of discounting where 95% of our competition certainly gained a competitive or price advantage of up to 20% to 30%.
So with that overall tough year retail sales were only down 0.4%.
We did it all without damaging the brand by succumbing to discounting.
We did it by growing gross margin in the face of incredible headwinds.
We remain highly disciplined on managing our retail inventories and we did it without violating our customer's trust and loyalty.
And so just had to get that off my chest.
It's been a tough year but I think that keeping it all in perspective is the competition threw the best that they can muster and overall retail sales were down 0.4% and I know there's some skepticism out there whether we can grow next year.
But given the year that we've had this year all the things that we've realigned to compete into 2016 the money we're bringing to bear the new products that we're bringing to bear including the two we just came out with the $70 million of incremental spending the international expansion again we feel great about our business.
We feel great about moving forward into 2016 and we feel great about our ability to grow in 2016.
I know that's more than you asked for.
Your next question comes from David MacGregor from Longbow Research.
Your line is open.
Yeah.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Matt I guess you talked a lot about the Rider Academy it seems pretty central to the plan.
What are the levers that are at your control to improve the conversion rate there and just get that rate up? And then I guess the second question for John on HDFS.
With respect to the provisions for retail motorcycle loan losses in an extended competitive environment how far are you willing to let the annual loss experience grow? Thanks.
Okay.
Thanks for the question.
So I – it's clear we have said it in our objectives and our focus areas increasing ridership growing the Sport motorcycling in the United States and the Riding Academy being a very key lever to that and there are two real dimensions of it.
One is the number of dealers that offer the Academy.
The power of having riders learn on a Street – Harley-Davidson Street motorcycle that's available for sale.
I have personal experience that my wife took the Riding Academy in the summer of 2014 on the Street 500 and I tried to get her to buy a Softail because I really wanted to get another motorcycle that I would also ride and she wanted a Street 500 because she learned to ride on a Street 500.
And so that's what she got.
So when you just take that sample size of one around the confidence that a new rider has in having really great training and care and support from the dealer and a product they can buy to extend their learning while they are out on the road it's an incredibly powerful mechanism for us to grow the Sportster motorcycling in the United States and grow the number of riders.
So we're going to add more dealers as we mentioned and we're going to work with the dealers on what best practices are out there that can be deployed to increase the conversion rate.
We have 700 independent dealers in the United States.
They are all on Harley-Davidson.
They're passionate about what they do.
They're working every day on ways to improve their business.
Our teams are visiting 100 dealerships a day in the United States.
They're are picking up these best practices that are being incubated by dealers around the nation and we're expanding and using that insight and those positive experiences to help other dealers improve as well.
And Riding Academy is going to be one of these things that we're going to continue to incubate and improve not only the number of points but that conversion rate all in the spirit of exposing more people of how awesome it is to ride and how awesome it is to ride on a Harley-Davidson and to have that experience through our great dealerships.
So David the second question was with regards to the provision.
We exited the year at 1.42% in terms of credit losses.
This is under the ten year average it's under our expectations of what – we would expect it to rise next year.
None of this is out of line with what we've expected none of it is out of line with what we've priced our models at.
And it's things that we would expect as subprime we took down during the recession and it's coming back to normalized level and so are the losses.
We feel very good about where we're at.
In terms of overall profitability at HDFS we're still near record highs in terms of overall profitability.
So we would expect that number to continue to normalize but feel very comfortable about what we're at with credit losses at HDFS.
And your final question for today will come from Neel Mehta from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thanks and good morning.
Just very quickly do you have an update on what the repeat cycle for Harley motorcycle purchases looks like today and maybe how that's changed over the last 10 years or so? And then very quickly just back to oil again that was very helpful color.
But I'm wondering if you could provide some figures on HOG sales in oil-patch states namely Texas just to get an order of magnitude on what's happening there? Thanks.
Neel with regards to the repeat purchases in general it's been around a repurchase cycle of about four years.
In the downturn we saw that extend out about a year.
I think it moved about five years.
And as we have introduced new products in particular.
Rushmore we've seen that repurchase cycle shortened again.
And I'm not exactly sure what it's at but it's around 4.5% at this point.
Overall with regards to the oil patch we have seen the losses over the last couple of quarters increase and in the quarter they were up around double digit.
But it's a small percentage of our overall volume.
And so again we're just concerned about it but we're managing it and certainly incorporating that in our view as we look forward.
Great.
Thanks John and thank you every one for your time this morning.
Thank you for your time this morning everyone.
The audio recording and supporting slides will be available at harley-davidson.com.
The audio can also be accessed until February 11 by calling 404-537-3406 or 855-859-2056 in the U.S.
The PIN number is 113-603-42#.
We appreciate your investment in Harley-Davidson.
If you have any questions please contact Investor Relations at 414-343-8002.
Thanks.
Thank you everyone.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.