Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Honeywell First Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Elena Doom Vice President Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Thank you Stephanie.
Good morning and welcome to Honeywell's first quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Here with me today are Chairman and CEO Dave Cote; and Senior Vice President and CFO Dave Anderson.
This call and the webcast including any non-GAAP reconciliations are available on our website at www.honeywell.com/investor.
Note that elements of this presentation contain forward-looking statements that are based on our best view of the world and of our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change and we would ask that you interpret them in that light.
This morning we will review our financial results for the first quarter as well as share with you our expectations for the second quarter and our revised guidance for 2011 and of course allow time for your questions.
With that I'll turn the call over to Dave Cote.
Thanks Elena.
As you saw from our press release last night lots of cabbage this quarter.
We had a tremendous start to 2011.
We had better-than-expected performance across the portfolio yielding EPS above the guidance we provided you early last month.
Sales of $8.9 billion were up 15% and above the high end of our guidance reflecting continued improvement in our end markets growth from new products and geographic expansion.
We generated EPS of $0.88 reflecting an impressive 40% increase over 2010 which was also good as you'll recall.
Segment margins expanded 120 basis points to 14.5% in the quarter reflecting margin expansion in every business.
This really reinforces the quality of our earnings performance volume leverage and continued cost controls while maintaining our growth investments our seed planting for the future.
We generated $433 million of free cash flow in the quarter excluding the $1 billion pension contribution made in January.
In the quarter we had a higher segment profit partially offset by higher working capital to support the sales increases we're seeing in the businesses and the higher CapEx as planned.
Given the strength of our first quarter financial performance and improving end market conditions we are raising our full year guidance.
We now expect earnings in the range of $3.80 to $3.95 a share reflecting a 27% to 32% increase in earnings over the prior year.
The strong momentum we've seen across our end markets is being supplemented by the results of our seed planting initiatives throughout the portfolio.
While our early cycle businesses including the Advanced  materials ACS products and Turbo continue to show record growth our longer-cycle businesses including Process Solutions and UOP are really kicking in with double-digit growth in the quarter.
Aerospace's commercial aftermarket saw spares orders increased 28% significantly outpacing flight hours.
Further our investments and focus in emerging regions are really paying off.
Sales in Asia-Pacific were up strongly reflecting good growth in China and minimal disruption from the situation in Japan in the quarter.
Fortunately all our employees and sites are okay and while we have virtually no direct impact in our businesses from Tier 1 supply chain issues affecting our production we continue to monitor potential future risks from the electronic components that could impact global automotive OE and aircraft production rates.
Our strong quarterly performance and improved outlook for 2011 reinforce that our strategy is working.
Having great positions in good industries the power of One Honeywell our consistent focus on improving every year in each of our 5 initiatives the seed planting it really does make a difference.
With that I'll turn it to Dave.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Good morning everyone.
Let's go to Slide #4  entitled Financial Summary.
To start at the top again reported sales of 15% to $8.9 billion 11% organic growth in the quarter so another strong organic growth quarter for Honeywell.
We saw greater-than-expected growth in every region the Americas and Europe were both up 10% China and India were up 23% and 43% respectively.
Acquisitions in the quarter contributed 3% growth.
Currency was a slight tailwind that rounded to just 1%.
Segment profit up 25%.
Segment margins just terrific 14.5% reflecting good conversion in the quarter.
And as I take you through the business highlights you'll see the businesses are doing a terrific job managing in this higher inflationary environment while also continuing to invest for growth.
Earnings per share at $0.88 were up 40% over the same period last year considerably higher than the estimate that we gave you back in March.
And just a couple of comments on that.
The better-than-expected earnings performance was driven by higher sales better conversion in the quarter primarily in Specialty Materials also Commercial Aerospace and our short cycle ACS products businesses.
Repositioning spend in the quarter was $44 million net.
That was 100% funded by below-the-line gains mainly the sale of the Automotive Sensors business.
In addition we absorbed a $29 million charge in the quarter related to the early redemption of debt that otherwise would have matured in 2012 a smart move lowering our overall interest expense carry and you saw the evidence of that in the very successful bond offering in the first quarter.
Free cash flow came in as expected.
Dave mentioned that $433 million in the quarter reflecting higher working capital to support online growth and also higher CapEx investment.
Dave I think it's probably fair to say the only thing we would say that was disappointing to us at all in the quarter was just inventory and that we've got opportunities as we go through the year now that we know that's going to work itself out.
Convert that to sale.
Absolutely.
Let's go out now and go to the businesses.
Let's start with Slide #5 with Aerospace.
Aerospace sales were up 8% in the quarter to $2.7 billion driven by strong commercial growth primarily offset by lower Defense and Space sales.
Sales in the quarter were approximately $100 million higher for Aero than our latest forecast with much of the overdrive driven by higher airline spares and also OE selectables in the quarter.
And I'll talk a little bit about that in just a moment.
Segment profit for Aero up 13% with margins up 80 basis points to 17.3%.
Now Commercial OE sales increased an impressive 25% driven by robust ATR build rates and also the higher win rates that we've had with airlines on buyer finished equipment or BFE selectables.
We have also benefited from a rebound in BGA from near trough levels last year.
So BGA was up over 50% in the quarter from the very depressed first quarter 2010 levels driven by strong positions in our mid-to-large cabin class airlines.
The Commercial aftermarket sales were up 14% for Aero in the quarter.
That reflected higher aircraft utilization rates and also continued strong spares orders.
Just a couple sub-points on that.
First air transport regional flight hours were up approximately 5.8% in the quarter 1 point higher than our original forecast.
Now we don't expect that pace of growth to continue through the rest of the year given the lingering effects of higher oil prices and also the Japan disruptions but we still expect flight hours to grow about 5% for the year partly a function of robust delivery schedules again also the increase in utilization of the existing fleets.
Regarding spares the Commercial aftermarket spares are up 28% in the quarter following the fourth quarter increase of 25%.
Spares orders continue to outpace flight hours given the deep declines we saw during the recession time frame.
However we expect the year-over-year growth rate to start to moderate over the course of the year due to comps.
R&amp;O for the quarter was up 6% in line with utilization rates.
And more importantly we're starting to see engine events increase year-over-year and expect to see more repairs over the next couple of quarters.
Defense and Space sales were down 3% in the quarter due to lower T-55 helicopter engine sales internationally and also various program ramp downs as expected partially offset by higher engineering sales in the quarter.
Now given the recent headlines we continue to plan and this is just a reiteration of what we've talked about before for further U.S.
Defense budgetary pressures and reprogramming and we reiterate our forecast for low single-digit Defense and Space revenue decline in 2011.
So that's the summary of Aero.
Let's go to Slide 6 Automation and Control Solutions.
As you could see ACS sales up 17% in the quarter slightly better than expected 7% organic reflecting 4 consecutive quarters now of consistently strong organic growth for ACS of 7% plus.
Acquisitions mainly Sperian had foreign exchange contributed to sales adding 10% growth versus the first quarter of '10.
ACS had good geographic growth of 7% organically in the Americas and 30% plus in China and India.
Now as guided ACS sales conversion in the quarter was 14% growing segment margins 20 basis points to 12.6% reflecting strong volume increases in productivity partially offset by inflation and the investment for growth across the portfolio and the dilutive impact of M&amp;A including ongoing factory transitions affecting manufacturing yields.
In the second half of '10 when the recovery in our end markets really started to take shape ACS increased their investments in line with increased orders in the second half of 2010 and ahead of the subsequent sales curve on longer cycle projects in building solutions as well as further seed planting investments to pursue an array of new global energy efficiency projects.
All of these are expected to yield incremental top and bottom line benefits over the remainder of 2011.
So as we lap these investments in the second half of the year we expect to see sales conversion for ACS of approximately 30% or in the range of 20% to 25% for the full year and again consistent with prior guidance.
Just a couple of points on the mix of business within ACS in the quarter.
The product sales were ahead of expectations.
They were up 21% on a reported basis 9% organic reflecting strong performance across the products portfolio.
Businesses linked to industrial production saw continued strong orders and sales growth supported by increases in manufacturing and also the favorable impact of increased safety regulations.
China sales were up 30% organic led by HVAC and lighting controls.
India saw 47% growth and the biggest gains in security and fire systems with increased reach to Tier 2 in 3 cities.
And despite continued weakness in the residential and commercial construction markets of ACS we are encouraged by the rebound in the North American Fire Systems business the HVAC Controls business and also the Security business with good uptick of new products in particularly on the retrofit side of the business.
Now the Solutions businesses were up 10% reported 4% organic in the quarter.
They have double-digit reported growth in Process Solutions as we execute on large global project backlog.
The Building Solutions business continues to build backlog with retrofit activity across both commercial and institutional verticals.
HBS the Building Solutions business continues to leverage ACS' premier energy efficiency and Smart Grid portfolio to expand in new markets having won 2 Smart Grid projects now in China.
In total the Solutions business backlog the entirety of the process of Building Solutions backlog in the quarter was up over 20% year-over-year.
So given that review of HBS let's go to Slide 7 Transportation Systems.
In the quarter TS was up 19% driven by volume increases primarily Turbo and friction partially offset by a slightly lower sales in CPG.
Now Turbo continues to outperform the quarterly industry macros of approximately 5% growth in European light vehicle production and a 7-point increase in Western European diesel penetration.
Honeywell Turbo's performance reflects their high win rate on attractive new Turbo gas and Turbo diesel platforms and the flawless execution of these new launches globally.
To put it in perspective in 2011 we expected about 1/3 of Turbo's growth to come from favorable industry macros and about 2/3 to come from new launches.
We expect growth trends in Turbo to continue strong although moderating over the course of the year despite supply chain issues minor supply chain issues affecting the second quarter and affecting global automotive OE production.
And we have accounted for these minor disruptions in our guidance in the second quarter that I'm going take you through in just a moment as well as for the rest of the year.
CPG sales were down slightly driven by lower Prestone sales due to more inclement weather conditions during the first quarter.
Overall segment profit was up 50% for Transportation Systems.
Margins up 240 basis points to 12% again driven by volume increases at Turbo partially offset by higher commodity cost.
Let's now go to SM Specialty Materials.
They just had a phenomenal quarter.
Tremendous start to 2011 for SM due to continued strong demand in the Advanced Materials business and also double-digit growth in the quarter in UOP.
The first quarter revenues were up 19%.
Segment margin was at an all-time record of 21%.
Now the substantial increase in segment margin was driven by higher sales reflecting favorable price over raw material spreads strong commercial excellence as well as continued productivity across the business.
Now given the volatile commodity markets SM is benefiting from price increases commensurate with rising raw material input prices that began significantly in the second half of 2010.
Now as we lap these increases in later quarters we're going to see lower sales conversion.
So given these dynamics plus the normal seasonality of the Refrigerants business and the lumpy mix of business at UOP we're planning SM margins in the range of 17% to 18% for the year.
And I think already that compares to previous guidance of 16.4% to 16.7% for SM.
We're also planning for SM to continue to invest for growth in strong reliability which will also affect their second-half sales conversion.
In the second quarter sales at UOP were up 13% with higher licensing revenue recovery and refining catalysts and also growth in services related to the start up of the front-end engineering and design work or FEED work for Petrobras.
UOP is expected be one of the company's key contributors.
As we proceed in 2011 we'll be one of the key contributors to organic growth for the company with growth in the upper teens driven by a strong order book and also its growing pipeline of global energy projects.
Now the Advanced Materials business at SM revenues in the quarter up 22%.
Revenues across the group are up strong double digits.
Just to give you some color on that.
Resins and Chemicals up 25% on strong global demand for caprolactam and resins.
Fluorine products up 25% driven by strong demand for refrigerants tight industry supply conditions and also strong plant performance.
And Specialty Products was up an impressive 15% with above market growth led by penetration of new product introductions in advanced fibers specialty additives as well as in industrial products.
So a great start to the year for Specialty Materials.
It's a credit to the team.
They're deploying commercial excellence.
They're investing in innovation their globalized sales force and also reliable plant performance.
Now given the significance of SM to the quarter and our assumptions for the business for the remainder of the year I'm going to come back spend a little more time on that when we review the updated guidance for Honeywell overall in a moment for the full year 2011.
First though let's go to Slide 9 and talk about our outlook for the second quarter.
We're planning for total sales in the second quarter to be in the range of $9.1 billion to $9.4 billion up 12% to 16% from last year reflecting continued good organic growth.
Earnings per share we expect to be in the range of $0.94 to $0.98 up approximately 29% to 34% year-over-year.
We expect Aero sales in the quarter -- in the second quarter to be in the range of $2.8 billion to $2.9 billion reflecting continued commercial aftermarket strength and also the ongoing rebound in BGA OE.
Now these of course are going to be partially offset by lower sales in defense.
For ACS we expect sales in the range of $3.8 billion to $3.9 billion extending the positive momentum from the first quarter with continued organic growth across the portfolio the execution of solutions' strong backlog and a continued benefit of the Experion and Matrikon acquisitions that we made in 2010.
For Transportation Systems in the second quarter sales are estimated to be $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion.
It reflects the continued momentum of new launches from the first quarter as well as our estimate of global automotive supply chain disruptions emanating from the Japan crisis.
Now we conducted -- just a little bit of color on that we've conducted a thorough review of our potential exposures by OEM and we're confident that the impact in the quarter the second quarter for Turbo will be very minimal and the risk is reflected in our volume forecast in the quarter.
So we think very manageable and incorporated in our outlook.
With that in mind we are expecting TS sales growth in the range of 12% to 16% and we'll continue to monitor of course the business as we go forward.
At Specialty Materials we anticipate sales in the range of $1.4 billion to $1.5 billion driven by growth projects services and catalysts sales at UOP.
We also expect anticipate continued healthy end markets in Advanced Materials with continued growth good growth out of Asia both in fluorines and resins and chemicals.
So another strong quarter anticipated with sales and earnings delivering a similar growth profile as we just delivered in the first quarter.
Let's go now to Slide 10.
The financial guidance summary for the full year.
Here we've got summarized our updated guidance reflecting the strength that we've experienced in the first quarter and again our best view of the balanced set of risks and opportunities that are ahead of us for the remainder of the year.
Let's go through a couple of the highlights.
As Dave said we've increased our sales outlook for the year to $36 billion to $36.6 billion.
This excludes the impact of a potential discontinued operations accounting treatment for CPG that we anticipate later in the year.
Now regarding the CPG divestiture we're anticipating a third quarter close.
So for planning purposes and to kind of keep it simple for tracking purposes we're assuming CPG is in our revenue and our earnings numbers for the first 6 months of 2011 and out of our numbers for the second half of the year.
Our revised earnings guidance also reflects a higher euro assumption.
We're now looking at a euro to dollar in the 1.35 to 1.40 range.
This has added approximately $350 million to our full year of sales estimate at this time.
So what that translates to is an organic increase of approximately $500 million.
That's the spread and that's spread across all of our business segments.
Now with respect to Specialty Materials we expect to see normalization and more normal supply-demand condition in the Advanced Materials business as we progress through the year and therefore pricing and spreads in the second half to come down lowering both SM's organic growth as well as the very high sales conversion that we experienced in the first quarter.
So given the dynamics we've highlighted in SM in the first half as well as the absence of CPG in the second half these two clearly cloud the normal linearity that we would have for Honeywell in 2011.
So with the organic growth profile we've laid out for the remainder of the year and the majority of our businesses having recovered to prerecession levels we're confident in our revised outlook for the year.
And it's important to point out again that we'll continue to assess the uncertainty surrounding the global macro environment the situation in Japan the volatility in the commodity and foreign exchange markets.
But as we sit here today we feel we're appropriately balanced in our planning assumptions assuming minimal impact from supply chain disruptions as well as higher material input prices as we progress through 2011.
Now as we've discussed before we're targeting a weighted average fully diluted share count of 795 million shares for the year.
This reflects our latest share repurchase estimate for 2011 which is in the range of about $1 billion and of course also reflects the higher share price assumption for those share buybacks.
So basically we're aiming to keep share count flat with where we ended the year 2010.
And as always we'll continue to evaluate our capital deployment preferences in light of the highest and best value alternatives.
Now given the first quarter's momentum in sales orders and operating leverage this allowed us to confidently take our guidance for 2011 up $0.20 on the low end and up $0.15 on the high end to the new range of $3.80 to $3.95 per share for the year.
In addition we're confirming our free cash flow outlook for the year in the range of $3.5 billion to $3.7 billion prior to any planned U.S.
pension contributions.
So let's now just summarize on the last slide.
Obviously a lot of good news for Honeywell today and a terrific start to 2011.
We saw as Dave said positive upward trends in the orders for all of our business segments.
We're encouraged by the rate of improvement and uptick in Commercial Aerospace.
Both OE and aftermarket orders or spares orders sustaining well above flight hours.
General industrial recovery in the emerging markets continue to be bright spots fueling strong double-digit growth.
Turbo is continuing to benefit from their strong industry position from new platform launches.
However growth as we've said will slow in Turbo and over the course of the year given the projected decline in OE production schedules for the remainder of the year.
And our long-cycle businesses are continuing to accelerate with both Process Solutions and UOP in double-digit growth territory.
We're making further progress obviously on the execution of our strategies in sustaining our growth investments.
We're expecting continued good organic growth strong sales conversion continued traction on commercial and R&amp;D effectiveness all the while still controlling our fixed cost effectively through OEF and other disciplines.
So to put this in perspective and capsulize we're now looking at about a 30% earnings growth in 2011 the midpoint of our guidance underscoring the organization's ability to be a top-tier performer with a balanced performance from both our short- and long-cycle businesses.
All of that delivering above-average growth and continued margin expansion.
We think the revised outlook for the year reflects a balanced view of the global economic environment including where we see strength and where we see opportunities continued opportunities across the portfolio.
So our operating strategies are working.
Our capital deployment plans including the share buyback that we talked about further strengthens the company's outlook for 2011 and obviously continues to build a very solid foundation for terrific future growth for Honeywell.
So in closing a terrific quarter a very positive update to the full year with earnings expected in the range of up 27% to 32% over last year.
Clearly the second half will have quite the same profile for a variety of reasons.
However we feel our sales margin and EPS guidance that we communicated today is very strong and represents again a terrific performance and terrific outlook for the company for the year.
So with that Elena let's turn it back over to you for Q&amp;A.
Great Dave.
Thanks.
Stephanie if you can open the line.
We'll take our first question and would ask that we try to answer as many Q&amp;A as possible and we'll plan to stop at 10:30.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Scott Davis from Morgan Stanley.
Not too much to pick on for sure solid quarter overall.
I just wanted to focus a little bit on the working capital and the inventory issue.
And I think the heart of my question relates more to HOS and that's when you put up an 11% core number which is probably the highest you guys have had in 20 years does it put a lot of projects on hold and make it really difficult to manage working capital and push HOS forward? Or is this more of a strategic decision to just build inventory ahead of price increases and obvious demand that's going to pull through the rest of the year? I think it's more of a case Scott where we might just got a little ahead of where we see the sales going.
And I fully expect all this to convert and then will get us get -- as they do a better job there than we did in this first quarter.
So that's all it is.
HOS is still going along swimmingly.
So HOS isn't harder to do in a higher-volume environment? Is that fair to say? Yes it's not going to -- I suppose you could say it puts some pressure on having to do 2 things at the same time.
But it's not the first time our guys have been confronted with something like that.
Just like you could say is the recession a tougher time to be getting HOS done because you got all kinds of cost pressures.
We did it then.
It's just a different kind of problem you have to manage.
That's all.
Sure.
Guys your Specialty Materials business was the biggest delta versus our model and that business has just been -- it was not many years ago I was telling people it would never be a 10% margin business and now you're over 20%.
So...
I need to revisit some statements you're making today Scott? You know how to answer.
Right sometimes wrong more often.
I wanted to get into UOP a bit and my question is both I need to be educated and also just to understand what's going on here.
I mean it's up 13%.
You made a comment later in the presentation that the project business part.
I assume that's a little bit of a lower margin than the reload.
I mean is there a full-fledged catalyst reload cycle that's beginning here? Is that what you're seeing? Or is there something -- or something else? I'm trying to get a better feel for visibility on UOP.
I would say we are seeing in particular the refining catalyst in particular.
It's been pretty robust.
And we said once before that -- or I guess when we were in the recession that a lot of those reloads were being extended.
You're starting to see some of the benefit of that.
Dave is there anything you want to add to it? Well I think we saw a good contribution from reloads.
It was the majority of the catalyst sales in the quarter.
It's about 2/3 of the catalyst sales in the quarter.
And I think that trend's going to continue.
And I think standing back from the reloads and just kind of reinforcing what the themes for today is we had good growth in UOP in the quarter but we're going to have even better growth in UOP as we progress through the year.
Yes.
So it's really going to be a leader in terms of when you look at our organic growth.
That's going to be a strong contributor to our organic growth profile over the rest of 2011.
Okay.
That's exactly what I was trying to get.
All right I'll pass it on.
Thanks guys.
And I'll quibble with your headline later Scott.
You got it.
Our next question comes from John Inch from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Dave Anderson just want to sort of square up some of these nonoperating items.
So I think firstly how much was the Sensotec gain?  And I think you said repositioning was $44 million.
What are sort of the other moving parts because repositioning line obviously is $133 million.
Is that where the $29 million of charge was absorbed for early debt retirement? Just maybe you could square off some of these moving parts for us.
Yes well what we had was we had about a $40 million gain pretax gain on Automotive Sensors business.
We also had another minor minor gain during the quarter.
Essentially think of it this way John.
Those gains on sales on nonstrategic business essentially funded the repositioning.
That's sort of a 1-for-1 so just think of it that way.
And then obviously in addition the other thing that we had during the quarter was the debt retirement that we spoke about which is a net positive will be a net positive for us.
When we look forward in terms of the interest expense guidance for the full year we'll benefit from that.
So that was also in the non-operating piece of the quarter.
There really -- Elena I think there was much movement beyond that from the other pieces.
So John in the repositioning in other line item in addition to be $44 million of repositioning that Dave talked about we also had our normal run rate expenses for asbestos and environmental which comprised the $133 million.
And then the gains on sale of businesses were partially offset by the debt redemption costs.
Our strategy hasn't changed here John.
Onetime gains we always use -- we always redeploy and use as a way to make the business better in the future.
I think a good way John to think about that below the line is very clean.
So was the $29 million of debt refinancing was that -- I mean basically was that naked? In other words if you hadn't done that would you have earned $0.91? I think that's accurate.
Okay.
Is the reason Turbo is not affected by Japan even though Japan's creating some global automotive disruption because basically Japanese vehicles aren't really designed with turbochargers? Is that really the issue? Or is there some other factor going on here? I think that's a key contributor John.
I mean that's a very very good point.
I think the other thing and to the degree that we can't really quantify this but it just makes sense that to the degree that Japan built automobiles were in shorter supply.
Obviously that has created an opportunity for some of our customers more significant in terms of Turbo customers to sell their products.
So we're going to see some of that actually as we progress through the second quarter which will mitigate some of the supply disruption that we saw.
The other thing is it's against the backdrop of improved macros overall automotive production up nice a higher diesel penetration stable diesel penetration particularly in Europe and very successful consumer pull very positive consumer pull for Honeywell products.
So automobiles with Honeywell turbochargers.
So we had a number of factors working in our favor and we think will continue to work on our favor.
As I mentioned we're looking at minimal disruption we think in the second quarter probably Elena something like 100 000 units would be our best estimate.
Yes.
So John to build on that comment a little bit turbo penetration in Japan is really less than about 10%.
So reduced production rates at the major Japanese OEMs which is primarily where you're seeing the disruption in the OEM build schedule isn't going to affect us.
I'd say John another thing we don't know yet that we did talk about in the earlier comments just to reinforce is you don't know to the extent that somebody is a Tier 3 or Tier 4 supplier in Japan the Western auto manufacturers and we don't know that yet.
I mean we don't think there's an issue there but we don't know yet.
No that's reasonable.
Can I switch gears to Specialty Materials? Is there an issue that the business kind of is able to price as you suggested because of rising raw costs but it's the near term or it's the current market pricing within higher feedstock prices roll through the pressure margins? Like do you really see sort of that reversal kind of -- especially if oil prices say stop going up or at least seem to have paused but then you get the -- do you get the lagging impact of the raw drive through? Is that what's going on? Or is that not the way to think about it? Well we think about it just a little differently.
The way that I think about it is that we have a fairly significant surge in input costs in the second half of 2010.
This is particularly in our Fluorines Products businesses.
And we smartly procured in advance of or concurrent with those increasing costs.
So we were in a good position coming in the first quarter.
We had an imbalance in terms of supply-demand conditions overall for finished product and that was really on a global basis.
And so we were very well positioned.
We were well positioned in terms of ability to supply into that market.
It gave us particular strength and the imbalance if you will created we think a non-sustaining -- a level of conversion revenue conversion.
So that's going to be normalized as we progress through the course of 2011.
And what it's going to translate to as we said John is margin guidance for Specialty Materials in the range of 17% to 18%.
Very attractive.
I mean still very good run rates but much more where we would have expected.
So it's really that phenomena that really characterized the very positive performance in the first quarter and we hope to see that sustaining.
And just my last question I guess.
It's going back to Japan.
I mean you guys are very large -- between your 2 businesses Norcross and Sperian.
You're a very large supplier of the personal protection gear and so forth.
As horrible as the tragedy has been is there an incremental opportunity that's potentially meaningful that you could sell some of these products into the Japanese market or make some penetration gains or something like that? I'm just curious if there's any sort of -- you talked about sort of the Turbo somewhat benefiting directly.
What about on those businesses specifically? I would say if there's something there John it's not enough to move the needle.
I would say it's given us some very nice publicity for our T-Hawk  that remote-controlled helicopter which as you know has been used extensively there now to be able to take pictures and do it in high radiation areas.
And I think we're going to see more attention there.
But even there I wouldn't say it's going to move the needle.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Appreciate it.
You're welcome.
Our next question comes from Jeff Sprague from Vertical Research.
I was wondering if we could just drill a little further into Aero.
The first part of my question is just thinking now as we're kind of on the eve of a pretty significant ramp now in large commercial OE volumes how to think about how margins play.
Obviously you've got underlying structural cost improvements but that aftermarket OE mix starts to work against in the not-too-distant future.
Should margins still be able to drift off in that environment? Yes I think so.
And we're holding guidance obviously for the full year in terms of Aero overall.
What we're going to see I think John is that in the Aerospace it's actually in the near term we're going to see the continued benefit of the continued recovery in the Aerospace commercial aftermarket.
That's going to be a tailwind for us.
As we progress through the year we're going to also be spending a little bit more in terms of R&amp;D as a result of the major program wins and the success that we've have.
So the balance of those two is really what translates to the consistency in terms of the margin rate expansion that we think will be there or the marked consistency in terms of margin guidance that we've given you for the full year.
The other thing that we'll have when you look at it on a year-over-year basis as you will recall we had fairly sizable launch contributions in business aviation in the second half of last year.
It will be -- within the second half of this year we will be lapping that period.
We won't have those.
So first quarter there was essentially no change first quarter of '10 first quarter of '11 no change in contributions for BGA and we'll have that as a positive as a tailwind as we progress through the year in Aerospace.
I'd also add Jeff that like all our businesses there's opportunity to get operationally better here and each business continues to just get better and better quarter-by-quarter.
And then just thinking about the aftermarket specifically.
Obviously there's a lot of analysis done by you guys during the downdraft kind of nailed down the disconnect between flight hours and inventories at the airlines.
You said R&amp;O has kind of equalized.
Do you think actual physical spare parts have now kind of equalized the inventory levels that make sense relative to what flight hours are? Well I think what we're seeing is -- let me give you maybe a little bit of or complicated answer to that question.
Number one as we said Commercial Spares were up 28% in the first quarter and we're expecting Commercial Spares to be up about 20% for the full year.
And that's against the backdrop of an estimated 5% growth in flight hours.
So I would say we're still seeing the recovery and the rebound on the spares side Jeff.
On the other hand when you look at inventory levels compared to overall revenues of the airlines while compared to profitability of the airlines and use that index against historic levels it's not rising.
So what we're seeing is there clearly is a need a catch-up need relative to utilization that we're going to see through the course of this year.
Great.
And then Dave Cote can you just speak a little bit more about just the appetite for M&amp;A here? And also you do have share repurchase obviously on the boards for this year.
You didn't do any in Q1 I guess because of kind of the working capital dynamics in the quarter.
But just how should we think about that balance and how you might toggle between the two over the course of not even just a year but the next 12 to 18 months? I think the way to think about it is the way we always say is it's going to depend upon where the opportunities are.
And if M&amp;A is too rich we're not going to do it.
We haven't lost our discipline there.
And to the extent that we have the reserves and we don't see opportunities then share repurchases come into play.
But at the end of the day we're always going to be opportunistic about what makes the most sense for the company and the share owners.
You always have a pretty big funnel.
I mean is the funnel looking rich? Or is there still things that can get done in this environment? Well the funnel always looks good.
We work pretty hard at keeping up a good-sized funnel.
As we pointed out at the investor conference one of the things that makes us I'd say more adept when it comes to not overpaying is making sure that you have lots of other opportunities.
That being said we're going to continue to be very cautious because it's an area where we like being 10 for 10.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
You're welcome.
Our next question comes from Nigel Coe from Deutsche Bank.
Thanks for releasing those results last night.
That was more help than you can imagine.
Nigel all that credit goes to Elena.
Yes it's a big help.
So I think your inference from the release was that March was a bit much stronger than you expected.
And I'm actually wondering -- obviously there's a lot of chatter about supply chain shortage and I'm wondering if there's any companies building safety buffers in their inventories that might have helped to contribute towards that strength.
I mean are you seeing any -- that companies and customers are starting to build inventories or were building inventories? In other words I think Nigel maybe just rephrasing your question making sure we're capturing it.
Was there any phenomena of the higher-than-anticipated sales particularly as we -- in March as we closed the quarter that could have been driven by or influenced by our customers building inventory? Is that -- did I hear that correctly? Absolutely yes.
Yes.
I would say no.
No.
And certainly we don't encourage that.
I would say that one of the commercial practices we've worked very hard to purge throughout the company going back 8 or 9 years ago.
So we don't encourage that with either terms price anything else.
We certainly don't encourage it and we haven't gotten that sense from our customers.
Our view I'd say probably David it's fair to say a strong view is that we just had underlying very good demand across the portfolio.
You've heard  some of the numbers Nigel.
I mean it's across all of the regions.
Yes I mean it's something I've seen a couple of companies lose inventories.
So I was wondering if those -- maybe even small impact but that's good to hear.
And then second just coming back to SM just looking at obviously 1Q you just had started  lining up.
That was great.
But as you go into 2Q I mean do you expect margins to still be above that 18% range? Or do you think you'll be more -- able to get closer to that higher range? Well as you know we don't provide specific quarterly guidance in terms of individual business units and we provide obviously provide you with full year guidance.
But I think we're going to continue to see pretty good numbers out of SM in the second quarter.
And I would suspect that what we're going to be seeing for SM for the remainder of the year is close to that full year range that 17% to 18% range guidance that I provided you Nigel.
And then finally you got a big gain coming up on CPG probably in 3Q.
You mentioned earlier in the call that your policy is to offset gains with the repositioning.
Do you have enough opportunities and programs to offset that kind of gain? I think the answer is yes.
And as we've done in the past and as Dave is really -- another discipline that he's built into the organization is really ensuring that we're doing high payback on funding.
We really look at things smartly in terms of those -- that redeployment.
And obviously in this case we've had some time to think about it to review different options.
We're still going through that.
But you should expect a smart redeployment overall of those games and looking forward then how that will translate to continued growth continued earnings momentum in a stronger business for '12 '13 et cetera.
And what kind of payback would you expect from that investment? And obviously as you do more structuring to get you through the cycle the payback period extends.
I mean are we looking at -- do you have 2-year paybacks or maybe a bit longer? It will vary.
It will vary by project.
It will vary by specific item.
But we'll provide you with clarity so that you'll be able to translate that into your '12 and '13 thinking.
Great.
Thanks Dave.
You're welcome.
Our next question comes from Steven Winoker from Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> So roughly the 1 question I'm going to have time for is around maybe if you could quantify the material inflation Dave Anderson including component not just raws.
And if you actually think about excluding it I don't know if you can do it the SM benefits from the contract escalators.
I just what I'm trying to get at is what was the real inflation headwind that you faced that you offset with pricing and productivity and other bits and how to think about that going through the rest of the year? Well it was fairly significant in the quarter.
So in total if you take SM included and I know Steve you'd like to exclude it if you took SM in total plus TS for the quarter you're talking about over $200 million in terms of inflationary headwind.
So it was an important element to the quarter to be able to manage that and to be able to offset that in terms of our productivity actions as well as our pricing actions in the quarter to deliver the uptick that we did in terms of segment profitability.
Inc.</strong> And that you said that -- I heard you say Specialty and Transport for the $200 million.
So I assume that's also Aero and ACS? Or is that separate? Yes.
Inc.</strong> That's all in? That's all in.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
All right.
And are you seeing things get harder as you move through the quarter? Yes.
I think we'll see even more challenges.
As we talked about earlier we've got a steepening curve if you will in terms of inflationary pressures.
And in some cases you go back to SM and that's sort of the prominent one we won't have the same supply-demand if you will imbalance that characterized the first quarter.
It's still going to be very attractive but it won't be at that same level that we experienced in the first quarter.
I would add though Steve across the board we're not seeing anything that we didn't anticipate.
Right very good point Dave.
Inc.</strong> All right.
Great.
Thanks everybody.
You're welcome.
Our next question comes from Bob Cornell from Barclays Capital.
You guys referenced the developing strength in the long-cycle businesses in the process building you mentioned North American Fire.
You gave us some color there but everything's going by so quickly.
Maybe you just go back over the prospects there for process building in North American Fire and are you suggesting the North American non-res businesses are going to show signs of life? So maybe just a little more color there on those businesses.
Elena you want to just give us a little bit of detail on ACS? Sure.
So Bob I mean I think what we're seeing is an improvement in residential retrofit primarily in ECC driven by some pent-up demand given that we're in the crux of the home renovation season which really stalled in 2009 and even in the beginning of 2010.
And in addition we're benefiting from some of our share gains on the Combustion Valves business and also in the Security Products business which is contributing to growth in the quarter Bob and we see that obviously sustaining itself.
And then lastly I think you're seeing obviously the benefit on the commercial retrofit side from favorable macro trends in energy efficiency with good pull-through of new products.
It all looks good Bob right across-the-board.
Yes we'll get back into that in more detail after the call.
But actually I was wondering if you look at the 21% margin in Specialty Materials I mean is it fair to say that the Advanced Materials given Dave your comments Anderson about the purchases and the price of the Advanced Materials hit the higher margins and the UOP hit the lower margins in the quarter? Advanced Materials really led the quarter in terms of the sales conversion and was a major contributor to that outperformance if you will.
Yes but if you look forward I mean UOP is going to start to have a ramp up and I guess the big Brazilian project I mean -- in the margin guidance in the second half are you capturing the big ramp of what is probably a breakthrough project for UOP? Yes we've got that built-in.
We had as Dave mentioned $40 million approximately from the Petrobras project in the first quarter.
That's going to -- it's relatively linear over the course of the year relatively even in terms of...
Just think about it as being about worth $150 million for the year.
Yes.
So not quite the run rate of what we had in the first quarter but close to it.
And then UOP is going to as I mentioned Bob earlier it's going to benefit as we convert its strong backlog to revenue over the course of 2011.
We're actually going to see an increase in the top line growth.
We had 13% 14% growth in UOP in the first quarter.
It's going to be well above that as we progress through 2011.
So that will be a catalyst cycle that I think that Jeff alluded to earlier as well as the Brazilian job.
And what else are being contributed to that acceleration in revenues? It's across the board.
It's a projects business as well.
As we mentioned we had a significant strengthening in the backlog of UOP in the second half of 2010.
That backlog continued to grow in the first quarter of 2011.
So it's across the full product portfolio projects business as well as the products of catalyst business of UOP that we'll see the growth in the remainder of the year.
Okay thanks you guys.
You're welcome.
Our next question comes from Ajay Kejriwal from FBR Capital Markets.
Just on emerging markets.
You called out a very spectacular growth in China India I think 30% 47% growth numbers you have mentioned.
So what's driving that? Any specific products or is it across the board in ACS? And then maybe an update on how should we be thinking about the growth rates there? Well the biggest growth that we had in those 2 markets really were ECC within the ACS business and also HPS the process solutions business within ACS.
Those were the really big contributors.
But each of the businesses actually each had strong performance emerging region performance in the quarter which led to the kind of stellar numbers that we talked about.
And emerging regions were up.
In total I think it's around 20% in the quarter.
So obviously a key contributor and an increasingly important contributor to Honeywell's overall organic growth.
I thought those 2 businesses stood out in terms of -- to your specific question those really stood out in terms of the size and the growth.
Those are for an average about 50% growers during the quarter.
And then the expectations? Continue to be good.
We put a CAGR on it right in terms of 16% growth and we're already tracking above that at the 20% clip that you mentioned Dave.
Yes.
Good.
One more on Specialty Materials if I can.
So the supply and demand imbalance in the first quarter what was that related to? Was that any of the supply disruptions out of Japan?  Did that influence it? Or how? No.
This whole phenomenon is just related to -- phenomena specifically Ajay that I talked to is really related to our Fluorines business.
It's kind of most particularly our Refrigerated Products businesses within the Fluorines business.
And new products.
That's a very good question Dave.
And the other thing is globalization of that business now and what we're doing in terms of just growing our global customer base.
And the demand sent back has been much stronger than what we expected.
Yes and by the way Resins and Chemicals not to ignore that R&amp;C had a very strong quarter.
Continued growth in caprolactam and also ammonium sulfate was very strong in the quarter.
Now we expect some of that to again demodulate over the remainder of the year but still very very nice numbers for that business.
And the reason I ask is that we've heard of supply disruptions in chemicals BT-Epoxy electronic materials.
So you obviously have a very strong global manufacturing footprint.
So any opportunity for you there as the market shares shift? Yes I'm sure there'll be some.
Yes that wasn't a significant driver in the quarter but I think your point is a good one.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Our final question comes from Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
On the second quarter usually your margin is up sequentially.
I understand Specialty Materials is stepping down probably a headwind of 30 to 40 basis points.
But is your reported marking still going to be up in the second quarter despite that? I think again we don't provide quarter-by-quarter guidance but I would suspect Steve that we'll see something in the range of what we just experienced in the first quarter for Honeywell.
In terms of year-over-year.
In terms of year-over-year.
Right.
In terms of year-over-year? Okay.
And I think in terms of year-over-year and I think actually in absolute.
Okay got you.
And then for both of you guys I mean it's clear that this cycle you guys have come a long way over the last I don't know 9 10 years.
Last cycle even though you kind of beat a few quarters here and there several quarters it seemed like there was a little bit more of a pension to kind of invest a way upside kind of load the next year for growth.
Whereas this cycle it would appear that you're letting it rip a little bit more which speaks to the positioning you guys are in and how far you've come with this portfolio investment et cetera.
I'm just curious as to how you guys look at succession kind of the legacy there.
And over the next couple of years what do you think you need to do to kind of position Honeywell for the next 5 to 10 years? And is that a job that's in inning 4 or 5 or is it inning 7 or 8? I'm just curious I guess as to you guys both of your tenures at Honeywell going forward.
And of course Dave your name has been in the news as far as potentially working with the government in some stage and I'm just curious as to how long you guys are going to be around for.
Well as far as I'm concerned Honeywell is still on the top of the first.
We've still got a lot of opportunity left to go.
And also I like my job and I'd say the difference you're seeing in terms of let it rip is not so much that as it is if you went back 6 7 years ago there really was no pipeline.
We didn't have a pipeline of products.
We really finalized our great positions in good industries.
We didn't have a great geographic presence then.
All those things have changed.
And the thing I could promise you is the results you're seeing now are not a result of trying to shortchange anything for the future.
If anything we're accelerating that because we now have more resources to do it with.
So [indiscernible] here we are and where we're going and it's my intent to own my shares 10 years after I retire because things are just continuing to go well.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Thanks Steve.
All right.
Let's just hand it over to Dave Cote for any final comments you may have before we end the call.
Well it was a wonderful start for the year and I think a real validation of our consistent focus.
Our strategy our focus our seed planting none of this has changed.
And I say this a lot but relentlessly executing day-by-day quarter-by-quarter gets you to amazing places over time.
And I think our first quarter performance and our total year commitment are really just terrific evidence of that point.
Thanks for listening.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Honeywell Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Elena Doom Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Stephanie.
Good morning and welcome to Honeywell's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Here with me today are Chairman and CEO Dave Cote; and Senior Vice President and CFO Dave Anderson.
This call and webcast including any non-GAAP reconciliations are available on our website at www.honeywell.com/investor.
Note that elements of today's presentation do contain forward-looking statements that are based on our best view of the world and of our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change and we would ask that you interpret them in that light.
This morning we will review our financial results for the third quarter share with you our expectations for the fourth quarter and remainder of 2011 as well as discuss the framework for 2012.
And of course allow time for your questions.
With that I'll turn the call over to Dave Cote.
Thanks Elena.
Good morning everyone.
You might imagine that we're pretty anxious to talk to you about how we did because there's a lot of caveats [ph] this quarter.
As you saw from our press release we had another great quarter with better-than-expected operational performance reflecting terrific execution and continued momentum in most of our key end markets that yielded EPS above the high end of our range.
Now before we get to the financials we're obviously pleased the progress we made in the quarter on new repositioning actions smartly redeploying book gains and CPG sale proceeds in the third quarter.
Dave will take you through more details in a moment but we utilize both the gain on the sale of CPG as well as the OPEB curtailment gains to fund substantial business repositioning.
That will deliver tangible benefits in 2012 and beyond.
So our reported sales were $9.3 billion up 14% or 8% organic reflecting continued advancement in our new products high-growth regions and continued healthy end markets overall.
Segment margins expanded 50 basis points to 14.7% in the quarter which included a $30 million accrual to prefund a new employee health savings plan design.
This new plan design is consistent with our overall benefit strategy to empower employees to take ownership and optimize their benefits by making smarter decisions about their healthcare cost and improving quality outcomes going forward.
By implementing this plan design change we'll see a benefit in our healthcare cost next year.
We generated earnings per share of $1.10 up an impressive 45% over 2010 and you'll all recognize that was a good quarter also.
And it's above the high end of our guidance range even when you exclude the favorable $0.04 tax benefit in the quarter which will be fully offset in the fourth quarter as Dave will explain.
Free cash flow was $884 million reflecting 103% net income conversion.
This really reinforces the quality of our earnings performance volume leverage and continued cost controls while maintaining our seed planting for the future.
Given the strength and continued momentum of our year-to-date financial performance and positive outlook for the fourth quarter we are again raising our full year guidance.
We now expect pro forma earnings in the range of $4 to $4.05 a share reflecting a 33% to 35% increase in earnings over the prior year.
We think this is top-tier performance amongst our multi-industry peer group.
Our early cycle businesses including Advanced Materials ACS Products and turbochargers continue to show a healthy pace of growth although moderating.
While our longer cycle businesses like Commercial Aerospace Process Solutions and UOP are starting to kick in with double-digit growth in the quarter.
Further our investments and focus in emerging regions continue to pay off with sales in Asia overall up approximately 20%.
We had another quarter of robust new product launches and technical certification.
So when you look at the commercial and biz jet and general aviation side we have a number of large platform wins with high content and are driving terrific retrofit upgrades with our latest suite of cockpit enhancements.
There are several unannounced business aircrafts scheduled to debut over the next few years where Honeywell has been selected to provide the avionics.
In virtually every instance we were selected based on our advanced technology capabilities.
And in some instances the cockpits are not even put out for bid as our competitors' technology did not meet the OEM's requirements.
Turning to 2012 while we're not denying the potential for another recession we think the high probability outcome is a slow growth economic environment.
We're still in the early stages of our planning.
However we believe we're well positioned for growth across all 4 of our business segments again next year given what we're seeing in our major end markets the size of long cycle backlog the strength of our execution and what we've been able to do with advance repositioning.
Dave will walk you through an updated view by business and market when he discusses the planning framework for 2012.
But from an overall Honeywell view the key drivers will be traction on our key process initiatives growth investments in new products and services our acquisitions and our expanding global footprint.
Based on all of that we feel confident in our ability to generate good earnings growth at 2x to 3x sales growth again in 2012.
So our strong quarterly performance and once again improved outlook for 2011 reinforce that our strategy is working and puts us further ahead on achieving our 2014 sales and margin commitments our 5-year plan.
Having great positions in good industries the power of One Honeywell and our consistent focus on improving every year in each of our 5 initiatives it really makes the difference.
So with that I'll turn it over to Dave.
Thanks very much.
Good morning everyone and thanks for participating.
Let's go to Slide 4 3Q financial analysis operating performance.
In the next 3 slides starting with Slide 4 I want to take you through our very solid operating performance and then the onetime items or nonoperational items in the quarter.
And then finally on Slide 6 I'm going to show you the all-in reported financials.
Hopefully this will provide real clarity in terms of the operating performance that's really driving the earnings growth that we're seeing in the quarter for Honeywell.
So first on Slide 4 you see a pro forma summary of the results for the third quarter.
We presented again this way to reflect the terrific operating  results that lived through.
Sales of $9.3 billion were up 14% 8% organic.
Net acquisitions contributed 3% in the quarter and currency yielded a tailwind of approximately 3%.
On an operating basis segment profit grew 21% taking margins to 15% up 80 basis points.
We had margin expansion in all 4 business segments in the quarter.
If you look below the line the ongoing run rate for pension and OPEB was $50 million so in line with your expectations.
And including the run rate for environmental asbestos interest and stock compensation expense it was $212 million.
And again within that range that you would have expected for Honeywell for the quarter.
If you apply our normal 26.5% tax rate to those pretax earnings that would give you $1.06 per share before the onetime items I'm going to review on the next slide.
So an impressive 39% increase year-over-year $0.05 ahead of the high end of our previous guidance range.
So let's go on to now Slide #5 and talk about the details of the onetime items and the deployment geography for both the CPG and OPEB gains.
Starting now with segment profit.
As you can see we recognized and as Dave said a $30 million corporate expense as a result of the decision to fund employee Health Savings Accounts in 2011.
The design of these new plans coupled with the medical decision support tools that is now available to our employees will enable higher-quality better-value healthcare.
It will also drive efficiencies in '12 and future periods enabling us to offset the rising cost of healthcare as well as improve the quality outcomes for our employees.
If you move lower in the page you see a small amount of incremental environmental related to proactive agreements that we saw on several remediation actions.
And importantly I'm going to take you through more of the repositioning details in a moment but we recorded close to $300 million of repositioning in the quarter utilizing the remaining portion of the quarter's gains.
Finally we also had a pretax -- had a tax rate favorability in the quarter generating $0.04 of benefit relative to our normal 26.5% rate.
We expect the third quarter benefit to be fully offset or nearly offset in the fourth quarter given the timing of certain tax planning items.
So we're still -- another way of saying it we're still expecting 26.5% effective tax rate for the year.
So that implies a fourth quarter tax rate of approximately 27.5%.
So now let's go to Slide 6.
When you sum all of the onetime items you can see on Slide 6 that on a reported basis inclusive of those items which nets to 0 segment profit incorporating the HSA funding our margin is now 14.7% still up 50 basis points year-over-year.
If you move below the line you can see the onetime deployment actions that net against the ongoing portion of the below the line expenses that are included in our reported EPS.
You also see the $0.04 tax benefit at the 23.2% effective tax rate and then the $0.23 gain from the divestiture of CPG.
What all that nets to again is reported earnings per share of $1.10 an increase of 45% over the third quarter of last year.
So in summary another terrific quarter for Honeywell no matter how you look at it with better-than-expected earnings performance and again important to remember the driver for this solid came from underlying options none of the CPG gain none of the OPEB gain lived through.
Let's go now to Slide #7 and talk a little bit more about the after-tax gain deployment.
Slide 7 highlights in more detail the types of projects and projected benefits to the repositioning actions for the quarter.
So again on the left-hand side you can see that we had a total gain in the quarter of the $0.33 the $0.23 for CPG the $0.10 for OPEB.
On the right side you can see we had a mix of projects including structural transitions providing us with meaningful benefits for future periods.
On average these projects have longer paybacks but higher IRRs than our historic track record.
They still contribute about $50 million of operating income benefit in 2012 and importantly provide an annualized run rate operating income benefit of approximately $135 million.
So the actions we're continuing to consolidate our global footprint we're building out our emerging region capabilities and in some cases eliminating unprofitable product lines.
All around we feel very good about the flexibility of these projects give us for 2012 especially in a slower growth environment.
Slide #8.
Let's talk a little bit about repositioning and take a broader over time perspective.
This is one that we shared with you just a couple of weeks ago we want to just to update for the estimated repo benefits that we expect as a result of the actions we took in the third quarter.
So consistent with our strategy to smartly deploy below the line gains we funded almost $700 million in repositioning charges over the last 3 years which obviously is helping us better position the businesses and has provided meaningful savings.
In total the actions have amounted to about 7 000 net census reductions over the last 3 years including those actions that we took in the third quarter.
We now expect incremental savings from all the actions including those that we took in the third to total about $150 million of incremental operating income in 2012 which gives us a much more competitive cost structure going forward and better positions Honeywell for earnings growth in 2012 as well as future periods.
So with that background let's now go through each of the segments in turn starting on Slide #9 with Aerospace.
Aero had a very strong quarter.
Sales were up 8% in the quarter 7% organic.
Commercial sales were up 20% driven by continued momentum in the commercial aftermarket and also strong shipments of original equipment.
Commercial OE sales grew by 25% or 22% organic excluding the EMS acquisition benefit.
We saw a terrific growth in air transport OE driven by the ramp-up in build rates and the continued uptake of airline selectables with enhancements of our APU and our other safety and navigation upgrades.
In business aviation OE which is up approximately 40% after adjusting for launch contributions in '10 and the EMS acquisitions is benefiting from shipments of high Honeywell content OE deliveries in the mid to large cabin classes.
The commercial aftermarket sales were up 17% in the quarter.
And while we've seen several quarters of strong spares growth up 28% year-to-date our overall spares revenues are still below prior peak levels despite the modest restocking on the part of both U.S.
and European carriers.
So based on the higher utilization of the existing fleets we think there is further room to run in the aftermarket near term.
Let's go through a couple of the details.
Air transport in regional flight hours were up approximately 5% in the quarter so slightly lower than the approximate 5.7% we've seen -- we saw in the first half of this year.
Now we still expect flight hours to grow about 5% for the full year of 2011.
We expect the pace to decelerate in '12 but to still be positive.
Spares were strong up 28% in the quarter in line with what we saw in the first and second quarters.
In addition we're seeing older aircraft which needs more spare parts in Repair &amp; Overhaul return to service and to the shop floor.
Importantly R&amp;O was up 10% in the quarter approximately 2x the rate of flight hours.
Now we're also seeing increased software RMU sales of newly launched enhanced navigation and satellite communication packages.
These are high margin contributors and with revenue per shop visit expanding this also bodes well for this segment in 2012.
Now as expected defense and space sales in the Aero were down 4% in the quarter driven primarily by program completions and also anticipated program wind downs.
Now we continue to plan for further U.S.
defense budgetary pressures and reprogramming and we reiterate our forecast for modest declines in D&amp;S going forward.
Segment profit for Aero up 120 basis points to 18.2% due to increased commercial demand favorable aftermarket mix favorable pricing and also productivity.
It's important to note that Aero's favorable aftermarket mix is more than offsetting higher RD&amp;E investments this year which we're spending on new platforms and new growth programs.
So very positive overall quarter for Aerospace.
Let's turn now to Slide 10 Automation and Control Solutions.
Sales for ACS were up 14% in the quarter another good quarter of organic growth of 4%.
Acquisitions including Experion and EMS added 6% while foreign exchange contributed 4% growth in the quarter to ACS.
ACS also continue to see good emerging region penetration with sales in emerging regions up over 22% led by China India and also the Middle East.
The products businesses were up 15% reported 4% organic excluding foreign exchange.
Growth was led by the industrial businesses for fire products Personal Protection Equipment and Gas Detection  were particularly strong.
Scanning &amp; Mobility and S&amp;C also saw good growth although at a slower pace versus what they experienced in the first half.
Residential and commercial end markets have yet to recover but retrofit activity continues to show modest signs of life.
ACS did see however softer order books in July and August in their distributor channels in several businesses but September rebounded nicely.
So it's something we'll continue to watch closely through the fourth quarter.
On the Solutions side of ACS sales were up 12% reported 5% organic.
We had impressive growth in Process/Solutions as they execute on their large global project backlogs.
In emerging regions for the Process businesses for the Solutions businesses grew by more than 30% again driven party by China India and the Middle East.
Building Solutions is seeing strong overall install orders and backlog growth and we expect growth to continue to accelerate there over the next few quarters as they continue to convert a large number of project wins.
Now the sales conversion for ACS was on track at about 15%.
Segment margins were up 20 basis points to 13.8% and while Solutions will to continue to convert incremental sales in the mid-teens ACS expects higher conversion rates in the fourth quarter due to the lapping of Experion you recall from last year as well as in the investments that we made in growth across the portfolio beginning in the second half of 2010.
So we expect full year margins for ACS to be up approximately 40 basis points over 2010 for the full year 2011.
Let's turn now to Slide 11 Transportation Systems.
Sales in TS were up 22% driven by volume increases primarily in Turbo and then also some favorability in terms of foreign exchange.
Turbo sales continue to outperform the industry macros.
European light vehicle production they increased 4% in the quarter.
European diesel penetration expanded 2 points over comparable period last year.
And Turbo unit sales were very strong again this quarter up mid-teens with shipments exceeding prior peak levels in the same period of 2007 that's a notable accomplishment for Turbo.
Now Turbo's performance also reflects the businesses high win rates on both gas and diesel platforms as well as increased penetration for Turbos globally.
Sales in the Americas and Europe were particularly strong and we continue to see weak commercial vehicle sales in China due to a slowdown in construction spending and also some reduction or elimination of government incentives.
Segment profit was up 32% from last year with margins expanding 90 basis points to 12.6% due to volume increases and also productivity partly offset by higher commodity costs.
Let's now finish the segment by going to Slide 12 and talking about Specialty Materials.
Another great quarter for SM.
Strong double-digit growth at both UOP and Advanced Materials terrific organic sales conversions.
Sales in the quarter were up 25% for SM 18% organic.
Segment margin was 17.3% which included the dilutive impact of the phenol plant acquisition that closed in July.
UOP was up an impressive 36% delivering upside with refining and specialty catalysts sales which were up over 40%.
UOP also had growth in projects and services.
Now UOP continues to benefit of course from the front-end engineering design portion the feed portion of their large Petrobras project and is seeing the expected ramp up in refining its specialty catalysts which is forecast to continue in the fourth quarter.
UOP's order book very importantly is growing their book-to-bill is now 1.2 and we expect to see that strength continue into 2012.
And we'll talk about that in a little bit when we talk about the highlights of our planning framework for 2012.
The Advanced Materials sales were up 20% 10% organic.
We had strong demand for caprolactam and resins in Asia which boosted R&amp;C sales.
We also had favorable price over raw spread and the addition of the phenol plant revenues.
Now it's expected we're seeing some moderation in the pricing in fluorine products and also the impact of the seasonal ramp-down of refrigerants in the quarter.
In the specialty product side the growth was led by the penetration of new product applications in advanced fibers.
Now the segment margin for SM continued to be high in the third quarter due to the favorable price over raw material spreads higher UOP catalysts revenues and productivity partially offset by investments for growth and strong plant reliability and upgrades.
We're now planning SM margins of about 18.5% for the full year representing obviously significant growth over 2012.
So that review of the segments for the third quarter.
Let's go to Slide 13 and talk about the fourth quarter for Honeywell.
As you can see here what we've shown is by business as well as some summary numbers at the bottom of the slide for total Honeywell.
Just focusing on that takeaway at the bottom we're expecting total sales in the range of $9.4 billion to $9.6 billion in the fourth quarter up 7% to 10% from last year 6% to 8% organic.
And we're looking for EPS in the quarter of $1 to $1.05 assuming a higher-than-normal effective tax rate.
Again using a 27.5% rate as opposed to our normalized 26.5% rate.
In Aero we expect sales to be in the range of $3 billion to $3.1 billion.
This reflects continued commercial momentum partially offset by lower Defense and Space sales.
And again the commercial OE backlog is robust and will continue to provide a tailwind for us in 2012 and beyond.
We also think that the macro indicators in the personal aftermarket: Flight hours parked aircraft airline inventory levels passenger load factors and airline profitability will continue to provide momentum in the spares and R&amp;O business in the fourth quarter as well.
For ACS we expect sales in the fourth quarter in the $4.1 billion to $4.2 billion range reflecting good organic growth and also minimal net benefits from acquisitions roughly about 1% benefit from acquisitions.
We see good growth rates continuing to moderate on the product side of ACS as we lap tougher comps in the fourth quarter of '10 in ECC S&amp;C as well as Scanning &amp; Mobility.
And we expect further acceleration on the other hand in the Solutions businesses given their strong backlog.
And also worth mentioning we anticipate ACS margins to be up approximately 80 to 100 basis points over 2010 in the fourth quarter a nice finish for ACS for the year.
At TS sales are estimated to be in the range of $0.9 billion to $1 billion $900 million to $1 billion reflecting continued momentum on new launches.
We continue to forecast lower growth in light vehicle production in Europe as well as stable diesel penetration rates in the fourth quarter.
So as a result we expect the rate of growth for TS to moderate as production schedules and diesel penetration both level off.
And at Specialty Materials we anticipate sales in the fourth quarter of $1.4 billion to $1.5 billion.
With robust sales at UOP continued outperformance in Advanced Materials as well as the favorable impact of the phenol acquisition.
So SM margins however are expected to continue to moderate in the fourth quarter as price to raw spreads further stabilize.
So in summary another strong quarter anticipated for Honeywell in the fourth quarter $1 to $1.05 15% to 20% year-over-year.
For the full year we expect sales now at the high end of our previous range of $36.5 billion to $36.7 billion up 13% over 2010.
And 2011 pro forma earnings per share as Dave said we've now increased our estimate to be in the range of $4 to $4.05 an increase of 33% to 35% year-over-year an impressive year anyway you slice it.
And as a reminder that excludes the potential for fourth quarter mark-to-market adjustments for pension which given lower asset returns year-to-date and the lower interest rate and discount rate environment is likely.
And with that note let's turn to Slide 14 and just give you a quick update on pension it's worth talking about for a quick minute.
Now you recall just -- first talking about mark-to-market.
Any change in discount rates or plan returns versus the actuarial assumptions that we utilize at the beginning of the year so those that we apply at the end of 2010 for 2011 generate either a gain or loss.
And the amount outside the corridor is recognized in the form of a below the line fourth quarter mark-to-market adjustment.
With the fluctuation in rates and the lower-than-anticipated pension rate plan returns we anticipate a mark-to-market loss in the fourth quarter with that sensitivity to the size of the adjustment reflected in the table that you can see on the page at the top of the page at various year-end discount rates and plan returns.
Now it's important to note and we all know that there's going to be variability in these 2 factors between now and the end of the year.
And just to demonstrate that last year rates moved approximately 50 basis points in the last month of 2010.
Equity markets rallied and it drove our mark-to-market adjustments lower by about $600 million versus what we had assumed just a month earlier.
So for illustrative purposes for 2011 if we were to estimate the mark-to-market adjustments today using a 5% discount rate which appears to be about where it is it's come up about 20 basis points in the last week or so and return on assets it's somewhere hovering somewhere between 0% to minus 3% something in that range because it's moved around with each trading day and given the volatility of the market.
We would be somewhere in the range of approximately $1.5 billion to $2 billion in terms of a mark-to-market adjustment in the fourth quarter.
Moving below and importantly the other dimension and one that I know is very much on your minds is the initial implications for 2012 ongoing pension expense.
And from the sensitivity table you can see that we anticipate that our 2012 pension expense will be roughly flat to last year's expense or something -- to this year's expense I should say we're something in the range of $110 million.
So if you look again at the table and just look at a 5% discount rate and something in the range of 0% to 5% in terms of rate of return in terms of where it's been hovering recently.
It would give you that kind of range in terms of pension expense year-over-year.
That of course is going to be determined also by any incremental funding that we make to the pension plan that will also be influenced in terms of that year-over-year expense.
With that let's turn to Slide 15 the 2012 planning framework.
As Dave said we're going to continue to obviously update you.
We've got a formal review with you in mid-December.
But we thought it would be helpful to take you through some of the factors as we think about 2012.
We think we're well positioned again as we stated for organic growth across all 4 segments given what we're seeing in our major end markets what we're hearing from our customers and the strength of our long cycle backlog and of course the continued traction that we're getting on new products and geographic growth.
While the growth in our short cycle businesses such as Turbo and ACS products are expected to moderate we'll see strong -- the strong orders trends in our long cycle businesses will be reflected in higher sales growth for those businesses in 2012.
So starting with this page the 2012 Honeywell framework Slide 15.
Starting on the right-hand side.
When you think about obviously the commercial aftermarket in aerospace a significant market that's now moving in the right direction.
We feel confident that we're looking at attractive continued growth in that segment.
Also on the OE's side of Aero we have a backlog in order rates to support continued growth.
New platforms the increase production rates they're going to benefit us next year as well as the continued traction in the commercial aftermarket that I referenced.
So we expect -- while we expect a moderation in global flight hours next year we'll still see healthy growth.
And then we expect to benefit from higher spares and R&amp;O revenues as well as look for growth coupled in line with flight hours over the course of 2012.
Aero launch contributions had a negative impact to the P&amp;L this year of $100 million to $110 million.
We're planning for significantly lower launch contributions in 2012.
In emerging markets we continue to see good organic growth.
We'll have about a 20% revenue increase this year from emerging markets and we expect these high-growth regions to comprise roughly 20% of our revenues in 2011 a substantial increase over 2010.
And while there've been pockets of softness in China as a result of their efforts to curb inflation and maintain healthy slower growth we think the trend there will continue to be positive and obviously lots of opportunity for Honeywell.
Refining Petrochemical as well as metals and mining are positive stories for us particularly in UOP and Process/Solutions.
UOP backlog is up 33% year-over-year.
Process backlog is up 16%.
We've got some great wins and new products that will sustain growth in these markets next year.
Building Solutions also continues to be strong with backlog up 15% year-over-year.
The Turbo launches continue to be a positive story for us and we continue to see almost 2/3 of the growth in Turbo chargers coming from new wins.
So despite the macro OE production factors and stable diesel penetration that we expect we'll see more launches on the horizon and we think this businesses will continue to grow in 2012.
Now again it's important to note that in our major markets like Europe and U.S.
production rates are still significantly below prior peak levels.
Lastly on the tailwind column is our repositioning benefits and as I mentioned earlier we will estimate there's approximately $115 million of incremental operating income that we'll see in 2012 as a result of the repositioning actions we've taken over the last 3 years.
And consistent with our strategy to fund repositioning actions with onetime gains our 2012 repositioning expense at this stage is really a TBD but likely to be modest compared to the actions that we've taken in 2011.
On the headwinds side we obviously have Defense and Space we would anticipate some additional slowing in D&amp;S next year.
We're not counting on some of the favorability that we saw in the first half of this year in D&amp;S to repeat in the second half of next year.
In Fluorines product as expected we're seeing more demand-supply equilibrium as we've cited in the marketplace and a narrowing of price-raw spreads.
So while the Fluorines team is working on ways to offset this headwind we're certainly planning for less favorability in terms of pricing on a year-over-year basis.
Regarding Aero R&amp;D with a number of new platform wins and the ramping OE production that correlates to higher R&amp;D spend in the near term so we think in a year-over-year basis that's going to be a slight headwind.
However we expect this will be more than offset by significantly lower launch contributions in '12 compared to 2011.
Eurozone growth rates and residential retrofits benefited us in 2011 particularly when you think about our Turbo and ACS short cycle businesses.
But macro indicators are signaling slow growth and we'll continue to monitor the outlook for those markets obviously very closely.
And then in the center of the chart we've got a number of items that we're still weighing obviously industrial and short cycle businesses.
They continue to do well.
We're not seeing fundamental change in terms of customer behavior or order activity.
We remain cautious but positive.
For non-res for example that's a TBD for us now.
We seem to be bouncing along the bottom.
We don't see a catalyst for near-term improvement.
On the other hand we also don't see a significant risk of further degradation.
Pricing overall has benefited us in 2011 we'll continue to emphasize new product introductions as well as commercial excellence tools to recognize value despite the economic environment.
Commodities are obviously yet to be determined.
There has to be some retreat of most of the -- there has been a retreat on a number of commodities and we're looking to take advantage of that in terms of the current environment to ensure we've adequately covered key exposures for next year.
And then finally foreign exchange always subject to fluctuation.
We've just shown that as a TBD at this point.
So while some things are too early to be definitively forecast the preliminary framework for '12 remains appropriately balanced and positive on the operating side.
And as Dave said earlier we expect good earnings growth in 2012 at a rate of 2x to 3x our sales growth in what will likely be a slower global growth environment overall.
So as always we look forward to sharing with you more details in our guidance call in December.
We'll plan to take you through all of our major assumptions at that time and of course build up the numbers business by business.
So now let's just do a quick summary on Slide 16 before turning it back to Elena for Q&amp;A.
We're obviously very pleased with the third quarter and the year-to-date performance for Honeywell reflecting continued momentum and solid execution across the portfolio.
We have continued positive order rates across all of our segments which gives us confidence in our raised guidance for 2011 yielding approximately a 13% sales increase and over 30% earnings growth anticipated in 2011 compared to 2010.
It puts us further ahead in achieving our long-term financial targets that we've communicated to you.
Now the actions that we took in the third quarter to utilize the onetime gains these allow us to get further ahead of what is seemingly a slower growth environment.
And the planning framework that we've taken you through for 2012 coupled with our expectation for growth in each of our business segments really sets the stage for next year and really sets the stage for the discussion of more detailed outlook that we'll have with you in mid-December.
So with that Elena let's go to you for Q&amp;A Great.
Stephanie can you please open the line and we'll take our first question? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Scott Davis of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Guys is there any risk in Europe Turbo for next year? I mean how do you think about it? I guess how do you think about those risks? Well I think about risk not so much specific to any business as it is just the global economic environment.
This is probably as amorphous a time to try predicting what's going to happen as any we've seen recently.
When things were going really bad it was easy to tell.
When things were going -- started to get better you can tell.
This one is tough to know because it's really now dependent upon what government does both in the U.S.
and Europe.
And we think the high probability outcome here as we've tried to describe it is a slow growth environment for a couple of reasons.
One is when you look at things like non-res construction res construction auto build they're kind of at a much lower point than they were say 3 years ago.
And our guess is that governments in both regions will do the minimal amount possible.
So that's the way we ought to plan it.
And as a result of that we think you end up in a slow growth environment.
There is a risk of recession though if governments don't even do the minimal amount possible we can end up with a recession and then all businesses will get affected.
On the other side even though it's tough to imagine there is a possibility for a robust recovery if governments actually went beyond that minimum and address the problems that they have.
Because you look at the U.S.
balance sheet corporate balance sheet best in 60 years.
Consumers the amount of income devoted to debt best in about the last 20 years in the U.S.
So there's a real basis here for something better.
But we don't think that's the high probability outcome.
We'll stick with slow growth and we're planning all our businesses that way while making sure everybody stays conservative but very flexible.
Because you just don't know which way this thing is going to go and that's that we're thinking about it.
It will affect every business that outcome whatever happens with government is going to affect every business.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And guys I mean your Specialty Materials business has been a real gem for you and it's just -- it's really fantastic.
But can you talk about UOP? I mean the sustainability of -- if we're in a middle of reload cycle catalyst reloads cycle how long does that normally last? And when does this business start to -- I mean obviously you get tougher comps.
But when does it start getting tougher I guess is my question? Well I think the way to look at that one is if you take a look at the first 6 7 months of the year you actually didn't see a lot from UOP because they were building order backlog and that order backlog has done very well for us beyond just catalyst reloads.
And that's going to start to play more into fourth quarter and next year.
So I think it's not just the catalyst reload impact which actually has been doing well for us.
But Dave anything else you want to add there? Well I would just reinforce what we talked about in the call this morning is the growth Dave in the orders that we've seen.
You referenced the growth in the backlog.
And importantly Petrobras has obviously been a positive.
But if you take that out of the numbers the trend line of improvement in UOP is very impressive.
So what you're seeing is just the underlying core refining and petrochemical pieces of UOP really really coming on very very nicely.
And we see Scott specifically to your question on catalyst and catalyst reloads probably and again this is a little early we'll cover this in more detail in December.
But probably even more tailwind on the petrochemical side which bodes very well for us.
When you look at the composition of that backlog that bodes very well for us for both '12 and '13.
So I would say the macros right now are set up very very nicely for UOP and we're going to see continued real strength in performance out of that business.
Our next question comes from Howard Rubel from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up a little bit on what you've talked about in ACS and how you've been able to improve profitability Dave.
I mean my sense is that this is a little bit of a breakout and maybe there's a little bit of some magic behind that? Or is it just blocking and tackling? Well as you know over the last 10 years we haven't relied on magic all that much.
What we've tended to do is just have a consistent strategy and execute it consistently.
And that you do that day by day quarter by quarter.
It's amazing where you get to over a number of years.
And you're just starting to see the benefit of that.
In addition we mentioned this back in I think starting in the fourth quarter of last year where ACS had hired ahead further ahead than they should have and Roger would say that.
And what you're starting to see is the benefit of getting that back in line.
And that's why you're going to see further improvement in the fourth quarter.
But they're just doing a good job of executing every day.
Dave anything you want to add? Yes I think the other thing we would say is that there's a portion of that repositioning Dave that we've done that's really going to benefit ACS and we talked broadly about that being a tailwind again for us for 2012 but it's going to be an important tailwind for ACS.
And again just to kind of remind everybody we're going to see probably anywhere between 80 and 100 basis points of margin expansion for ACS call it 25% to 30% conversion in the fourth quarter.
So I mean you're seeing not only as you said Dave kind of really working through some of that investment we made but we're also seeing now the benefit of growing into those investments that we've done.
So actually good organic as well as overall growth in ACS this year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then one balance sheet question.
You've hit your $1 billion share repurchase mark.
And then so is there any desire or indication to do a little bit more? And then it looks like the cash balances grew very nicely but so did the CP.
Is that still attributable to the mismatch between currency or location of the cash? And is there anything you can do about that? At the end of the day when it comes to repurchasing we're pretty consistent with the strategy we've talked about in the past and that we want to be able to hold share count relatively constant.
And when it comes to the cash deployment we're going to continue to be I think pretty thoughtful about how we go about doing that.
At the end of the day I don't mind cash building on the balance sheet especially when we're in an uncertain time.
But we'll continue to play it that way.
Our next question comes from John Inch of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> ACS it's nice to see the fourth quarter rebound in incrementals.
This has been sort of though the fifth quarter of sluggish results.
We are kind of rolling into some of the headwinds that Dave Anderson you described with respect to a couple of these end markets.
Just curious like sort of where do you see or how do you see the trend line of profit conversion for ACS? Is there some sort of a normative trend line that we should be thinking of for planning purposes? Because it sounds like mid-teens is too low but then I don't know 30% is maybe a little too high.
So is the answer really somewhere in the middle just based on the natural mix? Well please let me first take issue with the adjective sluggish because while you could say the margin rate improvement has not been as great as we might have hoped initially because of the hiring ahead.
When you actually look at the earnings growth ACS has consistently grown earnings very well over the last 6 or 7 years.
So I would take issue with that while acknowledging that margin rate improvement has not been as great as we had hoped initially but largely because of that hire ahead.
At the end of the day ACS is very much on track for that 5-year commitment that we talked about on margin rate growth and sales growth.
And I think you're going to start to see the impact of that even more in the fourth quarter and as we get into 2012.
The conversion rate I'll let Dave address that further.
But conversion rates been pretty low over these last 4 quarters largely because of a point that I just mentioned.
But we expect that conversion rate to be very much improving in the out years '12 and beyond.
Dave anything...
Well I think a couple of things Dave to underscore your point.
I mean number one we've seen on a constant currency acquisition adjusted basis 6% organic growth for ACS on a year-to-date basis.
So I mean we're talking about very good performance when you think about again some of the overall market conditions that are out there I mean that's very good execution.
And second 30 basis points of margin expansion on a year-to-date basis which isn't shabby again when you think of the flow-through of both the investments they've made as well as the acquisitions which we're now lapping.
So the important thing and to John's point we're now lapping that.
I would say in terms of expectations John particularly when you look at 2012 and again this is moving ahead a little bit of what we'll talk about in more detail in December we talked about the very strong backlog that we've got on the Solutions side of the business that's going to convert.
We'll see the benefit in terms of the continued repositioning actions et cetera.
Depending on our acquisitions going forward at this point in time there's nothing significant that's going to impact ACS.
So I think we're looking at conversion rate in the 20% kind of range.
I mean I think that's what you should expect from us and that gets very very good growth given the -- and performance given the kind of continued investment we're going to make in R&amp;D marketing global expansion in this business.
I mean this is a very much a growth business for this company and again that's underscored by the year-to-date performance.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Those are good answers.
Dave Cote my context was really the last 4 quarters.
I just wanted to really -- the essence of the question was really to just discern I think a little bit more your level of confidence in the capacity of the business to expand its profits in the coming years.
That was all.
What kind of quiet restructuring -- can you just remind me Dave Anderson what kind of quiet restructuring have we done in 2012 that wasn't matched? And is that trajectory all else equal sort of around the similar mark for next year? It's really really 0.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's what I thought okay.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> So your commentary around restructuring for 2012 would you be looking to match that if there were some opportunistic event is that the way to think about it? I know you still own the BAE shares and so forth or what? Yes I think that's the way to think about it.
I think you have to look at us as smartly deploying gains and you can't always predict gains or the size of them.
So we will continue to always be vigilant in terms of looking at opportunities John.
Now it's fair to say that given what we've done and what we've announced today what we've already accrued for and what we've announced today we've got a fairly full plate in terms of execution right? There's a lot of things now to execute and get right.
So again for 2012 what we feel so good about and Dave has really underscored this morning is that we've really gotten out ahead.
We feel really good about that.
And John that's a real positive for us and positive business.
We're obviously not looking just at 2012 we're looking at multiyear performance here continuing to deliver value and delivering outperformance over time and that's what we are committed to do.
And these repositioning actions just falling very very nicely in terms of timing and the way we think we'll be able to execute these to support that.
Research Division</strong> Just lastly the pension framework Dave that you presented.
Because the footnote says "and additional prefunding" would that be about another $1 billion or so? And really the question kind of also comes back to if you do put another $1 billion into the plan and given all else equal your cash commitments where does that put Honeywell in terms of the flexibility to either do more share repo the way Howard suggested or perhaps do some M&amp;A? Or -- does that make 2012 kind of a holding period? Or do you still feel like you've got some balance sheet flexibility? First of all let me just say that on the pension contribution side it's very much to be determined.
We would anticipate today John that we would make an additional cash investments in the fourth quarter.
2012 is very much to be determined.
I mean...
Depends on what happens.
That's exactly right.
And also just the progression of markets and the interest rates over the course of 2012.
I mean we've seen some bank estimates that are saying as much as a 50 basis points lift on the 10-year treasury over the course of '12.
I mean so much of this will be addressed and solved just by an elevation of rates.
So that's very much -- the good question is very much to be determined.
On the share buyback what we've stated is this.
That our number one priority obviously is to continue to grow our strong businesses to use M&amp;A strategically as a growth vehicle for Honeywell and that's what you should look for.
It's a very smart strategic growth complementing our core organic growth for Honeywell.
It's very much a part of the story.
So that's the number one priority.
Number 2 obviously is we want to continue to look at the dividend as a very important component of Honeywell valuation very important to our investors.
Number 3 we're going to look at holding shares constant holding shares flat.
And depending upon circumstances and events around M&amp;A and depending on pricing in Honeywell in the marketplace we will be opportunistic in terms of share buyback.
But kind of in that sequence that's the way you ought to think about it.
Dave anything you would add to that? I think that's perfect.
Our next question comes from Nigel Coe from Morgan Stanley.
So just wanted to dig into the Aero margins and obviously we've got this drip drip down in the S&amp;D revenues.
I mean how is the margin rate in Defense and Space holding up? Because roughly -- my understanding is that D&amp;S margins are roughly equivalent to the average.
I'm just wondering if you've got a headwind on margins there? Or if the margin rate is remaining broadly stable? It's consistent with the past stable I think is a good way to put it.
Okay great.
And then just a couple of clarification on pension.
The matrix on the sensitivity that's pretax based? Well it's a pretax so that's a PBT if you will Nigel.
Yes okay.
And the 250 is that on top of the 1.4? Yes.
Okay great.
Fantastic.
And then just a clarification Dave on the resi retrofit comments.
Just want to understand why that would get incrementally worse in 2012 versus this year? Well I think what we're seeing is on the retrofit business we're just seeing some pullback in the trade and distribution channels we saw that in the third quarter.
Specifically what we saw Nigel is relatively weak July and August and then we saw a rebound in September.
Now so I'm really highlighting that as to be monitored to be watched.
It's just something that we want to be very very mindful of.
So it's really flagging it from that standpoint.
So was that inventory burn let's say the big boxes? Yes we think that took place.
And just to build on that the first half tremendous growth in resi retrofit for us.
So if you look at ECC or even within fluorine products you had strong double-digit growth there.
Right right.
And then just finally on the OPEB we've got a couple of gains coming through on the curtailments any possibility that we might see 1 or 2 more of those breaking free in 2012? Minimal.
Our next question comes from Shannon O'Callaghan from Nomura Securities International.
Research Division</strong> So just on the fluorines pricing thing I mean it seems like it hung in a little longer as a benefit this year than we thought.
I mean as we head into next year that's sort of one of your few headwinds to worry about.
I mean any ballpark on sort of how to quantify that or the dynamics that might play out? Well you could have probably put that in TBD as well as putting it into headwind in terms of do any of us really know exactly what's going to happen there.
But we're looking at it and thinking about it as a headwind just because you end up knowing this month by month really.
So we just think that's the right way to think about it today.
And I wouldn't -- -- I'd hesitate to put a number on what it could or couldn't be because we just don't know.
To your point it's held on better than we had expect it.
So that could very well occur next year or it could degrade.
We just really don't know.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I understand the point about defense not expecting some of the favorability earlier this year to live through.
But other than that I mean any color on how things are playing out in the defense business? Anything you think is going to get particularly worse next year? Well you'll have to put it in the overall context that we still expect defense spending to be coming down over time.
I just don't see how the U.S.
ever resolve the debt issue we have unless there's some kind of tax reform that's coupled with entitlements and defense.
I just don't see how that happens.
So we think that's the right way to think about it.
At the same time we've had 1 or 2 contracts that have come to conclusions so that will impact us some.
And we just think that's the best way to think about it and to plan for it.
This is not a time I think to ever think about Defense and Space as being a tailwind.
We're going to continue to stay conservative.
We've done better than we'd estimated this year but we still think staying conservative is the smart thing to do there.
Yes that's good.
And Shannon you noticed that we benefited from international spares sort of short cycle in the first half where at today's point where we don't expect that.
So if you look at -- to continue with sort of the underlying growth rate or run rate coupled with some of the program specific items that he mentioned that really leads you to more of that down 4% maybe down 5% kind of range in terms of our run rate.
So that's the way we're planning and we think that's smart as Dave said we think that's the smart approach to planning for this business going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean I guess as you look through these headwinds I mean after those 2 I mean doesn't sound like you're particularly worried about a lot of these headwinds.
I mean is that fair to say? So just the thing is that I would say there's a little bit if I could just sort of in the reverse and that is the confidence that we have in the tailwinds.
When you look at the Honeywell story for 2012 it really sets up very nicely.
When you think of the strength of that commercial both aftermarket and OE this continued strength we're seeing in emerging markets the backlogs that we have in our long cycle.
We talked about UOP earlier referenced some of the specifics of that which will by the way not only manifest themselves in terms of positive revenue growth for UOP but also positive mix for UOP.
And then we think launches on Turbo will offset macros.
So within a reasonable range of expectations you take the range of analyst estimates for European production specifically for 2012 and that's the broadest range of any region.
Within that reasonable range launches are going to offset those macros so we're going to see growth in that business.
And then finally what we really really reinforce is the smart and disciplined redeployment of the gains for the repo benefits.
So while we clearly got the known headwinds the fact of the matter is the highlight really of the message today is the strength of those tailwinds.
And how well we think we're positioned to continue to grow in 2012.
We feel -- I'd say Shannon another way to say it is I feel very well positioned internally.
The biggest issue that we're going to face is externally and what does government do over the next 2 or 3 months to empower the economy to grow.
Regardless of the economy we think we've positioned ourselves very well to outperform.
Our final question comes from Steve Tusa from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So just on the 2012 I'm not sure if you discussed this before.
But why was the non-res move from headwinds to a TBD for the 2012 framework? I think a few weeks ago you had it as a headwind? And then also I think you moved OPEB removed OPEB from headwinds as well? Well a couple of comments on the non-res side as we stood back and I said that Steve just briefly in my comments earlier.
Really when you look at the fact that we don't see any real signs of life on the other hand we don't see a lot of risk further downside.
So when you think about it in terms of a fee what you should think about on a year-over-year basis we took it off.
The other thing on the OPEB is that when you consider that OPEB gains were fully redeployed into repositioning fact of the matter is the run rate then on OPEB is essentially even 2012 our current expectation compared to 2011.
So it's really a refinement.
We think smart requirements of the slide which as you know we continually do that.
That's kind of the process of thinking through and trying to give you the very best judgment on these items.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one other question on the Aerospace side.
Was there a weep payment tailwind this quarter? For business jets I think it was? How big was that? I think we had around $20 million year-over-year.
But those numbers kind of move around a little bit.
Was there any tailwind there? It was small.
It was $15 million for Aerospace in the quarter Steve.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I heard you correctly one more time just on the ACS side I think somebody asked about it before.
So I mean you're saying this is kind of a breakthrough quarter.
So after all this hemming and hawing over the leverage there we're going to really start to see some clean numbers at ACS going forward? Well I think what we said is that we're now lapping the investments that we made in the second half of 2010.
We're also growing into those from a revenue standpoint.
Also we had the Experion acquisition-related accounting expenses flowing through the P&amp;L.
So we're going to see very good margin lift and attractive revenue conversion in ACS in the fourth quarter.
What we said on a run rate basis all the puts and takes the strength of the backlog in the Solutions businesses the lapping of very very tough comps on the product side some of the headwinds that we'll have.
For example we think in the residential retrofit market et cetera that conversion rate in and around 20% for ACS in terms of modeling purposes and expectation purposes make sense.
All right.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Dave Cote for your final comments.
Well as you might imagine we are quite pleased with our accomplishments for the year and the quarter.
And I trust our investors are quite pleased also.
Our consistent strategy consistently applied really makes a big difference.
And while none of us can predict today what the 2012 economic environment globally will be we do believe we are well positioned to outperform given our long cycle backlog our growth programs with new products and emerging regions and our repositioning actions.
Thanks for listening.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
That does conclude today's conference.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Honeywell Fourth Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions]  As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host Elena Doom Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Stephanie.
Good morning and welcome to Honeywell's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Here with me today are Chairman and CEO Dave Cote; and Senior Vice President and CFO Dave Anderson.
This call and webcast including any non-GAAP reconciliations are available on our website at www.honeywell.com/investor.
We ask that you note that elements of this presentation do contain forward-looking statements that are based on our best view of the world and of our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change and we would ask that you interpret them in that light.
We also identified the principal risks and uncertainties that affect our performance in our Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
This morning we'll review our financial results for the fourth quarter and for the full year 2011 as well as share with you our updated guidance for the first quarter and full year 2012 and of course allow time for your questions.
With that I'll turn the call over to Dave Cote.
Thanks Elena and good morning everyone.
As you saw from our press release we had another great quarter marked by terrific execution with continued growth in most of our end markets.
And then yielded earnings per share above the high end of the previous range.
Our reported sales were $9.5 billion up 8% reported or 7% organic reflecting continued advancement in our new products and the focus on high-growth regions.
We ended the year with segment margins of 15.1% expanding 90 basis points over the fourth quarter of last year.
Then pro forma earnings per share were $1.05 up 21% over last year.
Free cash flow was an impressive $1.4 billion in the quarter reflecting 169% net income conversion prior to a $250 million cash pension contribution.
Our 2011 performance underscored our balanced portfolio mix and strength of execution.
New products geographic expansion and traction on key process initiatives all translated to record organic growth margin expansion high-quality earnings performance and strong free cash flow generation.
And we did all this while continuing to maintain our seed-planting for the future.
In the fourth quarter we had another quarter of robust new product launches and big wins starting with Process Solutions who was awarded a highly competitive 15-year $90 million contract to completely overhaul the technology controlling the massive Los Angeles wastewater treatment system ousting the incumbent in the process.
Building Solutions &amp; Distribution expanded their Smart Grid wins internationally with a project that will help connect up the 30 commercial and industrial buildings in the Thames Valley area west of London.
This will help alleviate the potential for future bottlenecks as the peak demand for energy grows.
Honeywell is helping to create a more agile grid without the public disruption or expense of major infrastructure upgrades.
UOP as you might expect also did well within the quarter.
National Refinery Limited awarded UOP a major Uniflex project in Pakistan.
As a reminder Uniflex is the process technology that maximizes the conversion of crude residues.
Think of it is as the bottom of the barrel to high-quality transportation fuel.
Uniflex technology can significantly increase refinery margins $2 to $4 a barrel over other conventional technologies and that's a big competitive advantage for our customers.
The emerging regions are continuing strong and now comprise approximately 20% of our total sales.
We're seeing the biggest increases in Turbo Commercial Aerospace UOP and Process and Building Solutions with sales up approximately 20% again in the fourth quarter for China India and the Middle East combined.
Turning to 2012.
We still think the high probability outcome is for slow growth economic environment.
That said our developed market order rates are mixed with continued growth in the U.S.
partially offset by weakness in Europe short-cycle businesses.
We still expect these businesses to grow but at a more moderate rate in the first quarter.
Meanwhile the commercial Aero aftermarket remains robust with spares and R&amp;O continuing to outpace flight hours.
And our longer-cycle businesses like commercial Aero OE Process Solutions and UOP are increasing backlog with our total book-to-bill rate above 1.2.
Dave will walk you through an updated view by business when he discusses the outlook for the first quarter of 2012.
But from an overall Honeywell perspective we remain confident in our ability to sustain good growth while continuing to expand margins over the course of 2012.
So once again 2011 is further proof that our strategies are working and we think we've got a balanced plan for 2012 that incorporates the current economic realities as well as the benefits derived from our continued seed-planting initiatives.
And finally we think that puts us in excellent position to achieve our 2014 sales and margin commitments.
Having great positions in good industries the power of One Honeywell our consistent focus on improving every year in each of our 5 initiatives it really makes a difference.
So with that let me turn it over to Dave.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
So let's start off on Slide #4 and I'll take you through the fourth quarter highlights just adding to Dave's comments.
As you can see reported sales of $9.5 billion up 8% 7% underlying organic growth in the quarter so continued strong organic growth and a finish for 2011.
Acquisitions contributed about 2% of growth and we had about a currency of 1% headwind in the quarter.
On a regional basis as expected Europe was lower in growth.
However we saw strong organic continued growth from the Americas up about 7%.
The Middle East China and India combined were up almost 20%.
Segment profit growth was 15% in the fourth quarter.
Margins increased by 90 basis points to 15.1%.
We had margin expansion in all 4 business segments.
Price productivity net of inflation continue obviously to be the key drivers of profitable growth for us.
Moving below the line all items were in the range of their quarterly run rates.
Tax we had a 27.5% effective tax rate on pro forma earnings.
That's as expected and as we guided but of course ahead of our usual 26.5% and that's the ETR where we finished the year again consistent with the guidance that we gave you in July.
Pro forma earnings per share that is excluding the impact of the fourth quarter pension mark-to-market adjustment $1.05 21% increase over the fourth quarter of 2010.
And by the way that 2010 fourth quarter included $0.03 for discontinued operations from CPG.
So if we really adjust it on a continuing operations basis we're up 25% EPS fourth quarter.
Now the reported EPS included $1.8 billion of pension mark-to-market adjustment taking reported earnings actually to a loss of $0.40 per share in the quarter.
Free cash flow prior to pension contributions finished strong $1.4 billion.
Working capital was a strong source of cash in the quarter driven by operational improvements across the board.
So let's now go to the next slide and go through the full year numbers.
Slide #5.
Sales for the year up 13% to $36.5 billion.
That includes by the way and reflects record 8% organic growth for Honeywell.
Acquisitions contributed 3%.
Foreign exchange was a tailwind of approximately 2% for the full year.
Segment profit increased 19%.
Margins expanded 80 basis points to 14.7%.
And Dave I think that's a record for us as well.
This was another strong year for profit growth and margin expansion which clearly demonstrates our ability to deliver productivity from operations while also providing value from a sales and marketing excellence.
Pro forma earnings $4.05 a remarkable 35% or $1.05 increase versus 2010.
And again below-the-line expenses excluding the ongoing pension expense were relatively flat year-over-year when you consider that onetime gains were deployed.
That's pretty impressive when you consider the number onetime gains that we successfully deployed that will fund repositioning and other items over the course of the year.
And then of course also reflects the loss of CPG earnings in the second half of the year.
Now as a reminder we funded approximately $350 million of repositioning in 2011.
All of it offset by gains.
In addition to funding a number of other projects and considerable investment in R&amp;D new product introductions which of course sets us up nicely for 2012 2013 and beyond.
Reported EPS was $2.61 up slightly over 2010.
That of course includes the MTM  adjustment I mentioned earlier.
Free cash flow was $3.7 billion and that's prior to pension contributions 115% net income conversion.
So now let's go through the highlights of each of the segments and I'll reference fourth quarter as well as full year numbers starting with Aero on Slide 6.
As you can see Aerospace sales up 8% in the quarter 6% organic.
Commercial sales were up 20% driven by continued momentum in the commercial aftermarket as well as strong shipments to OEs.
And of course that was partially offset in the quarter by lower Defense sales.
Commercial OE sales grew by 18% 12% organic excluding the EMS acquisition.
We saw growth in Boeing and Airbus deliveries driven by the ramp-up in production rates partially offset by lower regional jet deliveries.
Business Aviation OE is continuing to benefit from shipments of high-value Honeywell content on new production aircraft 16% organic growth taking into account lower launch contributions versus 2010 as well as the EMS acquisitions.
Commercial aftermarket sales were up 21% in the quarter.
We saw growth of spares and R&amp;O.
Those trended differently as you know over this recovery cycle.
We had strong growth in both in the quarter and the aftermarket levels are now above prior peak levels and that's measured in absolute terms.
Spares were up 28% and by the way up 28% also for the full year reflecting continued strong demand globally.
The commercial R&amp;O was up 18% over last year although roughly flat over the third quarter level.
So based on the high utilization of existing fleets we expect continued growth in 2012 although at a slower pace as the quarter-over-quarter comps get tougher.
Just a quick minute to go through a couple of the details here.
In air transport and regional flight hours those were up approximately 3.4% in the quarter and we expect that kind of moderated pace to continue through 2012.
Layering on top of the flight hour growth we've seen older aircraft which need obviously more spare parts and repair and overhaul return to service and we're benefiting from that.
We're also seeing increased sales of newly launched enhanced safety and navigation software upgrades.
Just to give you a couple of examples a couple specifics of that.
Primus Epic and synthetic vision cockpit upgrades SmartRunway and SmartLanding for airport and runway awareness and Flight Management System upgrades for next-generation Air Traffic Management.
Additionally our high-speed satellite communications packages are doing well as customers desire more global connectivity solutions.
And as you all know these are high margin contributors that continue to expand our product portfolio and all of this bodes well for the aftermarket segment of Aerospace in 2012.
Now as expected Defense and Space sales were down 4% in the quarter driven primarily by program completions and also program ramp-downs.
Our service contract completions ramp-down of funding for the T-Hawk micro air vehicle partially offset by growth in our short-cycle aftermarket sales in Defense.
Now as a reminder international aftermarket sales were particularly strong in the fourth quarter of 2010.
They contributed to a very difficult comp in the quarter and as we've discussed with you in numerous occasions we continue to plan for further U.S.
Defense budgetary pressures and reprogramming and we're planning for modest declines in Defense and Space overall in 2012.
Now Aero's segment profit was up 40 basis points in the quarter to 18.8% due to strong commercial aftermarket volume that I referenced as well as productivity benefits net of inflation.
These were partially offset by higher R&amp;D investments net of launch payment favorability and the dilution associated with the EMS acquisition.
So on an apples-to-apples basis sales conversion for Aerospace was up just over 30% in the quarter.
Now as 2012 unfolds we'll continue to monitor the macro indicators obviously in Aerospace as well as -- and by segment as well as by region.
But as we sit here today we expect aftermarket growth to outpace flight hours and we expect good sales conversion and margin expansion within the Aerospace segment throughout the year.
Let's go now to Slide 7 ACS.
Sales for ACS were up 4% in the quarter.
We had favorable impact of acquisitions offsetting negative foreign currency translation.
ACS continued to see good growth globally with pockets of anticipated softness in Europe where sales were down mid-single digits.
The emerging markets remained strong for ACS with double-digit sales growth in India and the Middle East.
Growth in China for the quarter was a little bit muted but continued softness in the residential and industrial sectors for EPC as well as for Life Safety.
Now for ESS the Energy Safety and Security business.
Sales were up 3% organic driven primarily by strength in scanning mobility but also in security and sense of control.
HPS sales in the quarter were up 2% organic as they lapped a very strong fourth quarter of 2010.
And you'll recall last year is a very robust recovery in Field Devices.
We actually had 30% growth in that business segment of HPS in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Now orders for HPS were strong in the quarter up 11% adding over $900 million of new wins.
Dave mentioned earlier HPS has been awarded fairly highly competitive projects in 2011 and we're planning for accelerated revenue growth in HPS in 2012.
BSD or the Building Solutions &amp; Distribution business of ACS.
6% organic sales growth.
We had strong security distribution sales in the Americas.
We also had improving backlog conversion on several large public-private partnerships as well as energy efficient -- efficiency projects in the Solutions side.
The commercial retrofit activity in these markets continues to show modest signs of life.
ACS did softer order books in October and November in their trade and distribution channels as well as the slowing in China namely on the HVAC side and ECP but also in the fire products and Life Safety side.
However December exit rates showed improvement so it's something obviously we'll continue to watch closely over the coming months.
Now as expected segment margins for ACS expanded very nicely in the quarter up 130 basis points to 14.4%.
It reflects primarily obviously higher organic growth and volume leverage but also very good execution on acquisition integration and good cost controls.
ACS also benefited by lapping the headwinds associated with last year's M&amp;A accounting for the Sperian acquisition.
So for the full year ACS sales were up 13%.
Segment margin expanded 50 basis points to 13.4%.
And we expect ACS margins to continue this expansion for us in 2012 and feel confident in their ability to reach that 15% to 16% target that we've set for them by 2014.
Let's go now to Slide #8 look at Performance Materials &amp; Technologies PMT.
So PMT had double-digit growth at both UOP and Advanced Materials in the fourth quarter.
Sales were up 24% and by the way we guided it to 21% to 26% for PMT in the quarter so it's sort of at the -- little towards the high end of that guidance.
17% organic and segment margin was up 80 basis points to 15.6% which included the dilutive impact of the phenol plant acquisition that closed in late July.
Now sales at UOP were up an impressive 36% in the quarter delivering upside with refining and specialty catalysts sales of almost 40% as well as growth in projects and services.
Demand fundamentals for UOP remained robust.
UOP exited the year with record backlog a book-to-bill ratio above 1.3.
And in the quarter UOP signed significant contracts for new technologies.
They also benefited from the feed portion of their large Petrobras project and they were selected by Petrobras in the quarter to provide gas separation technology for other offshore processing units.
So that just continues to be a good news story.
UOP is also well positioned for another strong growth year in 2002 (sic) [ 2012 ] with higher sales conversion driven by favorable project and the catalyst mix which will offset most of the pricing headwinds that we expect and we've guided you to in Advanced Materials in the first half of 2012.
Turning to Advanced Materials.
Sales were up 18% in the quarter 7% organic with continued favorability in terms of pricing in RNC [ph] offsetting slower demand in Fluorine.
And as a reminder and really it's very notable with that 18% reported 7% organic the phenol acquisition obviously contributed importantly in the quarter but was $80 million in revenues compared to about $120 million that we'd included in our original guidance.
And that's just the function of the flow-through of a reduction in commodity costs no real change in volume there just a reduction in both phenol and acetone pricing in the quarter.
Now Fluorines in the quarter continued to see price declines due to increased availability of supply of refrigerants globally.
We've seen signs of global demand slowing for resins and specialty products with some inventory destocking as a result partially offset by continued uptake from new product applications.
So overall obviously a great year for PMT record margins of 18.4%.
Clearly a credit to the work that Andreas and the team have done  capitalizing on the strengths of their businesses with a lot of emphasis on new technologies products as well as new applications.
Let's turn now to Slide 9 Transportation Systems.
In the quarter TS sales were up almost 10% driven by volume increases primarily in Turbo partially offset by the unfavorable impact of a weaker euro.
Now turbocharger sales continued to outperform the industry macros.
European light vehicle production was roughly flat in the quarter year-over-year and European diesel penetration expanded 3 points to a record 62%.
Sales for TS for the full year were up 21%.
Turbo unit shipments exceeded prior peak levels that we had recorded in 2011.
And that reflects our high win rate on both gas and diesel platforms as well as obviously increased Turbo penetration globally.
Sales in Europe for TS have moderated consistent with slowing vehicle production rates.
Sales in the emerging regions however improved with sequential improvement in China despite commercial vehicle sales for the year being down due to reduced government incentives.
India continued strong in the quarter with increased demand from local OEs.
Now segment profit was up 14% in the quarter for TS.
Expanding margins 40 basis points they had strong productivity gains partially offset by inflation and negative mix from some softer aftermarket sales.
So for the year segment profit for TS was solid expanding 150 basis points to 12.6%.
So with that review of the 4 business segments let's go to Slide 10 and transition to 2012 and talk about our preview for the first quarter.
Turning to Slide 10.
In total we're planning for first quarter total company sales in the range of $9 billion to $9.2 billion up 4% to 6% from last year assuming a euro rate of 1.30.
And I think last year first quarter Elena we had a euro rate average of about 1.40.
So at EPS we're looking at $0.93 to $0.98 up 6% to 11% on a reported basis 8% to 14% on a continuing operations basis which excludes the earnings the $0.02 from discontinued operations which is of course the CPG.
And of course and just as a reminder that not only that $0.02 impact of not having CPG in the first quarter we'll have that also for the second quarter given the timing as you recall of July 2011 sale of CPG.
So let's just take a minute and walk through the rest of the first quarter and talk about those business segments.
So in Aerospace for the first quarter we expect a continuation of more than -- more of the same commercial OEM aftermarket momentum lifting the segment higher partially offset by a relatively flattish outlook in Defense.
So as a result we expect sales to be up for Aero 7% to 9% with margins expanding nicely despite the bigger role that an unfavorable mix will play in 2012.
And as a reminder specifically what I mean by that is we're expecting commercial OE sales to grow at approximately double the rate of aftermarket growth for Aerospace in 2012.
For ACS for the first quarter we expect revenue growth in the 2% to 4% range.
Now that includes the impact of slower growth due to weak European and residential markets affecting our short cycle ESS businesses.
In addition we expect foreign exchange headwinds to more than offset the net benefit from acquisitions so about 2%.
However on the other side we anticipate acceleration in Process and Building Solutions growth given the expected strong backlog conversion.
So as a result we expect ACS margins to be up approximately 30 basis points in the first quarter over 2011 and on track to their outlook for the full year.
At Performance Materials we anticipate sales up a strong 12% to 15% growth driven by robust sales at UOP and favorable impact of the phenol acquisition which would add about 8% to 9% and moderate growth organic growth in Advanced Materials.
From a margin standpoint we would expect PMT to be down of their record 21% margin that they had in the first quarter of 2011 but still in the range of the first quarter of 2012 in the range of their full year 2011 segment margin rates.
So still very attractive very impressive.
Transportation System sales are expected to be relatively flat in the first quarter.
It reflects an 8% decline in the Western European light vehicle production coupled with foreign currency headwind of approximately 3 points offset by robust new launches and an expected increase in European diesel penetration year-over-year.
And I referenced that 62% diesel penetration in Western Europe where we ended the year.
And in light of the current demand expectations we expect the first quarter 2012 margins for TS to be in line with how they exited 2011.
So in summary we're looking for another good growth quarter in the first quarter of '12 despite a more challenging economic backdrop and we're obviously anticipating nice income conversion.
So let's now go to Slide 11 the full year 2012 financial guidance summary.
And as you can see nothing really new to report here.
We reaffirmed our financial outlook for 2012 that we gave you mid-December of 2011.
We anticipate sales for Honeywell in total to be in the range of 4% to 7% up this year $37.8 billion to $38.9 billion on a reported basis up 4% to 6% on an organic constant currency basis.
Segment margins to grow 15% to 15.3% for the year up from 2011's 14.7%.
And of course EPS $4.25 to $4.50.
It reflects 5% to 11% increase over the $4.05 base just completed for 2011.
Now again the guidance assumes a flat effective tax rate year-over-year of 26.5%.
Share count roughly equivalent to our fourth quarter exit rate.
We're also assuming a de minimis amount of repositioning charges consistent with our approach to fund repositioning with onetime nonoperating gains.
On cash we're planning for around 100% cash flow conversion.
So translating to free cash flow of approximately $3.5 billion.
Importantly before any potential NARCO trust funding or further voluntary pension funding.
And on pension our guidance assumes level contributions over the course of 2012 of $200 million to $250 million per quarter but we'll actually do that as the year unfolds and we'll manage that measure it as the year unfolds.
Now we finished the year approximately 83% funded globally with the U.S.
portion slightly better on a year-over-year basis.
The 2012 ongoing pension expense will be favorable by about $50 million versus 2011 which for now will appear to offset the potential for further foreign currency downside.
So think of that if you will as added contingency some of which is reflected in that first quarter guidance that we gave you.
And again on the bottom of the page you could see some of the variables that may influence our performance in the year and form the basis for our guidance range.
So the 5 outcomes as we talked about mid-December on the left would cause the earnings to be closer to the low end of the range and obviously those on the right would cause earnings to be at the higher end of the range.
And we feel again the range is broad enough to incorporate these varying outcomes as well as just the overall macro uncertainty that exists in today's environment.
So Slide 12 a terrific year for Honeywell.
Just to recap before turning it over to Elena for your Q&amp;A.
Capping off an impressive 10-year transformation at Honeywell.
Our performance track record over that time underpins the operational and financial disciplines that you've come to expect from us.
And while we've come a long way we obviously feel even better about our future.
That said based on all we're seeing and hearing 2012 will be a more challenging overall environment.
While order rates remain positive overall we've seen some weaknesses as I've cited in Europe and China in energy safety and security as well as in our Advanced Materials.
On balance our long-cycle businesses those orders continue to show a healthy pace and they'll contribute to very good growth for Honeywell in 2012.
We're expecting sales in the developed regions primarily the U.S.
and Europe to moderate but still outpace GDP over the course of 2012 through increase penetration new product introductions as well as market share gain.
Everything we're seeing says we're going to be living through an economic downturn in Europe through the first half of 2012 which is reflected in our orders and our sales outlook.
The good news here is that with approximately 40% of our European sales not affected by the near-term macro uncertainty as we continue to convert the long cycle backlog of Commercial Aerospace Process Solutions at UOP and continue to enjoy the robustness of the commercial aftermarket -- commercial Aerospace aftermarket.
Now we're expecting strong operating performance again in '12 increasing our sales conversion whether it's our relentless focus on cycle time both commercial and R&amp;D effectiveness controlling our fixed costs through OES layering in the benefits from ongoing repositioning actions.
And we'll continue to deliver another year of continued margin expansion and 100% free cash flow conversion.
And of course we plan to update you on our long-term outlook at our upcoming Annual Investor Conference in New York City Wednesday March 7.
You'll hear more from Dave about how the diligent deployment of our key process initiatives over the last decade has set us up for an even better future.
And we'll showcase the evolution of those initiatives that underscore the organization's ability to be a top-tier performer with a balanced portfolio short- and long-cycle businesses and a disciplined playbook focused on smart cost management.
Again positioning Honeywell for top-tier performance again in 2012 as well as beyond.
So with that Elena let's go to -- turn it over to you for Q&amp;A with our audience.
Thank you.
Stephanie if you can now open the line we'll take our first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Steven Winoker from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I just want to ask about -- first let me just start with the first quarter versus the rest of the year.
What risk do you see or how much are you relying on that sort of second half pickup macro in Europe? And how much is in your control do you think to -- versus not -- I mean in terms of the degree to which you're covered at the low end of that range? Well it's always tougher of course because you have to make some kind of forecast about the economy.
So we're not assuming global recession for example.
And then all bets would be off if that were true.
So it's a little tougher to answer that way.
I would just say I feel pretty confident that our ability to deliver at this point with most of it being within our control.
And we're not counting on that much for the second half in Europe improving that much there because who knows.
It's kind of tough to say it's going to go dip but only for 6 months.
We hope that's the case.
But we're not counting on that.
We're kind of just assuming that it's a slow growth global economy the whole year.
Dave anything you want to add? I would just say that the -- one little added color Dave I would give to that is at ACS we're going to see a stronger Process and Building Solutions first half based on the backlog that we have.
We'll see a little stronger on a relative basis we're going to see a stronger second half ESS and if you will Products for ACS.
We'll actually see some of that benefit over the course of the year just in terms of margin rates and margin rate build for ACS.
In addition to the...
So it's not driven by macro...
No.
So much as it is we had about heating season for example and we don't expect a bad cooling -- we're not assuming a bad cooling season on top of a bad heating season.
Exactly.
Does that make sense Steve? LLC.
Research Division</strong> It does.
And then just digging into the ACS points that you raised.
We know -- there's obviously always the mix impact between the product and the -- or the new product definition and the solutions definition.
But as I recall you'd been making very strong headway within HBS and within HPS on margins dramatically over the last decade.
I mean so how much lift is that giving you continued or has that sort of -- are you at the point of diminishing returns on the margin front within each of those businesses? I'm not a believer that margins have ever peaked in the Honeywell portfolio.
I'd say in every business we still have pretty good runway that's not just limited to Process or Building Solutions.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> But specifically within those because those were the ones that were obviously lower by nature.
How are those progressing? They're progressing fine.
I would say if you said in Building Solutions will we evolved to a 20% margin at some point? The answer would be no.
That's not going to happen.
But we could still grow from where we are.
There's still runway there.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And that as I recall was just low double digits in that range? It is on the low side yes.
The Building Solutions and Distribution is a mid-single digit margin business Steve.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> The Process I meant.
The Process is double digit.
It's actually low teens.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
All right.
But there is a point though that we will see that favorability in terms of margin rate as we see that shift in terms of stronger products.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly on pricing versus inflation because I've been looking at that.
It looks to me like the trends are starting to reverse -- to become more positive on that front.
Are you guys -- how are you anticipating that developing over the year? Well we've actually always done pretty well there because as you know where we drive most a pricing improvement is from new products that add a lot more value to the customer.
I know that's an overused word out there but it can be true and we've been doing that.
So we don't expect that to change all that much.
Our next question comes from John Inch from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask about your guide for the year.
I mean I realize your history Dave is pretty conservative.
But it just seems a little almost too conservative.
Like a lot of companies are sort of calling out this week first quarter given the European issues given the compares.
The midpoint of your first quarter guide of up 11% is the high end of your annual guide of up 11% and your 4% to 6% revenue midpoint right? The midpoint is the low end of your -- I guess I'm just trying to understand.
I heard a little bit of some of this color but is there a way to just sort of think about first half second half and why up 5% EPS this year is even on the table? Well I think Steve -- or John rather I'm sorry.
There's a couple of things I think in that first quarter.
Number 1 I think we've referenced that we've got foreign currency headwind of a couple of points.
We've got also the CPG continuing operations comparison which is about $0.02.
And as you said if you look at the midpoint of our guide for the first quarter that translates into a very nice full year when you look at it in terms of our historic linearity.
And frankly when we look at the numbers on a full year basis both the implied organic growth in our guidance as well as the EPS growth in our guidance those trends tend to be very much in line -- in the ballpark.
We feel we're at the high end of the ballpark actually.
Research Division</strong> What -- I'm sorry what's the high end of the ballpark? The guidance that we've provided.
Research Division</strong> Meaning you -- you're meaning you're suggesting that the midpoint is the high end of what you think is reasonable? I'm sorry I don't mean to...
When we look at the range that we think we've provided for guidance in what's an uncertain economic environment we think compared to everybody else out there we tend to be more towards the high side.
And we don't like being too bullish on what we think the economy or currency is going to do or count on anything like that because we just don't think those things can turn against you too easily.
Research Division</strong> That's fair.
Dave Cote do you have contingency plans if things do turn down and the 5% which again doesn't seem realistic.
But if it comes more into the realm of possibility do you have contingency plans from what you would do vis-a-vis restructuring may not -- you obviously did a lot last year I'm just -- how do you think about this year in that basis? Well given what's going on over the last 4 years we always think in terms of having flexibility in both directions.
Because You just don't know.
And things could be better than what we think they're going to be and you need to be able to respond to upside also.
But conversely things could be worse.
And we need to be able to be prepared to respond that way.
So the big message at our Leadership Conference this year for example was the same as it has been for the last couple of years and that's flexibility.
You've got to be able to have flexibility in both directions.
Be very careful about how you hire but also be very careful about never going too far because you just don't know which way things are going to go.
And you have to be prepared.
You got to be on your toes.
You just don't know.
Research Division</strong> Just lastly what do you think normalized organic growth is at ACS? I mean I realized you see -- did 4% this quarter you got difficult resi and you've got the European issues.
But then you've got booming energy markets and you guys have done a great job with the new product introductions.
I mean if you were to kind of normalize a lot of factors how do you think about growth over the trend line in that business in that segment sorry? It's another one where it depends on what's the economy that's the backdrop to that.
So it's a tough one to answer.
And that's why the way we tend to always talk about it John is that we feel that given the end markets that we are in we can outperform our peers in any economic conditions.
Because we think we've done all the work that we need to to have great positions in good industries the One Honeywell 5 initiatives we keep working that.
That's put us in a better position to outperform.
But it is tough to say so what's the natural growth dynamic of the business because it depends on what global GDP is going to be.
I think one of the things Dave just to add to what you said is Roger has always said and I think we've seen numbers that bear this out at around 2x GDP in terms of the underlying growth rate of the business.
So that translates into pretty...
So we'll work to make that 2.5x GDP 3x GDP.
Our next question comes from Scott Davis from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Guys can we get an update on cost cuts and where we have headwinds and tailwinds things like ERP and other kind of discretionary or project-related costs.
Just to get a sense of where the tailwinds and headwinds are.
Boy I have a tough time thinking beyond what we already listed on -- We don't expect material inflation to be particularly onerous.
We don't expect labor inflation to be particularly onerous.
When it comes to any kind of major projects that we have there's no one that's so big that it drives the thinking of the company.
So I'm hard-pressed to think of anything that I find troublesome right now.
Research Division</strong> Even ERP? No.
I think we're at run rate on ERP.
I think kind of back to an earlier question Dave I think pricing will offset inflation.
We've got productivity obviously is a key driver in terms of our net margin expansions.
So we talk about margin expansion range for the company and we think it's going to be pretty attractive this year.
That's really driven by net productivity.
And there's no single item Scott that stands out.
R&amp;D we've talked about R&amp;D year-over-year 2010 to 2011 for Aerospace.
But as we talked about that really to moderate and if it goes up in absolute dollars it's steady as a percent of revenues in 2012.
So there's no single item I don't think I would point to.
In ERP we're close to done.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's more of a 2013 that rolls off and it gets easier then is that what you're saying? No you're saying that where there's a big benefit from not having to put -- continuing to invest in ERP? Research Division</strong> Yes.
And spending on duplicate systems derived.
I think we'll see some of that.
Again I wouldn't point to those something that's going to make our year for example.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No I understand.
I'm just trying to get a sense of the puts and takes.
But let's move on.
Defense and Space this may be perceived as kind of a strange question.
But does Defense and Space going down hurt margins or help margins when you think about the overall segment? I guess what I'm saying is you've got the fixed cost coverage issue with some contracts but you may be rolling off some lower margin contracts.
So when you think about Defense and Space down let's say down 4% or 5% in 2012 does that -- is that a tailwind to overall margins or a headwind? In my view it's -- because of the way pricing works there things tend to stay flat.
So good or bad it kind of stays where it is.
It's just part of the pricing model.
So I wouldn't expect to see a big boost or a big negative going in either direction.
Dave I would just say just in a word that it's summarizing and agreeing with what you said it's really neutral in terms of Aerospace margins.
And as I said earlier Scott we're going to see some margin lift obviously in Aerospace in the first quarter as well as for the full year 2012 despite -- we continue to anticipate it.
I think we've got it 4% to 5% down revenues for the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally just a quick one.
I mean your incremental margins in transportation I think were about 16% or so.
When I think about Turbo back in kind of the "glory days " if you will the last cycle margins were higher kind of 17% I think it was something that was talked about back -- a ways back and now a little bit lower.
What can get you there? I mean is it a different price environment where you just can't print that kind of margin anymore? Or can you get the volume pull-through to get back to those kind of glory day margins at some point in the next few years? Well we have -- there's another business in Transportation Systems.
Research Division</strong> Sure yes.
I understand that.
But given how important Turbo is there's no way the Turbo margins could be -- well I guess there is a way but...
We had -- to Dave's point though we did have headwinds in the quarter from our Friction business which encountered a pretty significant commodity cost increase.
And it's the type of business and the kind of environment where it just -- you just can't pass through or pass through as much clearly as what you are impacted by so you need to absorb that.
So really most of what we've talked about Scott in terms of that phenomena of what you would expected in conversion of the business versus historic is really explained by Friction.
Our next question comes from Steve Tusa from JPMorgan.
[Technical Difficulty] We will move onto our next question.
Our next question comes from Deane Dray from Citi.
Research Division</strong> I want to get some more color on some of the key geographies you touched on this in the prepared remarks both between Europe and China.
And for Europe you first started talking about this in September with some of the softer signs of destocking in the Building Solutions Distribution.
How has that played out and beyond just the European Auto lower production expectations? So you're just talking about Auto or...
Research Division</strong> No.
Just broadly the conditions in Europe.
Because at first you talked about the softness was in September where you first started to seeing some of the destocking.
It sounds like that's the same conditions that you've been facing in the fourth quarter and just at the margin how has that played out? Yes.
The way I would describe it is if we went back to that August-September time frame we actually saw Europe orders dip go negative for about 2 weeks.
So we start to get really concerned and that it bounced right back.
At this time I'd say it's been negative for about 6 to 7 weeks in a row.
So if it were me I'm not an economist but I would say they're in a recession now.
It might not be a big one like we all hope it won't be.
But I would say they're in recession now and that's the way we're thinking about it.
We're thinking about the whole year as being a slight recession in Europe.
Deane if I could add just a little bit to Dave's comments on Europe.
As I mentioned earlier we've got some important differences obviously when you look across the portfolio because Aerospace Dave as you know the commercial aftermarket business is...
They're doing fine.
Is doing very well.
So that's very important to know.
The other thing is in Transportation Systems because of -- in Turbo because of the strength of our position and our wins and new platforms we actually continue to see volume good volume growth there.
Strong double digits.
Strong double digits.
So what Dave is really referencing which is really correct in kind of where you started Deane with your question is really when you look at some of the traditional energy kind of Life Safety and Security segments of the business that's where we're seeing it most pronounced.
Well maybe I misunderstood your question Deane.
I thought what you're trying to get is a sense for is Europe's economic environment.
What are we seeing  or what did we think was going on there.
Research Division</strong> No that addressed it.
And I just want to see did it start to -- the destocking and the shorter cycle stuff was expected and had you seen it begin to worm into some push-outs and any of your longer cycle businesses and it doesn't sound like that's happened.
No that has not occurred.
Research Division</strong> And then how about over in China.
And broadly you said the emerging markets is up 20% but then you gave some data points on ACS softer October November in HVAC.
But what -- and you wouldn't be the first company this earnings season to say that it's seeing a slowdown in the fourth quarter but how are you characterizing the business today? I would say I'm very glad that we've got the kind of presence that we do -- that we have in China and it keeps growing.
We were up very strong double digit in China again this quarter and we expect that to continue this year.
Yes.
What we cited Deane when we -- when I went through my review of ACS.
I cited the fact again on the ECC side we've seen we've experienced softness.
And we've seen basically the softness in the resi side on the Tier 1 and Tier 2 cities.
So that is not a surprise at all given the headlines in terms of commercial real estate et cetera what the government's doing in terms of government policy.
On the other hand as I cited we're also seeing growth and some recovery in the Turbo commercial vehicle business.
We've seen some softness on Fluorines but we've seen continued relative strength on resins and chemicals.
So it's again you kind of have to get a little bit specific.
But the common theme I think between Europe and China is the sort of the short cycle energy the combustion and the residential and the commercial markets and the retrofit markets have been softer.
So that's where we've really seen the softness.
But as Dave cited overall when you look at the overall numbers for Honeywell for China they look very good.
Very good.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And just last a data point.
You provided a backlog number I think for the first time in the third quarter on your longer-cycle businesses it was $16 billion.
Did you provide the update for how you ended the year? Yes.
So backlog is about the same in terms of end of year for the total company Deane.
And U.S.
continues to be very strong.
Just a side a couple of the specifics there in terms of the ending backlog and this is comparing to the fourth quarter of 2010.
On the ATR side it's up 26%; BGA up 24%; and at UOP as I mentioned earlier up 10%.
So those are pretty good I think demonstrations.
And by the way the other interesting number is Defense and Space backlog it's actually up 4%.
So we've had across the board good positive momentum on the long-cycle business.
Our next question comes from Steve Tusa from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just back to the backlog.
Last year and you gave this number in your 10-Ks the number kind of to-be-shipped for the coming year.
I think last year you had a backlog of 14 616 and the to-be-shipped number was about 10 600.
What's the to-be-shipped number this year do you guys have that at hand there? I don't have that one at hand sorry Steve.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is it materially different as a percentage of the backlog? Did that stick out at all when you were going through your numbers at the end of the year? What I would say though Steve is when we look at the quarters the 4 5 quarters out and we take a look at percentage of sales already in backlog and it's better this year than it was last year.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Because when I kind of do the math on the I guess what I would consider to be book and ship just to come for the next year.
And you kind of subtract out that number the percentage of backlog to be shipped and you just basically get to the book and ship number it looks to me like kind of the midpoint of your range is up kind of low-single digits and the high end is up 5%.
Last year I think it grew in the mid-teens.
I guess this is just reflective of what you guys were talking about kind of some of the uncertainty in Europe and some of the macro concerns that are clearly at play with others in the group as well? Yes.
I think generally I think you'd say that Steve to your point is you've got long cycle strength and then short cycle moderating.
So that -- it's really the blend of those 2 that really represent that full year 4% to 7% up in terms of revenue guidance.
And that number is probably a bigger percentage of our total revenue base in 2012 versus what it was in 2011.
Right.
Exactly.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Right right.
I mean I still think if you guys are going 1% in that business I think we're -- we would might all be in trouble from an economic perspective.
One last question just on the ACS margin.
Clearly a very strong conversion.
Anything kind of unusual because now you're stepping down to the 25% in -- maybe I missed it in the comments.
But you're stepping down to I don't know around the 25% incremental in the first quarter.
Can you maybe help us to just break out a couple of the big moving parts there what kind of impacted you the most? Well I think first of all we were lapping a relatively not-strong conversion in the fourth quarter of 2010.
The other thing we had is and we've referenced is we had positives in terms of M&amp;A so we didn't -- the Sperian acquisition and some other things Steve that benefited us 2011 compared to 2010.
So that was a very strong quarter as anticipated for EPS.
And when you look at the first quarter what you've got is you've got some -- now M&amp;A headwinds because you've got EMS as well as the King's acquisition you've gotten a mixed headwind.
I know Dave doesn't like me to talk about that.
But the reality is we're going to have a stronger Process versus -- and Solutions business the BDS business compared to the ESS in the first quarter.
That's just the phenomena that's occurring there.
So it's really those things that are causing it.
The other thing you got is you've got foreign currency now going the other direction and that's a big item for ACS.
When you look across FX impact in the total company it isn't just the euro.
It's also the Australian dollar it's the Indian rupee it's the Canadian dollar and they're really being impacted as we've seen a strengthening of all of these currencies relative to the dollars as we progressed through the final month of 2011.
Research Division</strong> And sorry what was your order growth in HPS and then I'll hop off? Tell me again? Research Division</strong> What was your order growth in HPS Honeywell Process? 11% organic in the quarter.
Our next question comes from Nigel Coe from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So Dave you called out an interesting data point.
I think you said 40% long cycle 60% in short cycle in Europe is that correct? I'm sorry? Research Division</strong> I think you called out your European sales as 40% long cycle and 60% short cycle.
Yes I referenced that.
That's right.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
That's interesting.
So of that long cycle about how much of that is Aerospace? It's a very small portion of it.
There's a -- well obviously both BGA and ETR.
But the biggest pieces there are really in our Solutions business and also in UOP.
Research Division</strong> Okay interesting.
And then in your 2012 outlook slides you had that chart showing the sequential trends in your short-cycle orders.
I mean we're only one month into 2012 but how would you characterize those sequential trends on short cycle? Would you say that's stabilized or are they still moving down a little bit? I would say that we're seeing in terms if you're talking specifically in terms of what we're seeing to date in the short-cycle businesses? Research Division</strong> Exactly.
Yes.
Well I think it's sort of -- unfortunately it sort of an it depends.
I mean when you look at the Aero business it's very good Nigel.
We talked about that in terms of just the continued strength that we're seeing in the Aerospace aftermarket.
We're seeing good numbers in terms of Turbo HTT.
Elena has cited that in terms of double digit continued strong double digit.
The softness again as I've talked about earlier is really in the ESS selectively within the ESS businesses at ACS.
That's really where we've seen the most change in terms of moderation of growth or even in some segments some market segments decline.
And some pricing headwinds in Advanced Material.
Yes good.
You're right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But would you say they've found a floor at this point or are they still moving a little bit softer sequentially? I think in terms of our planning from a planning standpoint as you can see from all of the numbers the guidance that we've given you is we've given you revenue growth across the businesses.
So I think the answer really is that what we're seeing is that we're going to continue to see growth in all of our businesses.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I hate to be a nerd but a question on your effective tax rate on the mark-to-market.
It's past 37% on the 2010 mark-to-market and it's up quite a bit from 2010.
Again bear with me here but it means first of all why would that tax rate move up? And then secondly is that similar to the tax shield you get on your pension contributions? Well what it is -- it's just reflective if you look at 2011's mark-to-market versus 2010's is the higher distribution in U.S.
as opposed to foreign entities.
So that's just what drove the rate up.
That's why we're working on comprehensive tax reform in the U.S.
Research Division</strong> And is that the same tax shield you get on your cash contributions? I'm sorry? Research Division</strong> Is that the similar tax shields that you actually get on your pension cash contributions? Yes that would be a pretty good proxy.
Our next question comes from Howard Rubel from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dave I wanted -- just sort of package these 2 items together.
Could you address sort of the progress of the restructuring and then some of the capital spending plans? I know you outlined at the end of the year a step-up in CapEx and clearly some of that's going to lead to either more productivity.
But if you could sort of tell us where you're targeting it and update us on some of the progress with the restructuring I'd appreciate that please.
Well the restructuring Howard is on track.
We go through -- just a little bit of background as you know we go through a very thorough vetting and fuse with our businesses and roll that up in a disciplined process and review individual -- every individual project with Dave.
There's a lot of dialogue a lot of pushback that ultimately culminates in anything that gets approved.
And it means that it's in a business where there's strategic justification it has operational merit and on the major projects we go back and we actually review that performance and we report out that performance in terms of how we're doing relative to what we've committed.
So we'll be doing in 2012 for example reviews of major projects.
The second thing is in terms of the CapEx so you should take the first to say that's all as you would expect it's all working as you would expect.
Relative to the CapEx what we're looking at is a ramp-up in 2012 in terms of our plan and that plan if you looked that in the terms of type of projects really think of it as growth.
What we're really doing is we're really funding particularly in global markets we're funding increased presence whether it's technical centers or operating facilities or joint ventures funding in terms of joint ventures.
If you look at it by business it's really kind of across the businesses in terms of the increases with the greatest percentage increase coming in PMT associated with a scarcity in terms of capacity to meet global demand and the outlook for those -- for a number of the technologies in PMT.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then while you talked about growth might you Mr.
Cote give us a little bit of sense of where you're targeting or what kind of projects you see for 2012 for both UOP and HPS? I think those continue to be very strong growth vehicles and is the activity as good for '12 as you've seen in '11? Yes.
We won't go into any specific projects that we're addressing.
But I would say yes the demand is still very much out there.
And even though the refining industry in total only grows 2 or 3% a year the churn is going on within that especially outside developed market is huge.
And we don't see that diminishing at all.
When you couple that with the new technologies that our guys have come up with like this Uniflex that we were talking about earlier to refine the bottom of the barrel.
That's going to be even more useful to refineries that already do exist.
So I just -- I think this is going to be a market that stays bullish for a while.
And then all the natural gas that everybody is finding which as you know we made some early plays there and I think those have been proven to be pretty smart overall.
So yes those feel very good.
Our final question comes from Jeff Sprague from Vertical Research.
So last bullet on the last page of the slide update on progress of long-term targets already ahead of plan.
You've already crossed over the top of the range in Performance Materials.
Is there -- if you think about the other 3 segments are there any that stand out as being kind of noticeably above where you expected them to be if you think about kind of the ratable improvement you need over the next 3 years to get there? We think we're pretty much on track as a company and with those -- the other 3 businesses.
So Performance Materials you're right it did manage to get there very early.
But they also had some pricing uniqueness that they were able to get last year that we're not confident is going to be able to continue on to the future.
And the other businesses are going to have the kind of basic volume of the business is going to have to make that happen.
So all in all we feel we're pretty much on track.
And then just on the project work it does look like the Process business is kind of back to some of its old historic strength of long ago.
But you also remarked on competitive projects and I just wonder how you feel actually about the organization's project management and making sure what your booking in the backlog is actually as profitable as you think and what's -- kind of what's going on in the pricing environment on large projects? Well I'm pretty confident in our ability to first of all forecast what the profitability is going to be on a project and then to actually deliver what that's going to be.
And I would say if you went back 10 years ago that was not a strength of ours and we did get surprised.
That's one of the things that we had to fix.
I feel pretty confident now.
When you take a look at the big projects that we do they pretty much come out where we think they're going to.
So I'm very much okay with that.
And yes things can get more competitive.
But it just means you need to decide to walk away sometimes which we may do.
In other times you figure out how to be more competitive.
So I feel pretty good Jeff about our ability to do that now.
And then just finally on capital allocation.
Obviously you got a be mindful of pension and maybe NARCO but what should we kind of expect for the balance over the course of the year? Is there a bolt-on pipeline or might you be in the market picking up some stock along the way? Well I'd say our answer is going to be boringly consistent with what we've said for the last 10 years and that's that we'll be opportunistic about it.
We want to pay a good dividend.
We always have a robust pipeline of opportunities so that you never know when one is going to come up or not.
And we still think our stock is attractively priced.
So we'll as we go through the course of the year we'll decide what the best way is to deploy that capital.
Like I said it's very boringly consistent Jeff which I hope becomes a strength of ours in your eyes.
All right.
Thank you for your participation today.
I do want to turn the call back over to Dave Cote for any final comments.
But as usual I will be available throughout the day for your questions.
Dave? Thanks.
Well we're pleased with our performance last year and we're encouraged by our ability to outperform again in 2012.
Having great positions in good industries the focus on One Honeywell and the continued evolution in our 5 initiatives makes us a better company every year.
That continuity of purpose and strategy allows us to outperform in any economic conditions and puts us in a position where we can say as good as it's been the best is yet to come.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Honeywell's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Elena Doom Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Stephanie.
Good morning and welcome to Honeywell's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Here with me today are Chairman and CEO Dave Cote; and Senior Vice President and CFO Dave Anderson.
This call and this webcast including any non-GAAP reconciliations are available on our website at www.honeywell.com/investor.
Note that elements of today's presentation do contain forward-looking statements that are based on our best view of the world and of our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change and we would ask that you interpret them in that light.
We also identify the principal risks and uncertainties that affect our performance in our Form 10-K and other SEC filings.
This morning we will review our financial results for the first quarter of 2012 as well as share with you our outlook for the second quarter and updated full year 2012 and of course allow time for your questions.
With that I'll turn the call over to Dave Cote.
What a wonderful start to 2012.
We had better-than-expected performance across a number of our different businesses driving EPS above the top end of our guidance range and it is great to start with such a nice burst of cabbage.
Sales were strong at $9.3 billion representing 7% reported growth and that's on top of good growth last year.
Organic growth of 6% was also strong.
This performance in a more challenging macro environment underscores the value of the diversity of opportunity across our businesses short- and long-cycle exposure our products and services and geographies.
As expected our short-cycle businesses posted slower growth this quarter particularly in Europe and to a lesser extent China.
However our long-cycle businesses particularly Commercial Aerospace and UOP overdrove expectations.
We also saw terrific margin expansion in the quarter with segment margins up 70 basis points to 15.2% with strong sales conversion across the portfolio.
As we highlighted in our March Investor Conference we've made margin growth a bigger element of how we incentivize our people so everyone's focused on it and interests are aligned.
Given the strength of our first quarter financial performance we are raising our full year guidance $0.05 on the high end and $0.10 on the low end.
We now expect earnings to be in the range of $4.35 to $4.55 per share up approximately 9% to 14% versus prior year on a continuing ops basis meaning adjusting for the CPG divestiture.
We think this represents a very strong outlook for the year.
And while we recognize the macro uncertainties that remain ahead we are confident in our ability to continue executing on growth and productivity opportunities.
As part of that execution mainstay our seed planting initiatives have paved the way for exciting new wins including an exclusive agreement with Inmarsat a global satellite service provider to provide airlines and OEMs all of the onboard hardware needed to access Inmarsat's Internet connectivity service.
Global online services for commercial biz av and government customers will be available in 2014 and the contract is valued at an estimated $2.8 billion over the next few decades.
We acquired EMS Technologies looking at the trends around aircraft connectivity.
And so far that's paid off really well.
With a combination of their broad technology offering and our execution capabilities we emerged the perfect partner to launch the Inmarsat global connectivity network.
Our Aero team did just a great job.
And in ACS Building Solutions launched Attune a suite of professional services that combines cloud-based tools and analytics to help owners and operators reduce energy bills by as much as 20%.
And we're seeing terrific uptake.
And in PMT we continue to invest in high ROI projects including this quarter the expansion of a UOP absorbent and catalyst facility focused on the removal of radioactive material from liquids.
These are currently being used in Japan in response to last year's nuclear disaster.
The expansion also supports the production of a new absorbent and catalyst used by petrochemical producers and refiners.
So in summary we're off to a great start in 2012 despite the more challenging macro environment.
And while our shorter-cycle businesses have seen an impact from the slowdowns in Europe and China we're encouraged by the strength we're seeing in the U.S.
other high-growth regions and long-cycle.
New product introductions have also helped our shorter-cycle businesses grow faster than the markets served which coupled with accelerating growth in our longer-cycle businesses is leading to top-tier organic growth.
We're going to keep doing the things we consistently talk about including seed planting for growth and focusing on our key process initiatives and continued strength of execution.
In other words staying hungry smart disciplined and flexible.
So with that I'll turn it over to Dave.
Thanks Dave.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
As Dave said it certainly feels good to report another strong quarter with sales of $9.3 billion representing 6% organic growth in the quarter.
Let's just go through some of the highlights on Slide 4.
As you can see we saw very strong performance from our longer-cycle businesses including Aerospace and UOP which more than offset slower growth in some of our short-cycle businesses.
Regionally we saw solid growth in the Americas up 8% reported 5% organically as well as continued strong performance in our high-growth regions which were up approximately 20% in the quarter.
And as expected Europe was slower posting only 1% organic growth.
And if you exclude Aerospace from that Europe would have been down approximately 3% organically.
So really in line with our expectations.
China sales were up approximately 20% driven by strong gains in both UOP and in Aerospace.
Segment profit $1.4 billion.
It's up 12% versus the prior year with segment margins as Dave said expanding an impressive 70 basis points to 15.2% in the quarter.
This represents approximately 25% revenue conversion reflecting tremendous productivity as well as giving us a clear path to achieving our full year margin targets.
Below the line was largely as expected.
The good news is we funded approximately $25 million in attractive repositioning projects more than planned and these will begin to deliver benefits beginning in 2012 the latter part of this year.
Earnings per share at a $1.04 up 18% on a reported basis 21% on a continuing ops basis.
So the better-than-expected performance largely is a result of stronger sales conversion this quarter and obviously leveraging slightly better sales.
Free cash flow came in at $300 million which excludes approximately $250 million of pension contributions cash pension contributions that we made in the quarter.
Decreased customer advances; higher capital spending particularly in PMT where we invest in capacity expansion and debottlenecking; were the primary drivers of the lower cash performance in the year.
We remain confident in our full year free cash flow forecast for the year which will approximately -- approximate about 100% of free cash flow conversion.
So we remain confident in our ability to do that.
Slide #5 Aerospace.
Take some -- take a moment to go through the highlights of each of the businesses starting with Aero.
Aero sales grew 9% in the quarter 8% organically to almost $3.0 billion.
We saw continued strength in our commercial end markets with Commercial OE and aftermarket strength accounting for most of the gains while Defense and Space was down slightly.
Now on the Commercial OE side sales were up 22% 18% organically if you exclude the EMS acquisition benefits.
The increases were particularly strong in BGA.
BGA OE up 41% driven by strong demand in the mid to large cabin aircraft segment where Honeywell as you know has an outsized share of content.
And on the ATR side we saw the benefits of growth in both Boeing and Airbus deliveries resulting from the ongoing ramp in production rates.
On the aftermarket the commercial aftermarket sales were up 16% in the quarter.
Strong gains in both spares as well as R&amp;O.
Operators continue to depend on older aircraft to service the steady increases in passenger demand and we're seeing those benefits.
We've had 8 consecutive quarters now of double-digit spares growth driven by continued increases in air traffic uptake of selectables and also safety and efficiency upgrades.
But of course as a reminder since we're now lapping spares and R&amp;O levels above prior peak demand we expect the aftermarket growth to moderate as the comps get tougher over the remainder of the year.
Defense and Space sales were down 1% in the quarter 3% -- approximately down 3% organically driven primarily by lower service revenues as we lapped the prior year program completions and also some ramp downs partially offset by growth in international defense.
For the full year we expect declines of approximately 5% reflecting the current fiscal budgetary conditions and reprogramming expected to be felt more in the second half of the year.
We'll talk about that more later when we talk about second half and full year guidance.
Aerospace margins expanded 80 basis points in the quarter to 18.1% largely driven by strong commercial aftermarket volume partially offset by higher investments in the quarter in R&amp;D.
Let's go now to Slide 6 for the highlights for ACS for the quarter.
ACS sales were up 4% reported 3% organic with the favorable impact of acquisitions more than offsetting foreign exchange headwinds.
Top line performance was largely as expected in ACS with acceleration in the long-cycle businesses more than offsetting headwinds in some of our short-cycle businesses.
Now the expectation continues to be for slower organic growth in the first half for ACS compared to the second half.
And again we'll give you some more of that in a moment.
But first just a little bit more in the quarter.
Energy Safety and Security sales ESS while up on a reported basis were down 1% organically driven by lower ECC and S&amp;C sales partially offset by strong growth in Scanning &amp; Mobility as well as in Security.
As expected ECC sales were weak in all regions driven by soft residential markets in Europe in China compounded by the weak HVAC markets in the U.S.
that we've been planning for especially in light of the mild winter.
The good news here is we expect some modest improvement in ECC in the second half as we move out of the heating season which has obviously been extraordinarily mild and affected everybody in the industry.
Scanning &amp; Mobility growth on the other hand was robust in ACS particularly in the Americas as we've seen the benefit of channel gains and also strength in strategic accounts supported by new product introductions.
Security also saw notable growth in North America.
Intrusion and total Americas sales for Security up approximately 10%.
Process Solution sales were up 9% organically with solid gains in all regions.
The high-growth regions including the Middle East and Asia were standouts; while growth in the developed markets more tempered.
Process Solutions also contributed to ACS' overall margin expansion in the quarter.
The Building Solutions &amp; Distribution segment of ACS or BSD sales were up 5% organically driven by strong Americas fire and security distribution sales partially offset by slower growth in the European commercial retrofit projects.
Just take a minute -- it's not on the slide but just take a minute talk a little bit more about the regional cut for ACS.
Regarding Europe we had anticipated short-cycle weakness in 2012.
That's playing out.
The first quarter outlook where ACS business conditions were particularly challenging and we anticipate only modest improvement in Europe in that segment in the second half.
Regarding China the Energy Security and Safety sales got off to a slow start ESS with declines across most of the end markets most notably ECC as well as Scanning &amp; Mobility due to deceleration in infrastructure investments soft commercial construction.
And also there we had difficult year-over-year comps.
However there are signs of improvement and we expect a resumption of growth within that segment within China in the second half of the year.
And finally on the Americas as we said very solid growth year-over-year with increases in both orders and revenues.
Scanning &amp; Mobility led the way with over 20% growth although security sensors [ph] and control Process Solutions and BSD all saw above-average growth in Americas in the first quarter.
Looking at margins ACS expanded margins 40 basis points to 13% primarily driven by productivity improvements.
Benefits from prior period positioning contributing to that repositioning contributing as well as disciplined cost controls within ACS.
Those coupled with the acquisition-integration benefits net of inflation contributed to the margin expansion.
Revenue conversion for the segment for ACS was 26% and 32% if you exclude the impact of recent acquisitions as well as foreign exchange headwinds.
Let's go now to PMT Slide #7.
Performance Materials and Technologies continued their strong growth trends in the first quarter.
Growth was up 19% 12% organic led by better-than-expected sales at UOP and also higher volumes in Resins and Chemicals.
UOP results which as you know can be lumpy from quarter-to-quarter led the way with outstanding growth up 40% supported by better-than-expected catalyst volumes and also licensing events.
Further we continued to see robust orders at UOP where orders are up over 50% in the quarter driven by continued strong demand in both refining and petrochemical segments providing further foundation obviously for future growth.
Now we anticipate a very strong first half for UOP particularly given the expected timing of certain catalyst shipments and will transition to a more modest second half for that business.
Advanced Materials sales were up 10% in the quarter on a reported basis although roughly flat organically.
Plan-to-execution was strong across the board.
R&amp;C benefited from higher volumes despite softer market conditions in Asia.
Now weaker demand in Europe and Asia contributed to lower sales in specialty products as expected.
Fluorine sales were impacted unfavorably by the negative year-over-year pricing due to overall supply conditions.
And again no surprise there.
So kind of in summary a great quarter for PMT.
Margins up nearly 20% despite the headwinds and better-than-anticipated for the quarter.
So better than we initially guided.
And obviously Andreas and the team just continued to do a great job executing on growth and profitability levels while also continuing to invest in the business.
Let's finish then with the business segments on Slide 8 with Transportation Systems.
In the quarter TS sales increased 1% on an organic basis but declined 1% on a reported basis.
And it represents solid performance driven by a significant number of new product launches in the face of challenging macro headwinds with European light vehicle production down nearly 8% in the quarter and also very difficult aftermarket conditions in Europe.
Turbo sales were up slightly on an organic basis with new business launches a favorable mix of platforms and increased Turbo penetration offsetting OE production declines allowing us to outperform in this market.
Regionally Europe was up 2% organic in Turbo with mixed performance across the board with a cross section of customers.
North America saw a good growth.
However it was impacted by the mix of light trucks and also commercial vehicles in the quarter.
So going forward we're going to continue to see increased Turbo penetration as a growth driver in all of the segments and all classes of vehicles.
Asia had strong growth excluding China which continues to be impacted by a weak commercial vehicles market although we believe the worst of those declines are now behind us and we're expecting to lap lower comps in the second half of the year.
Of course what's impressive here is that TS experienced on essentially flat revenues margin expansion of 40 basis points largely driven by productivity gains including the benefits from prior period repositioning actions.
So with that review of the segments let's go to Slide 9 and let's discuss expectations for the second quarter.
Summarizing sort of at the bottom first before going through each of the businesses we're planning for total sales in the second quarter to be in the range of $9.4 billion to $9.6 billion up 4% to 6% from the prior year reflecting good organic growth.
And EPS in the range of $1.09 to $1.13 up 9% to 13% on a continuing ops basis.
Just a couple of points on each of the businesses.
Aerospace sales in the second quarter are expected to be up 6% to 8% driven by continued strength in the commercial businesses partially offset by lower sales in Defense and Space.
And again as a reminder we expect Commercial OE growth to continue to ramp reflecting strong year-over-year gains while the commercial aftermarket growth will begin to moderate due to tougher comps although still outpacing flight hours.
In ACS for the quarter for the second quarter we're forecasting sales up 2% to 4% reflecting stable growth in both Process Solutions and BSD and modest improvement in ESS as a result of stabilization in some of our short-cycle end markets.
So considering these factors in addition to the healthy long-cycle backlog conversion we anticipate growth will accelerate through the second half of the year for ACS.
And more about that in a few moments.
For PMT sales are estimated to be up 13% to 15% driven by continued strength in UOP the phenol plant acquisition and also moderate organic growth in Advanced Materials.
Pricing is expected to remain a headwind overall for PMT in the second quarter although we do see opportunities selectively in certain end markets.
Transportation sales are forecasted to be down about 7% to 9% largely driven by unfavorable impact of a weaker euro.
Excluding foreign currency headwinds we anticipate sales essentially flat for TS against the backdrop of continued lower European light vehicle production which is expected to be 9% -- down 9% in the second quarter.
Now our outlook continues to assume European production down 8% for the year which we recognize may be more on the conservative side relative to some of the other estimates that you'll see.
However we think we're -- what we're seeing to-date suggests that the challenging conditions there will continue throughout this year.
So for Honeywell in total second quarter sales again 4% to 6% slightly less than the first quarter up 4% to 6%.
Another good quarter of revenue conversion and segment profit growth driving earnings per share our expectation 9% to 13% up on a continuing ops basis.
Let's now go to the full year guidance to give a little more color to the raise that Dave took us through in his introductory comments.
Slide #10.
As you can see from the table we've revised our full year guidance obviously reflecting the strength of our first quarter results as well as what we believe is a balanced-er view at this stage for the remainder of 2012.
We expect sales now to be in the range of $38 billion to $38.6 billion for the year with slightly better than originally planned sales conversion driving segment margins slightly higher than original guidance.
We're now expecting expanding margins from 60 to 80 basis points over 2011.
It's clearly a testament to the quality of our earnings outlook and the ability of the organization to execute on key product -- key productivity levers and Dave obviously a reflection too of the emphasis and the focus that we're putting on margin and margin expansion.
And as Dave referenced earlier we're also now expecting EPS in the range of $4.35 to $4.55 which reflects an increase of $0.10 to the low end $0.05 to the high end of our previous guidance.
So on a continuing ops basis again adjusting for CPG we see earnings up 9% to 14% for the year which I think is solid performance very solid performance against any comparative group.
So now let's walk through some of the key planning.
Just go to the bottom of the page on the planning assumptions.
Some of the first half second half dynamics at play.
Starting with Aerospace.
As we've said second half sales are expected to moderate due to the tougher commercial aftermarket comps and the more outsized Defense and Space headwinds.
Defense sales are planned down for the second half somewhere in the range of 6% to 8% versus approximately 2% in the first half.
Again built up on detail based upon programmatic detail.
In ACS we're anticipating better organic growth from the short-cycle products businesses in the second half with stabilized end market conditions as well as easier second half comps.
The long-cycle businesses are expected to be more of the same.
So good overall growth for ACS in the second half.
As we've said for PMT we're planning for overall slower organic growth in the second half against tough comps driven by UOP which has experienced a strong -- very strong first quarter.
And we expect again a strong quarter for UOP in the second quarter.
So UOP is tracking ahead of our originally -- original planning framework which is more skewed now to the first half.
And in Advanced Materials we've lapped the acquisition of the phenol plant however better organic growth is expected as a result of moderately improved end markets.
Now the second half organic growth is expected to improve in Transportation Systems driven by continued uptick of new launches offsetting lower European light vehicle production as well as what we anticipate to be continued weak relatively weak commercial vehicle markets in China.
So in summary while uncertainties remain obviously in the global macro environment we're bolstered by the continued strength of our execution which is characterized by stronger sales conversion productivity gains supporting that conversion and the seed planting that we continue to do successfully for our future.
So finally in summary on Slide #7 before turning it back over to Elena for Q&amp;A we're encouraged obviously by the ongoing positive trend in Commercial Aerospace both OE and aftermarket with aftermarket growth sustaining well above flight hours.
Industrial strength in high-growth regions continue to be the bright spots with UOP and Aero fueling strong double-digit growth.
Turbo is benefiting from their strong industry position and platform launches roughly offsetting greater European light vehicle production declines.
And our long-cycle businesses continue to deliver offsetting a mixed short-cycle order book.
We're continuing to execute on our strategies in sustaining growth investments and seed planting for the future.
We're expecting continued good organic growth and strong sales conversion with continued traction on Commercial and R&amp;D effectiveness all while controlling our fixed costs through OEF as reflected in the terrific margin expansion we saw across the company in the first quarter.
So to put it in perspective we're targeting double-digit earnings growth in 2012 from continuing ops underscoring the organization's ability to be a top-tier performer with a balanced portfolio of short- and long-cycle businesses delivering above-average growth and continued margin expansion.
And we think this revised outlook reflects again a balanced view of the global economic environment including where we see strength and where we see opportunities across the Honeywell portfolio.
So with that Elena I'll turn it over to you for Q&amp;A.
Thanks Dave.
So Stephanie we now like to open up the line for our first question.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Scott Davis from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Pretty straightforward quarter.
One of the things you called out in ACS was weak Europe and weak China.
And I guess my question is is this sequentially weaker or just continues to be sluggish? I would say continues to be sluggish.
We first saw Europe -- I think we were talking about this back in December.
We started to see weakness there and that weakness has continued and it's consistent with what we forecasted to the year.
We said back then that we were going to assume Europe was in recession for the whole year.
And unfortunately I think we're going to be right.
Fortunately we planned for it.
China is also I'd say pretty consistent with what we said so I wouldn't say we're seeing anything consistently -- or any declamation there Dave? No.
I think the only thing I would add is Dave that we did see -- as we exited the first quarter we did see some strengthening in some of our ACS short-cycle businesses.
And strip.
And so too early to say that that's a trend but it's obviously encouraging Scott.
Just some additional color it's obviously encouraging in light of what we think is still a very balanced -- appropriately prudent guidance.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I mean it's going to be in my follow-on really is that when you think about the potential upside you have for the rest of the year it seems like ACS is a bit of a wild card.
I mean do you think this is -- this quarter ends up being the low-water mark for organic growth? I mean I know you're saying 2% to 4% for 2Q but that seems pretty conservative.
We certainly hope so Scott.
Straightforward is the best that we get from you? Research Division</strong> You're doing a great job.
Stocks up 4%.
What do you want.
Oh thank you.
So I got to beg for crying out loud.
Our next question comes from Shannon O'Callaghan from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Maybe first on the R&amp;D in Aero it was 100 basis points of pressure there.
Could you give a little more color on -- was that kind of some opportunistic stuff? Or what are you going after there? And is that -- how should we think about I guess a run rate in terms of the R&amp;D pressure there? Well the way I think about it is we're winning a lot.
And just seeing the Inmarsat one which is not one we would have forecasted 6 months ago it's one the guys had started working on we continue to win stuff.
And I guess all I'd say is it's just one of those things that we're going to manage in the total context of Aero.
We're sure going to find a way to support all those wins.
Yes I'll just add Shannon to what Dave said.
I mean the good part of it obviously is it's driven -- as Dave said it's driven by the success that we're having in the marketplace.
The second thing is that looking over the course of 2012 we expect for Aerospace while up on the dollars to be basically even with 2011 in terms of R&amp;D percent.
So maybe some pressure on that as the year progresses but it's not something that -- I think it works itself way -- through over the course of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I mean on UOP you pointed out the lumpiness which obviously we're all familiar with.
But you have several quarters here in a row of some pretty monster numbers.
I mean can you maybe give a little more color on geographically and by sort of end market customer the parts of that story that are not quarterly lumpiness and that are more of a continuing driver here? Well Id say the reload side of it consist -- continues to -- what you think of as more ongoing continues to get better.
But there -- these guys are -- they're winning all around the world.
There's no one thing that I would point to that that's driving all of it.
I suppose some of the Oleflex wins are -- we could point to.
That's been just stellar.
But all in all they're winning across the board.
Dave anything...
Yes I would just say that the queue is robust on the catalyst side of the business right now.
And we're also going to have in the first half this year a very strong royalty revenues as well for UOP.
Obviously as we've guided the growth percent is not going to be there the same way in the second half Shannon for UOP just as a result of that very very strong first half.
Our next question comes from Jeff Sprague from Vertical Research.
Just a couple of questions.
Dave Anderson I don't actually think you said the flight hour numbers in the quarter.
If you did I missed them.
Could you let us know what those were and what you're expecting for the year? Jeff I think around 3.5 for ATR in the quarter.
And we're expecting in that range Jeff in the 4% range for the full year.
Stronger by the way on BGA.
And as I talked about BGA was strong not only on the OE side.
It was also very strong on the -- or on the aftermarket side I'm sorry.
So good -- very good quarter for Commercial Aerospace the aftermarket in total.
And is there a way on this Inmarsat deal for us to think about ship set value or some methodology like that to get our head around the opportunity? I don't have that on my fingertips Jeff.
I don't if we normally would disclose that.
But I can promise you it's a good one and it is a nice bluebird.
Right.
And then I just -- wondering on ACS obviously there is going to be FX and M&amp;A moving around all the time.
But stripping that away is something with the 3 handle on it what we should kind of expect going forward? I think historically you said maybe it's closer to 25 or even low 20s.
Is that number moving up to some of the things you talked about at your Investor Day kind of work their way through the portfolio here? Yes.
So Jeff you're referencing revenue conversion for ACS? Yes.
Yes.
No I think that the number that we talked about the 20s mid-20s is a very good target for ACS.
Okay.
And then just one last thing.
Can you update us on what you see for restructuring benefits rolling through in 2012 based on the actions in '11 and the few things you did here in the quarter? Yes.
Look we'll look that up for you.
The...
We still [indiscernible]? We did.
While we get that number just tell you a little bit about the $25 million that we took in the quarter.
We're probably going to see anywhere between $6 million and $7 million of operating income lift from that in addition this year and about $13 million in 2013.
And we've got what? About $129 million $130 million of operating income from repositioning? Elena whats the number that you have? Yes it's in that range.
Our next question comes from Peter Arment from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Dave Anderson I wonder if maybe you could just comment on the aftermarket again on just commercial.
Just trying to better understand it.
When I think about your first quarter last year you had 14% growth and spares were up 28% and repair and overhaul was up 6%.
And you look at what you did this year you're beating that.
You're at 16% in spares continues to be strong in repair and overhaul.
And I think the commentary was last year that eventually we'd see a recoupling up the flight hours.
You mentioned 4% is kind of the assumption for the year.
Are we seeing a bigger kind of restock here by airlines? Are we seeing higher provisioning? What is really driving this right now? Well I think there's a couple of things Peter that are working.
I mean first of all as we've said we're benefiting from the active fleets and if you will the mix of that active fleet in terms of some of the older aircraft that are being put into usage.
We've got less parked aircraft which is supporting it.
So those 2 things are definitely at work.
I think we're also seeing for us the benefit of selectables which is supporting us.
Higher penetration in terms of capture on those selectables with airlines just doing a very very good job of executing.
Now that double-digit rate growth as you said in terms of spares growth in the overall double-digit growth that we've seen on the Commercial Aftermarket in the ATR aftermarket specifically we expect that to -- good growth but obviously to subside and more in line although still outpacing flight hours in the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No that's helpful.
I just wanted to understand.
Seems like you're continuing to see outsize growth there.
And then just as a follow-up to stick within the rules Dave Cote can you maybe just give us a little highlight how you see the M&amp;A pipeline going forward for 2012? Well first the pipeline is always good.
It's always a question of is it actionable and can we actually -- if the pricing make sense and can we make good sense of it? So I would say the pipeline is always the same and it'll be a question of how well does the pricing look and can we make it happen.
The nice thing about it is having a big full pipeline all the time means that we never have to overpay because we can be very confident that we've got other good stuff in line.
And the more we can find things like EMS Technologies you can be sure -- we're going to make sure we make them happen.
Our next question comes from Deane Dray from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> The question in ACS specifically the Security Scanning Mobility Dave Anderson's commentary regarding the geographic differences between North America up 10% but then commentary that China is weaker.
Now China weaker on the infrastructure side but North America has not had a robust non-res construction cycle either.
So what are the geographic dynamics at play there? Deane let me make sure I understand.
You're referencing specifically what business there? Research Division</strong> The Security Scanning Mobility.
Okay.
Well Elena why don't you just give a little color on some of the regional data? Sure.
So Deane Security and HSM are obviously strong globally.
But in the Americas they've been particularly strong.
We were -- we saw growth in the Security business in the double-digit -- low double-digit range in the first quarter organically largely driven by North America Intrusion which was up in the 15% to 20% range in the quarter.
And Scanning &amp; Mobility up in the mid-20s organically within the U.S.
So very strong performance.
The performance in China and in Europe in particular is a bit more muted.
But within Security and Scanning &amp; Mobility actually down slightly organically in the quarter within those regions.
Some of that though is also timing-related.
And you're going to see that Deane.
I mean those are -- in terms of size of business et cetera you're going to see the kind of movement quarter-to-quarter.
Research Division</strong> So that was the growth and the products that we saw recently at the Security Industry Trade Show in Las Vegas.
And for those businesses you're seeing -- what was the North America organic growth? North America organics in Security was roughly 10% Deane.
Our next question comes from Nigel Coe from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First of all Dave could you maybe just clarify your comments on the ACS short-cycle trends.
You mentioned an improvement towards the back end of 1Q.
Was that a comment on China? Or was that a broader comment on the short-cycle portfolio? It's really a broader comment Nigel.
It's just -- it's I think reflective of the fact that we've seen a little bit of a strengthening there broadly as we exited the first quarter and clearly doesn't as I said doesn't cause us to believe that's a trend.
But it's a positive sign.
And there's a lot going on obviously to influence the outcome both in terms of new product introductions.
We've got some tremendous introductions weighted to the second half of the year as well as just continue to grow in high-growth regions.
So there's a number of things that we think will add to hopefully that trend line.
Research Division</strong> And I don't want to be too nerdy but normally we do see this kind of acceleration from February into March.
So when you talk about a strengthening are you saying that's in line with normal seasonality? Or maybe a bit better than that? I would say it's a little better than that.
But I don't want to read too much into that.
But it is an encouraging sign and I just mentioned it in light of the question made earlier of sequential growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then just a follow-on in the free cash flow.
The accrued liabilities line was a bit more of a negative.
And I mean than we normally see in 1Q? Could you just maybe comment on that Dave? It really has to do with customer advances.
As much as anything that's deferred revenue that's now being recognized in terms of sales in the quarter.
Some of those associate with longer term.
Most of that associated with longer-term contracts.
Our next question comes from Howard Rubel from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First Dave to use your cabbage analogy a little bit.
Occasionally there's rabbits that come after you when you have a lot of cabbage.
What are you sort of doing to make sure they don't ruin what you see come -- where do you -- where are you sort of taking some extra efforts? Obviously restructuring was one but are there some other things you're sort of asking your managers to do to be vigilant? First its investor rabbits that we're trying to attract Howard.
So I think this should give them a lot to focus on.
And we're constantly focusing on what's next.
It's one of the things that we do.
That whole evolution concept that I was talking about at the Investor Conference it's just how we think about the company.
So some of the stuff we're ready to talk about and you're seeing; some is in process and you're not seeing yet and we're not talking about it.
So I can promise you that as I said in the beginning we stay hungry.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then on that same note I mean I know I tend to focus on thinking about Process Solutions as being largely energy but there are a lot of other businesses in there and we've continued to see FAA -- excuse me FDA pressure on some customers to step up and do things in that market.
Could you sort of address some of the other opportunities outside of energy in Process Solutions? Well I mean the big places for us outside energy are pulp and paper farmer and power.
And we're doing pretty well in all of those.
So I'm very bullish on what I think our Process Solutions business can do going forward.
We've got some -- just terrific product there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is there -- there's nothing -- I mean I know there's always a lot of things in the pipeline.
Is there anything you can sort of talk about in terms of new developments? No.
They're there Howard but I'm not ready to talk about them.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I got it.
Anything else you don't want me to talk about? Inc.
Research Division</strong> We've done well here.
Sorry I wish I could be more forthcoming on some of this stuff but I can only promise you we're not sitting on our hands back here.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No I recognize that.
And the numbers show that.
Our next question comes from Steven Winoker from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Two questions then.
One a little more detailed.
On the Aerospace aftermarket side are you seeing a difference in terms of the discretionary versus nondiscretionary parts growth? So is this sort of -- for example mechanical versus the electrical side.
Are you -- or is there not much difference now? Well I think on the ATR side I think again it's really driven by the things that we talked about Steve earlier which is just the aircraft utilization the mix of that aircraft the strong penetration that we have in terms of selectables.
Obviously we're getting a large mechanical benefit from that.
But I would say the avionic side has been strong too with the RMU growth that we've seen over the last 4 or 5 quarters.
I'm going to cite that for BGA particularly is where we've seen that is the RMU growth.
Elena correctly points out on the BGA side.
We had actually stronger growth in BGA as a percent during the quarter.
So that's done very well.
The other thing is there's -- on the BGA side there was deferral of maintenance that occurred.
And what we're seeing now is a real demand into the system and pretty good visibility in terms of that demand.
So we're quite encouraged by it.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And that's across your different product platforms then? It is.
It is.
And the other thing obviously is as you talk to operators and others it's just the quality of the upgrades particularly the cockpit upgrades that are offered by Honeywell and the significant appeal of those upgrades.
So I hear that anecdotally all the time.
I think there's just a lot of goodness there and again that's showing up in the numbers.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then at a higher level if we step back and talk about -- see the weakness in Europe again and then just the question on emerging markets and whether they're decel-ing or increasing a little bit the U.S.
still insulated from that.
But in your business are you -- is there any thought that the U.S.
should Europe not recover that at some point this starts to impact your businesses in the U.S.
or you feel like you know what we can continue at this kind of clip from share gain et cetera in the U.S.
regardless of what happens well within reason overseas? Are we insulated in North America? I would say both things you said are true.
The first one is there's -- it's a globally -- or I said there's 2 spaces there.
Well the first we are a globally interconnected economy.
So there's -- if Europe continues to drag even beyond next year because they just don't get the political will to do what they need to then it definitely will have an impact in the U.S.
We would argue that regardless of what the economic outlook is we will outperform in that -- whatever the environment is because of the work that we've done to have the right products right services.
Everybody's staying hungry.
A lot of the programs that we've launched over the last 10 years are really starting to come to fruition.
We've got a lot of good stuff still coming.
The pipeline is full for us on everything: new products the geographies that we see the services that we've been able to come up with.
I still feel very good about our ability to outperform regardless of the environment.
The other thing just Steve if I could just add is it's obviously against the backdrop of a continued weak housing market and overall construction markets which are obviously huge drivers both in terms of the economy as well as we will be beneficiaries of them.
So I think Steve as we see improvements there I think we're going to see actually net upside.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And Dave following that up are you seeing any commercial -- improvement in commercial pricing on -- for example HPS or...
Well I think in general we do a pretty good job in pricing as we've said before Steve in all our businesses.
We really just try to do it on the basis of new products and the value that we're able to provide.
So I would say we're still going to continue to do well there.
Our next question comes from John Inch from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> It's Elana on John's behalf.
My first question is about the progression of EPS this year.
So historically the first quarter represents only about 20% to 21% of full year EPS.
So if we extrapolate out to the full year this gets us to over $5 of earnings.
So in other words why would this year be more front-end loaded than previous years? From your lips Elana.
Research Division</strong> Conservatism or...
Let me take a shot at that Elana and it's a very very good question obviously something that we've spent a lot of time analyzing and studying here internally.
The things that I think that we pointed out in the call.
Number one is obviously the strength that we've experienced in the Commercial Aerospace aftermarket.
Again we're lapping 8 consecutive quarters of double-digit spares increases now.
And so while we're still expecting the commercial aftermarket to grow ahead of utilization rates as we've said we're not going to see the 15% to 20% growth in the quarters that we saw in the last 4 quarters.
We're going to see a weaker Defense and Space.
That's just timing.
Defense and Space down 2% to 3% in the first half down 6% to 8% in the second half.
I mean that's just built in to get to the 5% which we continue to believe is the right kind of guidance for you for the full year.
And we've talked a lot this morning about UOP and we talked about catalyst volumes but also some licensing volumes.
Those are going to be more normalized in the second half.
In addition you'll recall the Petrobras contract award the FEED award that front-end engineering design award that's almost $100 million of less revenues second half UOP compared to first half.
So there's a bunch of things.
So as we roll off these first half positives we will see some partial offsets by modest improvement.
We think of short-cycle sales we talked about that.
But it's going to be more like -- if you look first half second half it's going to be more like a 48 52 kind of year we think in 2012 in terms of the distribution of those earnings.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then I just wanted to circle back to your comments about Aerospace R&amp;D investments this year being flat.
When you talk about R&amp;D are you including launch cost in that bucket? Or would you characterize launch cost as having a different trajectory year-over-year? Launch is excluded from what I just mentioned.
And you'll recall launch is down significantly year-over-year because of the proactive work that we did in 2011.
You recall 2011 second quarter in terms of the launch contribution the larger launch contribution recognition.
So the R&amp;D -- and importantly what I'm talking about is dollar-wise more spend driven by success in the marketplace.
When you look at that as a percent of revenue given the growth that we're experiencing in Aerospace we're talking about in line for the full year.
Roughly in line for Aerospace.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you give us a magnitude on the decline in launch cost year-over-year? Launch is down about $80 million to $90 million year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then I just wanted to ask you about pricing in the quarter how much it contributed to top line growth? And also what was the overall per total company price cost impact on margins? Well Elena I'm going to let you feel the question on the price Elena.
I don't have that.
Elana I don't have that data right in front of me.
On pricing net across the company Elana it was about 1.5% of the top line from a price cost headwind.
We can spend some more time offline going through the business but it was obviously net positive for the company in terms of margins.
Our next question comes from Laton Cana [ph].
You mentioned new wins I think in the context of Aerospace.
And you mentioned the PPD the launch contributions will be still down $80 million $90 million.
First can you remind us of the Q2 dynamic again? Is that down like $70 million in launch? And what do you think it might be for 2013 given some of the pipeline wins you've had? It's in -- it's about $80 million to $90 million of headwind in 2012.
And obviously we haven't disclosed or -- and it got enough for roll off obviously in the Inmarsat deal and it's nearly -- there's obviously some new puts and takes to it.
So I think that's -- we'll be forthcoming in terms of the outlook for 2013.
[indiscernible] tailwinds for second quarter.
Less.
Open second quarter yes.
But it's a pretty huge one for the second quarter if I recall.
Yes it's about $80 million.
Yes it's about $80 million.
From a bottom line standpoint we offset that with a gain.
So there was distribution difference in terms of the landscape.
The launch was above the line segment profit and the gain we had was below the line.
But from a PDT or EPS standpoint it was offset.
Okay understood.
And biz jet you mentioned kind of OE strength in the quarter.
We're hearing more noise about Hawker Beechcraft kind of potentially filing for bankruptcy.
I mean could you quantify -- I know it's not the biggest thing in the world but what it might mean with respect to sales earnings and I guess receivables risk? Well clearly there's been a lot of -- a lot in the news.
It's really difficult to say really difficult to predict what the outcome is going to be there.
From a standpoint of receivables for us at this stage in terms of our net exposure it's relatively small relatively insignificant.
And we've contemplated -- any risk that that may pose to us we've contemplated that in our forward guidance.
All right.
Stephanie I'd now like to turn the call over to Dave Cote for his final remarks.
Well as you might imagine we're really pleased with our start to the year.
All the seed planting we've done over the years with that consistent strategy for growth productivity and our enablers just continued to play out and yet they have lots of runway.
Our diversity of opportunity in businesses products and geographies really is a terrific advantage.
Because of all that we expect and continue to outperform in the future.
And even with all of that going for us we are not resting.
As I said earlier you can expect us to stay hungry smart disciplined and flexible.
And it's our intent to be your best investment.
Thanks.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
That does conclude today's conference.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Honeywell Second Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Elena Doom Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Stephanie and good morning and welcome to Honeywell's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Here with me today are Chairman and CEO Dave Cote; and Senior Vice President and CFO Dave Anderson.
This call and webcast including any non-GAAP reconciliations are available on our website at www.honeywell.com/investor.
We want you to note that elements of today's presentation do contain forward-looking statements that are based on our best view of the world and of our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change and we would ask that you interpret them in that light.
We identify the principal risks and uncertainties that affect our performance in our Form 10-K and other SEC filings.
So this morning we're going to review our financial results for the second quarter of 2012 as well as share with you our guidance for the remainder of the year.
And of course we'll allow time for your questions at the end.
So with that I'd like to turn the call over to Dave Cote.
Thanks Elena.
Good morning everyone.
It's great to be able to say again that Honeywell had another terrific quarter capping off a strong first half.
We had a nice earnings increase on modest sales growth and it was driven by solid margin expansion.
Margins expanded about 150 basis points or 80 basis points when you exclude the absence of prior year payments to BGA customers and that gave us a tailwind this year.
That increase in margins though reflects our continued focus on driving productivity from our key process initiatives that conservative planning assumptions and the proactive restructuring all while continuing to invest for the future.
Sales were $9.4 billion representing 4% reported annual organic growth on top of good growth last year.
This performance in a more challenging macro environment underscores the value of the diversity of opportunity across our businesses: Short- and long-cycle exposure our products and services and mix of U.S.
and rest of world geographies.
As expected our short-cycle businesses posted slower growth this quarter with declines in Europe and slower growth in China.
However our long-cycle businesses namely Commercial Aerospace and UOP continued with strong performance.
Earnings per share of $1.14 was up 12% year-over-year 14% on a continuing ops basis that was above the high end of our guidance range.
Cash was also strong having generated over $1 billion of free cash flow prior to pension contributions and that reflects 115% net income conversion.
And as I mentioned earlier we did this while also investing for the future.
We continue to ramp R&amp;D and CapEx investments which will continue to drive future growth.
We also funded approximately $25 million in net restructuring in the quarter or approximately $50 million on a gross basis.
That brings gross year-to-date restructuring funded through operations to almost $80 million adding to the existing opportunity of already committed projects that Dave will take you through further later.
As we all know the macroeconomic landscape is uncertain and thats at best.
However we continue to expect more of the same.
We're going to build on our execution track record and in Europe we expect continued softness in our short-cycle businesses specifically ACS and Transportation Systems.
However with our balanced portfolio of short and long-cycle businesses that helping to mitigate these near-term trends as Europe is roughly flat on an organic basis year-to-date.
Meanwhile the Americas is holding up well and the indicators we're tracking are still positive.
The same is true in China with a modest uptick in our short-cycle businesses helping to drive double-digit growth again in the quarter.
Overall we feel good about the diversified nature and regional mix of the portfolio benefiting from our Great Positions in Good Industries globally.
With all that in mind we've outlined our second half planning framework capturing the key variables that comprise the low mid and high ends of our new guidance range.
Dave will walk you through more of the details shortly but at a high level we're raising the low end of guidance by $0.05.
While keeping the high end unchanged making our new EPS guidance range $4.40 to $4.55.
This is of course supported by the strong performance we saw in the first half and a balanced view of the risks and opportunities in the second half.
Turning to 2013 who knows what happens on a macroeconomic basis.
However everything out there suggests that continued conservative planning is best.
We're positioning ourselves for another tough economic landscape while staying focused on the things that are within our control.
That means continuing to execute on our key strategies for growth sustaining our investments in new products and technologies controlling our fixed costs through OEF or organization effectiveness and making sure we deliver the savings from the roughly $400 million in restructuring projects that are still in process that we funded over the last couple of years.
These projects are estimated to deliver over $125 million of incremental savings next year and of course we'll continue to be cautious about adding people back globally.
And as we highlighted in our March Investor Conference we've made margin growth a bigger element of how we incentivize our people so everyone's focused on it and we're delivering on it.
Honeywell demonstrated in the last downturn that we're a company that executes well even in a tough macro environment and we're doing it again this time.
Segment margins are expanding more than we initially expected at the beginning of the year despite slower sales growth.
For 2012 and '13 we have focused on margin expansion as key to earnings growth as a way to leverage slower sales growth in a tough macro environment.
So with sharp execution benefits from seat planning and productivity initiatives the tailwinds from proactive restructuring funding and acquisition accretion will work to offset low global growth.
And that will contribute to the company's outperformance again in 2013.
With that I'll turn it over to Dave.
Thanks David and good morning everyone.
And thanks again for your participation in this morning's call.
I'm going to take you through the summary financial results starting on Slide #4.
As you can see the businesses have done a really nice job of managing things within their control and the results that Dave highlighted and are shown on this slide really reflect that.
The revenues of $9.4 billion were up 4% at the lower end of the guidance range driven in large part by unfavorable foreign exchange in the quarter.
Regionally we saw good organic growth in the Americas of 5% on an organic basis.
Europe was roughly flat.
China was up 12%.
And as everyone knows and has been experiencing the Europe macro headwinds have been challenging.
But Honeywell's balanced mix of long-cycle exposure is clearly contributing to the stability that we're having in Europe again in the second quarter.
The segment profits for the company was up an impressive 15%.
Segment margins expanded 150 basis points to 15.8% with expansion in 3 out of our 4 business segments.
It represents approximately 55% revenue conversion for the quarter on our reported basis.
And if we adjusted for last year's Aero launch contribution and the favorability this year compared to that same event last year we actually had 43% revenue conversion in the quarter.
Tremendous productivity disciplined cost controls in a slower growth environment.
Now below the line in taxes we're largely as expected we funded approximately $25 million as Dave said in net restructuring projects in the quarter which is going to benefit us in 2013.
And in a few minutes I'll walk you through an analysis of our proactive restructuring actions that we've taken since 2009.
Our earnings per share of $1.14 were above the high end of our guidance representing a 14% increase on a continuing operations basis.
And finally free cash flow of just over $1 billion reflecting 115% free cash flow conversion a solid result for the quarter.
Working capital contributed to year-over-year cash growth which partially offset higher capital spending.
So let's now go to Slide 5 start with the businesses with Aerospace.
Sales in Aero were up 8% 4% organic excluding the impact of last year's BGA launch payments.
And as expected we continue to see good growth in the Commercial businesses partially offset by manageable declines in defense.
The Commercial OE sales were up 38% in the quarter 16% organic if you exclude the EMS acquisition as well as the OE payments.
The increases were particularly strong in BGA at 25% organic driven by continued healthy demand in the mid to the large cabin aircraft segment where as you know Honeywell has an outsized share of content.
And on the ATR side we saw the benefits of growth in both Boeing and Airbus deliveries resulting from the ongoing ramp in production rates.
Commercial aftermarket sales in total were up 9% driven by strong spares growth as well as growth in the Repair &amp; Overhaul business.
And in the quarter we saw our highest quarterly number of BGA spares volumes with a record number of scheduled engine events.
Couple other subpoints relative to the commercial aftermarket.
As expected the ATR aftermarket is beginning to recouple the flight hours sales growth roughly half the pace of the first quarter and the second quarter although we still saw more than 2x flight hour growth in our revenue growth in the second quarter.
So with slower flight hour growth year-over-year and spares and R&amp;O volumes now above the prior peak there's clear evidence that the restocking momentum that we experienced over the last year has begun to subside.
And in the second half consistent with what we've told you earlier we expect the ATR aftermarket sales to recouple the flight hour growth and that flight hour growth we expect to be in the range of up 2.5% to 3.5% in the second half.
On the BGA side on the Business and General Aviation side the aftermarket growth is also expected to moderate from high teens to high single digits to low double digit in the second half following 10 consecutive quarters of double-digit increases in spares activities and 7 consecutive quarters of double-digit growth for BGA R&amp;O.
On the Defense and Space side sales were down 4% in the quarter.
TIGER international sales and the addition of EMS volumes partially offset TIGER program completion and lower T55 engine sales.
And again this is playing out exactly as we communicated to you and as we guided to you.
We're now anticipating D&amp;S sales to be down approximately 4% for the year better than previously expected as the business continues to execute very well on incremental pursuits both in the U.S.
and particularly internationally.
Aerospace margins expanded 260 basis points to 18.6% in the second quarter even when you exclude the impact of the absence of last year's launch payments margins expanded 50 basis points approximately driven by commercial volume growth price and productivity net of inflation while continuing to ramp investment in R&amp;D to support future growth.
So with the highlights of Aero let's now turn to ACS Slide #6.
Sales for ACS were $4 billion in the quarter up 2% on a reported basis 4% organic driven by volume growth and favorable impact of acquisitions primarily EMS partially offset by foreign exchange headwinds.
Now the top line performance was largely as expected with good growth in the long-cycle businesses of ACS offsetting the slower growth in the short-cycle businesses of Energy Safety and Security if you will ESS.
Now as a reminder ACS represents about 50% of Honeywell's total European exposure and while we've seen some variability month-to-month in the short-cycle we continue to convert the long-cycle backlog of both Process and Building Solutions which is resulting in roughly flat organic sales for the segment in the quarter in Europe.
Now a little bit of highlights for each of the businesses.
ESS up 1% organic reflecting continued solid growth in Security and Scanning and Mobility largely offset by lower sales in ECC S&amp;C and also our Safety Products driven by weaker overall end markets in Europe.
Now we expect more of the same for ESS in the second half but with the benefit of better comps given the profile of the second half of 2011.
HPS sales were up 8% organically.
Solid growth across most regions particularly the Americas and Middle East.
New business activity in HPS was also strong.
We saw orders and backlog both up 10% organically in the quarter.
For BSD that is the Building Solutions &amp; Distribution business sales were up 6% organically.
That was driven by strong backlog conversion globally.
And also America's fire and security distribution sales which were partially offset by slower growth in energy and commercial retrofit projects here in the U.S.
Now turning to margins.
ACS expanded margins 50 basis points in the quarter to 13.3% 35% sales conversion driven by productivity improvements namely benefits from prior period repositioning actions disciplined cost control acquisition integration benefits particularly those acquisition integration benefits driven by EMS.
So very good conversion very good margin expansion for ACS in the quarter in the face of some challenging macros particularly European short-cycle macros.
Now Slide 7 Performance Materials &amp; Technologies.
Revenues of $1.5 billion up 10% recorded 4% organic led by UOP and Resins &amp; Chemicals.
Record segment profit and margins for PMT 22.6% operating margin in the quarter.
UOP continues to execute against record backlog with favorable industry conditions globally.
And as expected UOP saw more measured growth in the quarter with sales up 10% year-over-year supported by higher licensing activity partially offset by lower refining catalysts sales.
Further we continue to see robust orders at UOP.
They were up strong double digits in the quarter providing further foundation for future growth.
However we anticipate and this is very important and consistent with our prior guidance that year-over-year sales in the second half for UOP are going to further temper as we lap more difficult comps due to the large catalyst shipments that we had last year that don't repeat this year and of course the completion of the Petrobras FEED portion of the contract.
And again as a reminder UOP revenues in the second half of 2011 up 36% in the third quarter up 36% in the fourth quarter.
So very very tough comps.
Now Advanced Materials for PMT performed very well despite strong competitive pressures globally and the regional economic headwinds particularly Europe and Asia offset by strong growth in the U.S.
Sales for Advanced Materials were up 10% reported roughly flat organically in the quarter.
Plant execution was strong across the board.
R&amp;C benefited from higher ammonium sulfate sales.
And also Caprolactam volumes were strong despite softer market conditions in China.
Now weaker end demand in Europe and Asia contributed to lower sales in Fluorines which was partially offset by more favorable sales in the Americas.
And overall for the second half we expect Advanced Materials' year-over-year sales to improve again largely here driven by comps in this case easier comps in the second half 2011 setting up for a little bit of growth in 2012.
So overall a really great quarter for PMT.
Record profit margins despite the headwinds from the phenol plant acquisition and also from R&amp;C pricing.
Plant reliability has been very good.
PMD has been -- PMT has been actively working on executing high-value growth opportunities as we look to expand capacity and capability across a number of product lines.
With that let's go to Transportation Systems Slide #8.
Now Transportation sales were $900 million in the quarter down 9% reported 1% organic with growth significantly impacted by a lower European -- euro rather exchange rate.
It represents solid performance for Transportation in the face of challenging European macro headwinds including EU light vehicle production was -- which was down in the range of 10% in the quarter.
And also continued weak automotive sales in aftermarket conditions in that market.
Turbo sales were down slightly on an organic basis versus last year.
New launches including higher Turbo gas penetration in North America allowed us to perform well in what has become a difficult environment for this business.
Regionally Europe was down 7% organic.
China was also down again as a result of lower commercial vehicle sales although we think we've seen the end of the CVD stocking in China.
We saw a sequential growth in the second quarter over the first.
We also saw good performance in the U.S.
up 16% organic as well as strength in Japan and India.
Segment margins for TS were 12.7% down only 30 basis points as material and HOS productivity levers more than offset in -- by inflation and the impact of ongoing projects to drive operational improvement in the Friction business.
So now let's turn to Slide 9 where we want to give you a minute to just -- to give you an update on our restructuring progress which was one of the big focus areas as you know over the last few years particularly last year as we deployed the CPG gain.
On Slide #9 this is a chart that highlights the over $800 million of restructuring that we've done and funded on a proactive basis since 2009 and provides important insights on the geography and the status of the projects as we plan for the second half of this year and look forward to 2013.
Now starting with the regional view on the far left side you can see Europe has been the recipient of a significant portion of the restructuring dollars over this time period representing roughly 55% of the funding pool.
This has and will continue to better position Honeywell for the current economic situation.
It really does put us in a position to significantly improve the cost structure going forward.
And as Dave mentioned earlier we funded an additional roughly $80 million gross in new restructuring projects in the first half of this year.
These actions were funded through operations.
However the majority of the actions taken since 2009 as you recall have been funded via one-time gains.
It's also important to point out that a large number of these projects and that's really the second bar on the graph are still ongoing many of which are in Europe and somewhat longer paybacks as a result.
So we expect approximately $150 million in incremental restructuring benefits in 2012 no change there.
And on a preliminary basis we see approximately $125 million of incremental savings in 2013 from projects that have already been funded.
So a good demonstration of the proactive cost management and fee planning for the future that will help us drive margin expansion and earnings growth over the coming years.
With that background on the restructuring let's turn to Slide 10 and preview our expectations for the upcoming third quarter.
In Aerospace we expect continued good growth in the Commercial OE and aftermarket partially offset by modest declines in Defense and Space.
And we expect the ATR aftermarket to track slightly ahead of utilization rates as we lap more difficult comps in 2011.
In ACS for the third quarter we expect a modest uptick in ESS driven by a better year-over-year comps coupled with continued good growth in Process Solutions and BSD as they continue to convert on strong backlogs.
We expect a sequentially weaker third quarter in PMT driven by the normal flooring seasonality lower R&amp;C pricing and as we mentioned earlier UOP timing.
Finally TS is expected to have another tough quarter driven by euro exchange headwinds and lower EU light vehicle production declines partially offset by continued good growth in the Americas as well as the benefit of new launches.
So in total we're planning for sales in the third quarter for Honeywell to be in the range of $9.4 billion to $9.6 billion up 1% to 3% reported up 4% to 6% excluding foreign exchange so similar to what we saw in terms of our actual results in the second quarter.
Turning to Slide 11.
What we've shown here is a comparison now of the third quarter 2011 to the third quarter 2012 and we've done this given the complexity of last year's gain and gain deployment geography.
So just a little bit of background again on this slide.
We want to remind you of these geography challenges today in advance.
So as you prepare your analysis of the third quarter and as the reported V% or income from continuing ops and net income are actually reported in October it's going to give you a better basis to understand those results.
So let's go through the highlights of this slide.
First of all you recall that in the third quarter of 2011 we had $177 million gain on an after tax basis related to the gain on the sale of CPG reported and that was reported in discontinued operations.
You can see it down in the chart in the both the first and second columns in terms of the income from discontinued ops in the first column.
And you'll see that deployment of that in the second column.
I'll explain that in just a moment.
We also had a sizable both have gains in the third quarter of last year which was reported in continuing ops.
So both importantly we're fully deployed in continuing ops as you can see in the center column.
So the repositioning and other actions which also included a small amount of redeployment in the -- into segment profit which was related to employee health savings account funding.
That was about $30 million.
This resulted -- the total of all these actions the gains and the redeployment resulted in no impact to EPS in 2011 other than the tax favorability that was generated in the tax rate which is about $30 million or a $0.04 benefit which was offset then in the fourth quarter of 2011.
So moving to the right looking at the operating performance in the third column you can see that the net income of $832 million and EPS of $1.06 on an adjusted operating basis provide the basis for comparison purposes when you look at our reported numbers our guided numbers and then eventually our reported numbers for 2012.
So now our third quarter 2012 EPS range guidance is $1.10 to $1.15 so that reflects 4% to 8% growth in the operating earnings on sales growth of guidance of 1% to 3% reported.
And again the geography challenges presenting today in advance so you can prepare your analysis.
Were clearly available to talk to you about this and to provide more color more visibility more transparency on this if you need it as you prepare your views of the third quarter for Honeywell.
Slide #12.
Let's now go to the 2012 financial guidance summary.
With the first half of the year behind us we've revised our full year guidance for 2012 on Slide 12 reflecting the strength of our first half results and also what remains for the year.
Here's the highlights.
While we expect to have continued foreign exchange headwinds in the second half we'll have some disparity to a normal EPS linearity due to the tax rate differences that we've had quarter-over-quarter this year versus last year we're raising our earnings per share outlook for the year.
Let's review some of the highlights.
We now expect sales to be in the range of $37.8 billion to $38.4 billion up 3% to 5% on a reported basis 4% to 6% organic.
This reflects an adjustment of approximately $200 million attributed to euro foreign exchange headwinds as we've now incorporated lower euro assumption of EUR 1.25 in our outlook at the midpoint.
Now despite the adjustment to sales for the full year we anticipate segment margins in the range of 15.4% to 15.6% above our previous estimate driven by continued strong sales conversion and disciplined cost controls.
And as Dave referenced earlier we're expecting EPS in the range of $4.40 to $4.55 which reflects an increase of $0.05 on the low end of our previous guidance.
So on a continuing ops basis adjusted for CPG we see earnings up in 2012 full year 10% to 14%.
No change to free cash flow planning.
We're planning conversion now for -- still for 100% of net income excluding any pension contributions or NARCO-related payments.
We think our guidance demonstrates our confidence and the ability of Honeywell to execute in this environment as well as it represents we believe top-tier performance among our peer group.
Not much new relative to our second half assumptions but for D&amp;S which is tracking ahead of previous expectations we now expect that down 4% to 5% in the second half versus down 5% to 7% previously.
Let's take a couple of minutes now on Slide 13 to walk through some of the key sensitivities impacting the second half outlook and therefore the full year guidance.
So what we've set out on Slide 13 is the highlight of some of the second half factors that would cause us to come in above or below the midpoint of our guidance range.
We think the midpoint reflects the reality of the environment we're in today in effect the base case assumptions that we're using.
And noting that at the end of the first half we're clearly at different stages with some things running ahead of expectations like UOP and other things running slightly behind like Transportation Systems with harder tougher-than-expected European macros.
So there's no telling exactly how it's going to play out as Dave said how we're taking collectively we think we've given you a relevant framing of the key drivers including the items on the high end where we -- where certainly any one of them is very possible despite the macro environment.
So starting with the commercial aftermarket for Aerospace what we've said is we expect that growth to moderate in the second half as we recouple the flight hours.
We've seen some slowing growth in ATR flight hours year-to-date.
We're not expecting a further slowing so the outlook here depends on how fast that recoupling occurs.
Further we've seen strong BGA aftermarket performance driven by record engine maintenance events year-to-date and RMU sales over the past several quarters.
Again we're expecting growth there to slow in BGA aftermarket based on more difficult comps although the timing and the rate of that is still unclear.
UOP as you know is a big needle mover.
Performance has been stronger than expected year-to-date.
However we know events can be lumpy with the timing of a few shipments being a significant swing factor.
The other area we're watching closely in PMT is Caprolactam pricing as we've seen pricing come in since the peak last year driven by softening global demand.
This is something that moves -- can move around a bit so we've included here as a key driver.
And finally as you can see a pretty wide range for the euro which we think is prudent centering on the midpoint of EUR 1.25.
But again sort of who knows on that but we think that's a relevant range for planning purposes.
So with all the headlines out there it's easy to look on the downside but at the same time we want to be realistic about the strength of execution that we've had and also some of the highlights and strong points that we're seeing in our businesses.
So with all the puts and takes considered we think this represents a balanced view of the remainder of the year and as Dave mentioned earlier we'll continue to leverage the cost side but remaining disciplined as well as overall flexible.
So finally let me just make a couple of summary points before turning it back over to Elena for Q&amp;A.
Obviously a strong start to the year for Honeywell.
Second quarter performance again ahead of expectations adding to our performance track record.
However it's not to say this wasn't challenging with a number of our short-cycle businesses continuing to be -- to face headwinds particularly in Europe.
And we expect this environment to continue for the remainder of the year and into 2013.
The good news though is that the Honeywell playbook is clearly working.
All of the businesses demonstrated strong operating leverage outperforming their industries because they were well positioned having to continue to invest in growth and productivity in both the previous downturn and the subsequent recovery.
And clearly those investments are paying out.
We're going to make sure we stay flexible.
We're working with our business leaders to ensure we have a plan for both the downside and the upside scenarios.
The restructuring actions that I've highlighted are going to continue to be a big theme addressing the cost side of the equation and as we showed you with the healthy number of projects that we're still executing on that will deliver benefits in the second half of 2012 and big benefits in 2013.
And again as Dave said we're in the process of setting the stage for 2013.
Importantly we've got a forecast backlog for the year end this year of over $15 billion slightly higher than where we ended 2011 and a book-to-bill ratio of 1.1 which clearly implies another healthy growth year in our long-cycle businesses in 2013.
And meanwhile we continue to plan for a tough macro environment enduring in 2013 with global growth around 2%.
However we're confident with our strong global franchises our balanced portfolio our focused cost discipline we're going to continue to outperform again.
So with that let me turn it over to Elena for Q&amp;A.
Thanks Dave.
Stephanie if you can open the line we'll take our first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Shannon O'Callaghan from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> On the short-cycle Europe component of it I mean can you give a little color on how you saw that progress through the quarter month-by-month and maybe into July? I mean have you seen things get worse in the last month or 2? I would say it's been pretty consistent Shannon in terms of the rate of change there.
In Turbo we saw what I call Dave was a fairly just steady erosion of the order rates but in line really with what we expected.
So Shannon I would say really it's kind of played out as we expected as we talked to you at the end of the first quarter.
We've -- we never expected much as you know Shannon.
And fortunately we planned for it.
Unfortunately it worked just the way we expected.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the -- one of your low end components of the guidance framework I mean you talked about project delays as a risk at UOP.
Either there or I guess elsewhere have you seen any evidence as people kind of putting things on hold given the current macro and how was that factored in? No not yet.
But we certainly don't want to preclude the possibility that it could happen so we just wanted to factor that into our thinking.
But we haven't seen it yet.
We're seeing -- Shannon just to add to Dave's point we've seen continued strong activity.
I have referenced the strong orders and backlog for UOP.
So knock on wood those projects will be financed and we'll execute against those.
But the overall macros continue to be very favorable in that business.
The new stuff that they've been developing helps also.
I mean you've heard Andreas talk about some of the wins that we've been able to have.
I mean the new technologies are making a big difference here.
Maybe just the build on that the book-to-bill ratio at the end of the second quarter was 1.6 so record backlog at UOP of $2.1 million.
And you're hosting...
UOP Investor Day.
UOP.
Was that August 1 and 2? Yes.
Good.
Research Division</strong> And are you seeing sort of similar positive trends in the Process business? Process backlog is also doing well.
Up 10% from a year-over-year basis organically.
Research Division</strong> And the orders too look good? Yes.
Orders up 10% as well.
Our next question comes from Jeff Sprague from Research Partners.
Dave you mentioned that margins are trending better-than-expected.
And obviously a lot of what you've been doing to improve margins has been ongoing for a while the restructuring now the comp change.
Is there anything in particular though that's jumping out to you that's actually driving the better performance? Is it better drop through on restructuring? Is it mix? Is there -- is it just everybody's pulling the orders the same way better than they used to? Is there anything that kind of stands out? I'd point to 2 things.
One is we're doing the stuff that we always did and a lot of that seed planting finally does come to roost at some point whether it's the restructuring work that you've done the new higher margin products that we've invested in.
I mean that all works.
But the second thing is I would say having the -- putting in the growth plan the way we did and making margin rate one of the components of it that certainly helped to get everybody's attention and focus even more on a lot of that again making sure that we got the results of all that seed planting that we did.
And of course the important thing to do is make sure that we're still investing for the future doing that seed planting that's going to make sure that we make not just this year but next year the year after et cetera.
So I think all of that together helped to really just kind of take it up a notch.
If I could add for PMT I think we did see some favorable mix in UOP driven by some record-level licensing and stronger petrochemical catalyst sales in the quarter which contributed nicely to the margin upside.
But I would say in terms of the fundamental changes Jeff I think the things I was referencing are the overall drivers and why you can continue to expect it.
Right that's encouraging.
Can you elaborate a little bit on the comment on China? Everybody's really kind of reading the tea leaves here for any sign of stabilization in our inflection one way or the other.
How convincing was it and -- or important was it in your view and what kind of follow-through are you seeing? Well for us China for us as you know has been a focal point for 10 years.
And we -- I think we started off from a weaker position as you know but we've been accelerating rapidly.
And we've got about 12 000 people there now with the opportunity for it to just continue growing.
Starting with the macroeconomic side yes they are going through some difficulties now.
But at the end of the day GDP is still growing pretty well and we're able to given our low shares I think continue to just grow very well.
And you saw it in the first quarter second quarter we expect that'll continue.
I'm one of the guys who believes that China is going to continue to make the right decisions.
They'll have their ups and downs of course.
They're kind of going through their down now.
But overall we expect that China's going to continue to do well and that we'll do well within that macroeconomic framework that they're developing.
And I think you've got to bet on them.
Historically they've made the right decisions.
And I think you'd continue to see them doing that now whether it's how they talk about the SOEs what they talk about in banking what they try to do to manage the real estate inflation that they've seen.
I think you should bet on them not against them.
Just to add a little bit given the importance of it.
Just -- Jeff just a couple of numbers which I think help.
We had mentioned David mentioned the growth that we experienced in the second quarter 12% organic.
It's 14% for the first half.
And what we've seen and the theme its really been or the underlying factors there have really been continued strength in our long-cycle businesses.
So that's again really reflective of those favorable macros and the business positioning that we've done and the investments that we've done in terms of globalization that we've made.
The second thing is that we saw sequential improvement one quarter to second quarter in our short-cycle businesses in nearly every one of our businesses.
And we also saw some notable pickup it's not a trend but we saw notable pickup in June.
And we've seen and in discussions with our business leaders they're seeing clear evidence of anywhere -- you could call either stabilization or improvement in terms of what they're seeing in terms of their markets.
So we think that we've got it prudently planned for the second half.
But to Dave's point if really viewed more over time and from a macro standpoint this is going to be -- continue to be a huge opportunity for Honeywell and becoming the Chinese competitor executing like we are with our technologies to deal with the macro trends there are favorable macro trends that'll continue to play out there.
I think that's the way you want to look at it.
Our next question comes from Scott Davis from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about cash reinvestment here? I think there's been any comments made about M&amp;A pipeline or buybacks what you're doing here? Well the story really hasn't changed for us Scott.
Same sort of thing we're going to make sure that we pay a very competitive dividend recognizing the significance of that to our investors and we're a good cash generator.
On the M&amp;A side same thing.
What we always keep a very full pipeline of opportunity more than we have money for.
So we can be very selective about what it is we want to get because as you know price makes the difference.
The -- you don't have a strategy regardless of price that price makes the difference.
So we're going to continue to stay very disciplined in anything we do there.
And when it comes to buybacks same thing.
We'll continue to be opportunistic with what we think makes sense.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Let's move on to PMT and you've had a few great years there and obviously Andreas has done a great job.
But at what point do you kind of struggle to continue to grow without making some of these bigger investments like a new Caprolactam plant or Fluorines or putting the multi-hundred million dollar investments in? Well actually we're going to be running into some of that over the next 2 or 3 years.
And I view this more as opportunity than a problem because the -- what we've been able to do in that business to really build on what was a good portfolio just unrealized continues to -- just our possibilities there continue to grow that's not going to change.
However none of those investments of the sort of thing that are -- break the bank when it comes to how do we think about our cash flow our cash deployment.
I mean none of this stuff is untoward or creates any kind of cash prices for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I think I get it.
Aerospace I mean can you give us a ramp either one of the days on -- or give us an idea at least of how our D&amp;A ramps the next couple of quarters and then into 2013? Just give a sense of where that spend goes.
Our D&amp;A? Well the R&amp;D spend.
And what we've guided previously obviously is higher R&amp;D spend Scott.
This year as we mentioned when you look at the second quarter results for Aerospace it really was favorability in terms of volume favorability as well as strength in productivity really offset by -- partially offset by higher R&amp;D.
Yes.
We had about $20 million Scott in the quarter of higher R&amp;D spend.
And that's a level -- starting to level off given what we've seen in previous quarters.
Right.
Research Division</strong> And that comes down in 2013 is that correct? I think the absolute level is going to stay high.
And I think the rate of the increase is going to continue to moderate.
Because we saw the big increase as you know 2011 compared to 2010 further growth in 2012 compared to '11.
And we'll see some moderation of that growth in 2013.
But against the backdrop of a very robust pipeline of wins and successes that we've had it's an opportunity-rich environment in Aerospace.
And we just continue to face significant opportunities.
Our next question comes from Peter Arment from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Question I guess following up on Scott's question regarding in the Aerospace margins.
You mentioned that you're going to have a much more tempered aftermarket growth.
Should we expect to see -- be able to hold these levels in terms of the margin performance in the back half of the year? Just comments or a little more color on the mix there.
Well we expect Aerospace to continue improving margins just like all the businesses.
I don't expect to see a degradation.
Yes and I think the guidance just to add to that Elena the guidance that we've given for Aerospace in terms of full year margins remains absolutely.
And actually I think we have some upside relative to our full year guided range for Aerospace margin.
Very very good point.
Yes it's a very good point.
When you look at -- Peter at the guidance that we've provided in terms of stronger margin expansion for Honeywell for this year in terms of the guidance that we just went through for 2012 really a lot of that strengthening is attributable net of some other adjustments is attributable to Aerospace.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just on the Defense and Space your orders coming in modestly better than expectations and you said the back half of the year looks like mid-single-digit decline versus what I think you previously expected.
What -- can you give us a little more color what you're seeing there? Was it just one particular program or...
It's really a number of things.
The way Mike Madsen I think would describe it is a series of singles and doubles.
That -- he's just really executing very very smartly against a set of opportunities frankly that really are available to us both again domestically and internationally.
There's a lot in the aftermarket.
There's a lot in key offshore markets Peter.
And that's really what we're doing.
There's nothing we would point to in terms of any major program win or...
Nothing thats a big needle-mover.
Exactly.
I mean theyre dogs and cats but...
Yes a number of items.
A lot of it -- to summarize Dave's point it's just better execution in an area that we didn't really focus on as much as we could have in the past.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just related to that is there expectation that you're going to see another long continuing resolution starting in October? And there's obviously the looming threat of sequestration.
I don't think anyone really ultimately believes that will happen but what is your -- have you done any advanced planning in preparation for that? Sure.
Cause you just can't know.
They're -- after what we saw happen with the debt ceiling you can't assume that reason is going to prevail so it's important to be able to plan accordingly.
The good thing about our situation is it's not really -- none of our businesses are solely focused on Defense generally.
It's same products same services just going into the different sales channel which gives us a lot more flexibility than others might have.
So yes we're fully prepared in the event that happens.
Our next question comes from Steve Winoker from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> First question just on the pension contribution impact from the Orissa and highway funding bill.
Can you maybe talk through a little bit of what how in any way does this change what you're planning? Well it doesn't really affect our planning it affects our obligation.
So what it does is it reduces the required Orissa-based funding over the next 3 to 5 years.
But in terms of what we're planning we're going to continue to be prudent here to be out in front of this in a low-interest-rate environment.
We think it's smart to be able to do it on that basis.
So it's certainly -- it's a favorable event but we don't see it as changing our basic plan of being prudent and being smart and basically measuring this a quarter at a time.
Were just doing what's required and what's smart here.
We've tried to always stay on the side of what's smart and we'll stay there.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And second question around the currency the FX impact I know you've -- clearly we see the translation side of this a bit on the transaction side.
Maybe talk about at what point how strong does the dollar have to get before you start to think about a real legitimate competitive impact of this? Or it's just too far away to even bother with? I don't think it -- you can't -- you got to think about it but I don't see something here if you went to $1.10 or something like it used to I don't see that having a big impact on us competitively around the world because we're everywhere as it is.
So it's not something I worry about let's put it that way.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Even at $1.10? No.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then maybe just a question to follow up on that -- on the contingency actions on the ESS range.
Contingency actions how quick can you -- if things start to materialize through the quarter and you talked about implementing these things within the second half is it really a fourth quarter set of outcomes here or you think you'd actually get third quarter runway on actions? Well I think what Dave maybe answer it this way is what Dave has asked each of the business leaders to have and this is nothing new is to have in their top right hand desk drawer this test that they would take in the event of and fill in the blank in terms of volume decline or assumption change.
That's just smart and we think executed very well and came out stronger as a result of the '08 '09 downturn.
And we've put that and enhanced -- put that into our playbook and enhanced our capability and our leadership plan as a result.
So I think the fact is we've got the response to be able to do that.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just lastly the ESS range seems relatively tight versus everything else.
And you mentioned that its comp-based at the low end.
Anything else that gives you comfort about on a relative basis sort of just sticking to that 2% to 4% range for Page 13? Yes.
No I get the point.
Yes I'd say that there's a range of possibilities there and the 4% is likely as the 2% depending upon how the second half evolves.
So it's tough to know.
I would say one of the things that we do have as you know is last year was a very warm winter.
And as result of that the comp is lower in some of our key product lines.
So if it doesn't develop that way this year that'll make a difference.
Our final question comes from Nigel Coe from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Dave you've been pretty vocal on the fiscal cliff you added your bet last week in EFT you were on CNBC out there talking about these issues.
Are you seeing anything in your short-cycle businesses in the U.S.
that's prompting you to become incrementally more bearish on the impact of the impasse? I would say it's tough to know how things are going to evolve in a political environment.
But this is -- as you know I've been very vocal about CEOs need to speak up here because just seeing how the debt ceiling discussion evolved a few months ago none of us in the business community ever expected that they could be that reckless overall.
And as we look at the fiscal cliff that's an even bigger looming issue.
And it's important for all of us to be speaking up now to make sure that politicians get it that this is not just a political advantage issue they're dealing with but they're dealing with lives of a lot of people as they kind of to and fro on this stuff.
So I think that's one of the things that's contributing to uncertainty amongst all companies when it comes to do you want to hire do you want to invest.
So I think there's a greater chance of an overall slowdown if we don't start to see some thoughtful movement and discussion about what they're actually going to do.
So I would say it's less of a specific Honeywell item than it is an overall tone that starts to evolve in the economy if everybody starts thinking they could be reckless again.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No that's clear.
And then if I just look at your second half buildup by business I think it's on Slide 10 and you've been pretty -- Slide 12 and you've been I think more cautious on -- sorry Slide 13.
You've been more cautious on European LV production than consensus.
But you're looking for second half to be flat to down 5% which I think is a bit more positive than consensus.
I'm just wondering what's driving that more optimistic view? Well consensus historically hasn't been all that accurate as you know.
It seems like if global GDP is growing 3% to 4% a year pretty consistently the forecast are pretty good.
When you run into something where it varies one way or the other they're not very good at handling the let's say the variability of something like that.
So we find that second-guessing where it's going to go is actually been more productive than relying on those consensus forecasts.
And it's why in the first half we've prepared for something that was worse than what everybody was saying and I think we were right.
And in the second half we think it's reasonable -- one of the reasonable outcomes here is that it could be flat.
But we're going to continue to plan for -- think of this as a decline.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's consistent with the original plan.
And then just finally you called out ammonium sulfates and Caprolactam as driving the strength in PMT.
Now those are your 2 most levered businesses to the U.S.
nat gas price.
And I'm wondering how much of a benefit was the low input cost in being compared against some of your global competitors in those businesses.
It's not that big a deal.
We already have as you know an extremely good cost position in that business.
It does get enhanced at some with natural gas pricing being low.
But it's going to be -- our cost position globally is the best in the world and that's not going to change.
It's really it's really -- Nigel it's really a function now of the global economy and the demand drivers there.
I mean obviously on ammonium sulfate the overall continued growth in terms of agricultural demand the team there has just done an outstanding job of developing new customers new markets.
So we'll just continue to do that.
But as long as those macro factors stay positive we're as Dave said very very well positioned.
All right.
Thank you again for your participation in today's call and I'd like to just turn it over to Dave Cote for his closing remarks.
Well as you might expect we're very happy with how we've performed in this difficult environment.
And we expect that difficult environment to continue and think that's the right way to plan.
But you can also expect that we'll continue to outperform and the root cause is the same it's always been.
A planning for a difficult environment is of course an important element but just as important is all the seed planting we've done over the years in new products and services new geographies and process initiatives.
And we're going to stick with that game plan.
We'll continue to plan conservatively and we'll continue to invest in the seed planting that positions us to perform well in good times and the tough times.
So we're pleased of what we've been able to accomplish and we look forward to a lot more in the future.
And for Honeywell the best is still yet to come.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Honeywell Third Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Elena Doom Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Stephanie.
Good morning and welcome to Honeywell's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Here with me today are Chairman and CEO Dave Cote; and Senior Vice President and CFO Dave Anderson.
This call and webcast including any non-GAAP reconciliations are available on our website at www.honeywell.com/investor.
We ask you to note that elements of this presentation do contain forward-looking statements that are based on our best view of the world and of our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change and we would ask that you interpret them in that light.
We identify the principal risks and uncertainties that affect our performance in our Form 10-K and other SEC filings.
This morning we will review our financial results for the third quarter of 2012 share with you our outlook for the remainder of the year and provide a framework for how we're thinking about 2013.
And finally we'll leave time for your questions.
With that I'll turn the call over to Dave Cote.
Thanks Elena.
Good morning everyone.
As you've seen from our press release this morning we delivered another strong quarter and it's driven by the strength of our balanced portfolio mix.
We have a relentless focus on new products and geographic expansion and of course our disciplined cost controls.
In a more challenging economic environment our margins expanded 110 basis points to 15.8% on 2% organic sales growth.
We delivered strong earnings growth and margin expansion while continuing our investments our seed planting for the future despite a deceleration of growth across a number of our end markets.
Earnings per share of $1.20 included approximately $0.06 of tax favorability versus our normalized effective tax rate of 26.5%.
Excluding the tax benefit EPS would have been $1.14 near the top end of our previously communicated guidance range.
When you compare the $1.20 to last year's $1.10 which had approximately the same tax rate that's 9% operating growth.
Or if both years were normalized at our 26.5% rate it's an 8% operating growth.
So no matter how you slice it pretty impressive performance considering the terrific growth we had last year and the slow growth environment we're in today.
That increase in margins reflects our continued focus on driving productivity from our key process initiatives the conservative planning assumptions around cost and our proactive restructuring.
The businesses have done a great job controlling their indirect and discretionary spending and we're also seeing further traction on our key process enablers such as the Honeywell Operating System Functional Transformation Velocity Product Development and Organization Effectiveness or OEF.
The upshot is that we're just starting to hit critical mass in some of our business -- biggest businesses and the benefits will continue to provide a tailwind for margin expansion even in a slow growth or no growth environment.
And as I mentioned we did this while also investing in the future including funding additional R&amp;D and CapEx.
From a geographic perspective we expect more of the same.
In Europe we expect continued softness in our short cycle businesses namely ACS Products and Transportation Systems at least through the first half of next year.
However we don't expect to see the magnitude of euro headwinds that we saw in 2012.
And our balanced portfolio of short and long cycle businesses is helping to mitigate near-term trends.
Meanwhile the Americas is holding up well overall although we saw some deceleration in growth in the short cycle businesses of ACS and PMT as we expected.
However the indicators we're tracking remain positive overall.
The same is true in China as we are seeing lower demand for some of our products in our short cycle businesses but overall growth driven by double-digit increases in our long cycle businesses namely Commercial Aero and UOP.
We remain well positioned in China with our focus on East4East and an uptick in second and third tier cities where GDP is still growing faster than the overall country's growth.
We feel good about the diversified nature and regional mix of the portfolio and we'll continue to benefit from our Great Positions in Good Industries globally.
With just over 2 months left in the year we're very confident in our ability to meet our 2012 guidance.
As a reminder we've stuck by our earnings outlook all year and actually raised it slightly at the midpoint in prior quarters to reflect our stronger first half performance.
Today we'll outline our thoughts on the fourth quarter which Dave will  walk you through in more detail shortly but at a high level we're tightening our 2012 outlook by $0.05 each on the low and high ends taking 2012 estimated earnings per share $4.45 to $4.50 meaning no change at the midpoint of the range.
And we continue to build on our Great Positions in Good Industries making some smart bets in exciting growing spaces like natural gas processing.
You saw our recent announcement to acquire a 70% stake in Thomas Russell for $525 million.
Natural gas is a trend we're willing to bet on.
UOP is already benefiting from the boom in gas production from U.S.
shale gas deposits and increasing gas consumption abroad.
Thomas Russell has great technology to recover natural gas liquids and the opportunities to expand beyond the U.S.
by way of UOP's global presence and capabilities is substantial.
This is a unique transaction given the stage purchase and illustrates our continued disciplined approach to M&amp;A.
The overall M&amp;A pipeline is robust so you may see more but nothing is a must-have and we'll remain disciplined in our approach.
Turning to 2013 the clarity on the macro side is still murky.
There's nothing out there to suggest anything but continued conservative planning is best.
And we're expecting another year of strong margin expansion in a slow growth environment.
We'll do that by executing on our key strategies for growth sustaining our investments in new products and technologies controlling our fixed costs through OEF and making sure we deliver the savings from in-process restructuring projects that we funded over the last couple of years.
These projects are now estimated to deliver over $150 million of incremental savings next year.
And there's more to come in 2014.
There are also a number of known tailwinds like Commercial Aerospace Turbo and UOP.
We have a very healthy backlog with positive order and win rates which certainly helps increase our confidence.
And our seed planting initiatives will enable growth even in a tough economic environment.
We'll remain flexible and cautious as always in any event.
Honeywell demonstrated in the last downturn we're a company that executes well even in a tough macro environment and we're doing it again this time.
Segment margins are expanding more than we initially expected at the beginning of the year despite slower sales growth.
So with sharp execution benefits from seed planting and productivity initiatives tailwinds from proactive restructuring and acquisition accretion will work to offset low global growth contributing to the company's outperformance again in 2013.
So with that I'll turn it over to Dave.
Thanks Dave and good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on the call.
Let me start out on Slide #4 entitled Third Quarter Financial Summary and just take you through some of the highlights.
Now as Dave mentioned earlier sales were up slightly year-over-year.
We had 2% organic growth Acquisitions contributed 1% growth while currency yielded a 3% headwind in the quarter.
And of course that's been a challenge this year as FX -- and by the way a point kind of jumping ahead to 2013 is something Dave too that we would add.
We don't anticipate the same headwind for foreign currency in 2013 which hopefully will help us in that environment.
Sales were lower than expected for the quarter driven in large part by lower sales in Resins &amp; Chemicals and also the ACS short cycle businesses and we're going to talk more about each of those in just a moment.
Overall we saw a deceleration in growth rate in nearly every region in the quarter.
However we're continuing to benefit from the strength of our long cycle businesses namely Commercial Aerospace the ACS Solutions businesses and also UOP.
Now segment profit was up 8% in the quarter.
Margins expanded an impressive 110 basis points to 15.8% matching our quarterly record that we set in the second quarter.
Margins expanded in 3 out of our 4 businesses reflecting strong productivity and also just another demonstration that our playbook of disciplined cost controls is working in this environment.
Now as a reminder in the third quarter of last year we took an accrual for a change in the active medical benefit design.
We took an accrual of $30 million.
And by the way this accrual was fully offset in the third quarter of 2011 by the CPG gain which was a gain that we took in discontinued operation.
Now importantly that $30 million accrual does not repeat this year.
When you look at the total corporate expense line for the quarter corporate expense was $57 million and that's really the run rate that we've had.
If you look at second quarter for example of this year $58 million so the total corporate expense really doesn't play into the quarter at all.
Below the line was large as expected aggregate.
In fact the aggregate of other below-the-line items are basically on the run rate.
We had a minor amount of repositioning.
I'm going to talk about that in a little bit when we get to the year-to-date numbers as well.
Our effective tax rate in the quarter was 22.7% roughly in line with the 23.2% from last year but below the 26.5% that we've planned for.
So if you apply our normal 26.5% tax rate to the quarter it brings you to earnings per share of $1.14 versus our guidance of $1.10 to $1.15.
Now as you know tax rates are going to vary from quarter-to-quarter due to timing of a number of items.
However we're still planning to end the year with an ETR of 26.5%.
So think about the tax favorability in the third quarter being fully offset with a higher tax rate just a little north of 30% is what we'd anticipate in the fourth quarter so no net effect for the full year.
So again earnings per share up 9% to $1.20 and the quality of earnings remaining very high with free cash flow over $1 billion representing free cash flow conversion of 100% -- 107% of net income excluding some planned pension contributions that we made.
Let's go to Slide 5 now talk a little bit about the year-to-date financial summary because I think this is also a very important perspective in terms of viewing Honeywell's performance in 2012.
You can see on Slide 5 sales up 4% on both a reported and organic basis for the 9 months with significant foreign exchange headwinds this year being offset by acquisitions.
On an organic basis Aerospace and Performance Materials and Technologies both up approximately 6% on the top line including the favorable impact of lower load launch contributions in Aerospace while ACS up approximately 3% for the 9 months and Transportation Systems roughly flat.
Segment profit for the first 9 months up 12% roughly 3x the sales growth.
Margins expanding 110 basis points to 15.6%.
And as I mentioned we did this while continuing to invest for growth.
We funded additional restructuring in the quarter which on a gross year-to-date basis brings restructuring to almost $100 million adding to the existing pipeline of committed projects.
Additionally RD&amp;E spending is up over $80 million year-over-year across the company and we funded almost $600 million of CapEx which is a $100 million increase on a year-over-year basis.
So overall earnings up 13% or up 15% if you exclude the operational results that we had from CPG last year.
So given that background let's go to Slide 6 Aerospace.
Sales for Aero in the quarter were up 4%.
We continue to see good growth in the Commercial businesses of Aero driven by strong OE demand as well as aftermarket we're going to give you some more detail to that partially offset by modest declines in defense.
And of course that's consistent with what we've been expecting what we've been guiding.
Commercial OE sales in the quarter were up 14% driven by increased deliveries for both large air transport as well as business jet.
We saw the benefits of growth Boeing and Airbus deliveries resulting from the ongoing ramp-up in their production rates and we also saw continued healthy demand in the mid to large cabin business aircraft segment where we continue to outperform.
Now the commercial aftermarket sales were up 6% outpacing overall utilization rate despite tougher year-over-year comp.
And a couple more insights on that.
In the quarter ATR aftermarket was up 3% slightly ahead of global flight hours.
We saw ATR spares roughly flat both sequentially and year-over-year.
And again consistent with our expectations given the already high spares levels that we've been experiencing the last few quarters.
Now it's important to point out that while flight hours for ATR have been slowing the majority of that deceleration is really coming from a decline in regional aircraft hours which we classify as aircraft of less than 70 seats where Honeywell has an underweight exposure overall.
Now on the business aviation we continue to see strong growth in the aftermarket both spares and maintenance events year-over-year.
Although roughly flat sequentially as a result of high engine events and also continued strong uptake of Avionics upgrades or RMUs.
Now as a reminder we expect both the ATR and BGA aftermarket growth to moderate in the fourth quarter where ATR could see a slight decline given the challenging comps in the fourth quarter of 2011.
But overall we expect growth again in 2013 in line with flight hours.
We're going to talk about that more in a few minutes.
We're going to obviously continue to keep a post [ph] in the macro indicators here.
Now continuing with Aerospace.
Defense and Space sales were down 1% 2% organically in the quarter.
We've seen program wind-downs notably the TIGER program which is as expected being partially offset by increased sales to our international customers where we've been benefiting from a number of new contract wins.
Now again just as a reminder we anticipate Defense and Space sales to be down approximately 4% for the year so a more significant decline anticipated in the fourth quarter.
Segment profit at Aero increased 9% with margins expanding 90 basis points to 19.1%.
Overall a very strong quarter for Aero.
It's hard to believe that we've had EMS for over a year but we continue to be very excited by that acquisition and the prospects there.
As we've highlighted the comps are going to be tougher in the fourth quarter for Aero but the significant number of new wins both commercial and defense the traction the business has had to maintain and improve their cost position globally will continue to give us runway for profitable growth in the business.
Turning now to Slide 7 ACS for the quarter.
Sales were roughly $4 billion up 2% on an organic basis.
The top line for ACS was somewhat below expectations with growth in the long cycle businesses partially offset by slower growth in the short cycle businesses of ESS.
Now ESS or the product pieces of ACS their sales were basically flat on a constant currency basis in the third quarter reflecting a softer September.
Let's give you a little more color on that.
From a regional perspective ACS saw slower year-over-year growth in the Americas overall with pockets of weakness in both short cycle businesses in Europe as well as in China.
The Energy Safety and Security sales again were flat on an organic basis.
Good growth in security and Scanning &amp; Mobility driven by new product introductions but offset by lower sales in Sensing and Control and Safety Products.
We also saw lower volumes in ECC due to the challenging commercial markets that ECC has experienced this year globally.
We expect the tough marketplace to continue for the next few months but we also anticipate benefiting in part from new product introductions geographic expansion as well as somewhat easier comp as we transition into 2013.
Now Process Solutions sales were up 5% organically in the third quarter.
Orders declined slightly on an organic basis due to the timing for some large projects leading to delayed order bookings.
However we've seen a nice uptick in the service bank of HPS and a higher mix of software content for projects leading the margin expansion for the business in the quarter.
Now BSD or Building Solutions &amp; Distribution the sales were up 5% organically so consistent performance with the first half of this year.
We continue to see a softening on the energy retrofit market for HPS which is being offset -- I'm sorry by -- for HBS which is probably being offset by growth in their services businesses along with growth in the security infrastructure projects and also increased volume in fire as well as in security and distribution.
Now segment profit for ACS increased 5% segment margins expanded 60 basis points to 14.4% so strong conversion in this operating environment.
The growth in margin rate was driven in large part by the combination of commercial excellence strong productivity including benefits from lower direct materials as well as some value engineering actions that the business took in -- throughout this year restructuring benefits and also strong management of indirect expenses this being then partially offset by continued investments that ACS continues to make for growth in both new products as well as geographies.
Let's now go to Slide 8 give you a summary for Performance Materials and Technologies or PMT.
Now for PMT in the quarter sales were up 1% UOP was up 7% Advanced Materials were down 3%.
Segment profit was up 8% segment margins expanded 130 basis points to 18.6% offsetting the continued challenging global and market conditions.
In UOP sales were up 7% in line with the expectations for the quarter.
Book-to-bill was again above 1 in the quarter for UOP and we continue to benefit from record backlog levels in that business.
Licensing and equipment sales were strong partially offset by the ramping down of the Petrobras FEED program the Front-End Engineering and Design work again as planned as guided.
And the business is executing well continuing to win new projects setting up nicely for another strong year in 2013.
And of course we couldn't be more pleased as Dave said about the addition of Thomas Russell to the UOP and PMT portfolio.
And we expect to close on Thomas Russell in the fourth quarter.
In Advanced Materials the Fluorine Products and Resins &amp; Chemicals businesses continue to see weak global end-market conditions which resulted in lower refrigerant sales as well as lower R&amp;C sales growth which were below our prior guidance.
And let me just give you an example for R&amp;C specifically just some insight into that.
In Asia capital pricing was actually down 55% from the same period last year.
And while that clearly impacts that decline in price clearly impacts the top line for R&amp;C and PMT it's really mitigated at the operating income line by pass-through pricing and also higher volumes.
So it partly explains both revenues below expectations and also margins being as strong as they are for PMT in the quarter.
Overall another strong quarter for PMT.
It's a business that continues to execute at the very high levels and we're continuing to see smart investments there which will capitalize on the growth opportunities that lie ahead.
Slide #9 Transportation Systems.
In the quarter sales were down as we said 10% reported but only 2% on an organic basis.
So despite a tough macro environment the majority of the declines were driven by foreign exchange.
Now transportation has mitigated much of the macro impact by executing flawlessly on a number of Turbo launches in the quarter as well as a steady increase that we've experienced and benefited from in U.S.
gas penetration which has helped offset European production decline.
Now regarding the macro headwind for TS the European light vehicle production was down 6% in the quarter while Western European diesel penetration remained essentially flat.
However the relative strength of TS outside of Europe in a number of markets again helps reinforce the importance of our strategy to diversify geographically.
Just to give you a little more color we're growing clearly in the light vehicle gas segment and we expect penetration for that segment to double globally over the next 5 years.
We see the fastest growth experienced -- being experienced over the next 5 years in North America and China where we're also growing off a slower base what will be a meaningful piece of our businesses as we continue to expand the presence in these regions.
Now TS segment profit in the quarter was down only 14% including 11% from foreign exchange despite the 10% sales decline.
So productivity gains from HOS repositioning benefits both helped offset the impact of lower volumes.
And the impact also of ongoing projects that we've been funding to drive operational improvements in the Friction Materials business.
As you know we've continued to invest during this downturn to improve the efficiency and flexibility of TS which has improved our cost position for both Turbo and Friction and it's expected to drive further productivity benefits in the coming years.
So with a background on the businesses for the quarter let's go to Slide 10 and give you a summary preview for the fourth quarter.
So as we close out the year -- but we're expecting sales of $9.4 billion to $9.6 billion roughly flat to up 1% compared to the same period last year.
And by business just a couple of highlights.
In Aerospace we expect fourth quarter sales to be roughly flat year-over-year with continued growth in the Commercial side in Commercial OE which we expect to be frankly up double digit and also commercial aftermarket growth recoupling to utilization.
This will be offset as I said earlier by Defense and Space.
We're expecting program-specific declines again notably the TIGER program which will lead to declines of approximately 6% to 8% in the fourth quarter consistent with our expectations that D&amp;S will be down for the full year by about 4%.
In ACS in the fourth quarter we expect sales up 1% to 3% with modest growth across each of the businesses.
Now the ESS comps are expected to ease modestly particularly in ECC where as you recall we essentially had a non-winter the last season.
And there's -- clearly the possibility of a more traditional winter heating season this year.
However we're still expecting our short cycle end markets overall to be somewhat challenged particularly in Europe.
In our long cycle solutions businesses we're expecting growth to slow modestly as we've seen some slower conversion of backlog with project delays.
In Performance Materials PMT for the fourth quarter we expect sales up 4% to 6% including the favorable impact of the Thomas Russell acquisition.
And consistent with our earlier expectations and what we've communicated to you we expect UOP growth to be roughly flat organically in the fourth quarter versus and just put it in perspective the 19% organic growth that UOP has experienced year-to-date.
We expect UOP to see continued growth however in 2013 driven by their strong backlog of projects and new wins and just the amount of activity that's taking place in that space.
The Advanced Materials piece of PMT in the fourth quarter is expected to be up modestly on an organic basis as new product introductions will help offset continued weak end markets overall.
And finally we expect Transportation to have another challenging quarter driven by the impact of lower EU light vehicle production which we expect to be down about 9% in the quarter partially offset by increased global Turbo penetration and also new launches.
And of course currency will continue to be a headwind as we're planning at a euro rate of approximately $1.25 versus the $1.35 actual of last year impacting sales by roughly 5%.
So we think it's prudent to being conservative in our top line planning and as we expect to execute however on both cost and productivity actions.
To put it in perspective at the midpoint of our guidance our sales will be approximately 3% higher than our last peak in 2008 but segment profit will be up over 20%.
So with that in mind you can see sales are expected to be flat to up 1% in the fourth quarter.
However pro forma EPS which excludes any mark-to-market adjustment of about 2% to 7% and if you'd normalize the effect for the tax rate and let me just state that again pro forma EPS we expect to be up 2% to 7% but if you normalize the effective tax rate to our usual 26.5% versus again the planned a little bit over 30% we would now anticipate in the fourth quarter EPS in the fourth quarter would be $1.13 to $1.18 up 6% to 10%.
So you can see on -- slower sales growth very good conversion driving strong earnings growth expected for the fourth quarter.
Let's talk now -- this is on Slide #11.
This is a slide that we've utilized with you previously.
We utilized this in July and we've updated it now for you here in October.
We think it gives you helpful insights in terms of how we're thinking about the second half of the year.
What we've done here is we've updated each of these elements and shown you any changes in terms of how we're tracking and we've shown those changes in red.
As you can see some things are running slightly ahead of expectations like productivity and sales conversion.
And others are running slightly behind like in Transportation Systems with lower expected European macro specifically lower European light vehicle production.
Now you can see commercial aftermarket starting at the top of the page in Aerospace has held up well particularly BGA where growth is significantly outpacing utilization rates.
However not counting on further slowing of ATR flight hour growth which we saw in the third quarter driven by weak regional jet traffic.
So for the fourth quarter we're going to expect tougher ATR aftermarket comps particularly due to the very strong rate of improvement in the fourth quarter of 2011 and moderating BGA aftermarket growth.
For ESS ESS should see a benefit from a slight easing of year-over-year comps resulting in low organic growth in the fourth quarter driven by new products again and expansion in high growth regions.
And in Advanced Materials and R&amp;C the pricing environment we expect to remain weak with challenges supply and demand conditions.
However we expect this to be offset by higher volumes.
But likely this continues to be a headwind for us in the fourth quarter particularly on the revenue side as we talked earlier I gave you the example earlier.
Now the euro came right into the middle of our range and while we're currently above the $1.25 it's still obviously very fluid.
So it's worth pointing out that we'll see almost for the year $700 million of top line foreign currency headwind of 2012.
And while we can't be certain what 2013 will bring at current rates we would not have obviously that degree of headwind.
So taken together we're staying balanced in our framing and importantly the midpoint of our previous range remains intact with a tightened full year 2012 EPS range of $4.45 to $4.50.
So finally just before going to Q&amp;A let's spend a couple of minutes giving you our preliminary thoughts on 2013.
Obviously a lot of uncertainty out there but still some things are starting to take shape.
As always obviously we'll provide guidance in mid-December -- specific guidance in mid-December.
So looking at Slide 12 on the left side of the chart you'll see reflected the current full year outlook for sales and segment profit for 2012 assuming the midpoint of guidance for each of our businesses.
Now what stands out of course is the terrific margin performance in each of the businesses in 2012.
And to put that in perspective we originally planned segment margin for Honeywell for '12 in the range of 15% to 15.3%.
We're now looking at margins for the company to be in the range of 15.6% to 15.7% on over $700 million of lower sales.
So as Dave mentioned this performance really underscores our ability to outperform in both the good and the tough economic times.
Now again while we're in the early stages of planning for 2013 we believe we are well positioned given what we're seeing in our major end markets what we're hearing from customers the strength that we're carrying in our end -- our long cycle backlog and of course the continued traction on new products as well as our geographic expansion.
Starting with Aero on the Commercial side we expect aftermarket growth will be largely tied to flight hours but OE should see continued strong performance driven by higher OEM deliveries.
We have terrific exposure on several platforms ramping up which included the 787 the 747-800 the G280 the G650 and the backlogs at these OEMs look strong and stable.
Aerospace has won over $20 billion in lifetime value of new unannounced business.
And while many of those remain several years out we think it speaks to the quality of the long-term outlook for the Aerospace business.
For Defense we expect another year of manageable decline scenario planning around continuing resolution uncertainty and possible sequestration is ongoing.
But consistent with our communications we think the high probability outcome is to find the floor in Defense given the reset of the U.S.
budget in 2013 and returning to modest growth in 2014.
And as a reminder we'll be doing a Defense Investor Day in November where we'll discuss some of the possible outcomes from our scenario planning.
In ACS we're planning for continued challenging end markets in 2013 despite the possibility for some macro easing making our focus on new products and expansion in high-growth regions that's much more important for growth.
Fortunately we have good visibility in the Solutions businesses driven by stable backlogs.
Again though we're planning for slower growth with some project timing in the Solutions businesses resulting in delays which will impact the timing of backlog conversion and new order rate.
So in this environment ACS is going to continue to focus on our productivity levers the implementation of HOS continued penetration on SAP/ERP as well as continuing to execute on previously funded restructuring actions as they continue to focus on profitable growth and good margin expansion.
Turning to PMT.
UOP is poised for another strong year with record backlog and the addition the exciting addition of Thomas Russell.
Advanced Materials is planning for more of the same in their key end markets and similar to ACS you going to see growth coming from new products and applications across that portfolio.
PMT is making some attractive high return investments in new capacity to support growth and project wins.
These investments we believe make a lot of sense and are expected to contribute to sales growth and continued margin expansion in PMT in the coming years.
For Transportation for '13 we expect EU light vehicle production to be flat to down slightly.
And for planning purposes we've seen more pronounced headwinds in the production rate in the first half of 2013 while on the other hand the business is very well positioned with new launches supporting the proliferation of Turbo penetration in both the U.S.
and China.
Those themes are going to continue.
They're going to provide a healthy multiyear tailwind for Transportation with penetration expecting to double over the next 5 years.
And as a reminder Alex and his team have secured over $2.8 billion in new program wins year-to-date.
So new launches are a very meaningful driver of growth for Transportation.
So we're still in the process of rolling up our 2013 forecast.
And again our preliminary framework for 2013 we think has remained appropriately balanced.
We're quite positive on the operational side.
As we've said in the past we expect to grow earnings at a multiple of sales in what will likely be a slow growth environment.
And this consistency of execution continues to put us on a very credible path to achieve our 2014 target.
And again as a reminder we'll have the more detailed outlook with you on our Guidance Call on December 17.
So now let's just go to Slide 13 for a quick summary before turning it over to Elena for Q&amp;A.
So another quarter obviously left to go but we feel very good about how we've performed year-to-date and we -- you know the numbers.
There's no question it's been a challenging year.
Certainly more so than we expected at the beginning but Honeywell has delivered against our expectations continuing to build on our track record of execution in both good and bad times.
The playbook as Dave has said is clearly working.
We've got good traction with HOS in each of our businesses.
We're expecting 70% bronze or better in all of our sites by year end.
We've increased R&amp;D spending.
We've amplified the effectiveness of R&amp;D with VPD.
And Functional Transformation is continuing to allow our businesses to improve service at lower cost achieving 2 seemingly conflicting things at once.
Now we're planning for another year of top line slow growth in '13 as we said but continued strong margin expansion.
The results of our seed planting investments are going to provide upside in an overall weak end-market environment.
And that said with any macro easing and a stable foreign currency rate and I cited the amount of headwind that we've experienced in 2012 nearly $700 million in revenues equivalent to about $100 million of operating income impact to 2012.
We could see earnings growth similar to what we're seeing this year.
In any case we're going to remain flexible ready for either scenario with disciplined cost controls benefits from an improved cost position allowing us to continue to invest in the future.
So we look forward to the dialogue with you on December 17.
And with that Elena I'll took it over -- turn it over to you for Q&amp;A.
Thanks Dave.
Stephanie you can open the line and we'll take our first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Steven Winoker from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just maybe one detail question then I'd like to back up for a higher level one.
On the detailed side just how are you thinking what's your visibility into pension for the fourth quarter? And how you're thinking about that these days? Well I think on the pension side we're looking at numbers right now Steve mid-80s in terms of a funded percent status.
That means we're going to be in a pretty healthy mode going into 2013.
So on the contribution side we're just plan to play that by ear.
There's no determined amount or required amount of funding in 2013 so we'll play that by ear.
From a mark-to-market standpoint we're going to have some mark-to-market expense undoubtedly at least in terms of where rates are right now.
But the fact of the matter is and you've heard us say before but the reality is we're going to have a rate tailwind at some point.
So we're going to play that smartly continue to look at that as something that we're going to manage very very carefully but frankly we feel very good about the position that we're in overall regarding the funded status and the funding requirements for pension.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just backing up Dave you talked about starting to hit critical mass in the businesses and we're seeing continued cost control and margin expansion and I'm sure that pricing dynamics are based into -- baked into that too.
But as you sort of look at the quarter in the face of all these headwinds can you talk a little bit about what you mean by critical mass here and how it affects the margin side of the business a little bit? And in light of the current environment and other dynamics how you're thinking is evolving or continuing to evolve on the margin expansion side from a kind of peak-to-peak perspective? Yes on the -- what I mean by critical mass is -- I mean you've heard me use this phrase a lot this goes slow to go fast so when it came to HOS we wanted to make sure we got it right and it was more important to get it right so that it was sustainable for a long period of time.
So in the beginning it was kind of slow as you know and it took us time to build that up and in the beginning actually cost us something eventually got to neutral then started to provide some benefit.
Now we're starting to see the benefits really come through because when you start getting to 70% of your manufacturing sites at bronze or better you really start to see some big benefits from it as we've said before.
When it comes to margin expansion as you know we've always said that that was going to happen.
We put out the 5-year plan and we felt pretty confident about being able to do that given all the seed planting that we've done not just on the cost side but on the growth side also to help mitigate some of the growth headwinds that we see.
So between the kind of the growth plan that we've done and the seed planting that we've done on the cost side with the process initiatives that's what's allowing us to be able to drive these kind of margin rates on slower sales growth and still be investing in the R&amp;D and the CapEx that we need to keep growing.
So we actually feel pretty good about that.
And I'm sure you recognize that making the change to the growth plan the way we did to focus on margins was very timely given that we expected we were going to be seeing something like this economically and we wanted to provide that assurance externally that we did understand and we were willing to put our compensation on the line to deliver it.
So we feel pretty good about it.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And just the pricing dynamics a little bit more sort of near term what you are seeing out there? From a pricing perspective it's still okay.
As you know we're not a -- you're never going to see a 7% price increase from us unless it's driven by raws like in R&amp;C.
But by and large we still expect that it should be -- that it should work out just fine for us.
Our next question comes from Scott Davis from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Dave Cote in your opening remarks you seemed a little bit more optimistic about the macro picture the demand picture than maybe some of your peers and some of the other calls we've had the last week or so.
I mean what are you seeing out there that gives you some confidence that China is in fact kind of making a turn and that the U.S.
isn't getting worse here? When you cited short cycle businesses can you be more specific I guess? Well I'd I guess divide that into 2 pieces.
On the macro side I don't believe there's a recession coming.
But I do believe that there's a slow growth environment most likely to occur just because the world democracies are in gridlock over debt whether it's Japan India the EU the U.S.
we're in gridlock.
And I do believe there's the potential in the U.S.
and maybe even in the world for a good economic recovery if government would actually do their job here and resolve the fiscal cliff and the debt.
By the same token there's a potential disaster if they handle it poorly.
All that being said we're going to look at it as if it's just more of the same and you can't count on these guys doing what they need to.
And we need to think about it in terms of all right what's the kind of conservative way to plan this? So we're going to plan conservative macros like we normally do.
But overall I still believe global GDP grows next year.
When it comes to China in particular we grew again in China and we saw it both on the short cycle and the long cycle more driven by long cycle.
At the end of the day I think we have to factor in this leadership transition that's going to occur.
And as you know there's 2 offices one in October and the other transition is in the first quarter some time.
And I see in my view China is making the right kinds of decisions and they recognize what they need to do to make the changes that are economically required.
So I don't think it's smart to bet against them on this.
And we've done a lot on kind of thinking about how to manage through that.
So that's on the global macro side.
On say kind of the Honeywell micro side all the growth initiatives the seed planting that we've been doing for years because you don't just turn this on in 3 months is what causes me to feel that even in a tough global macro environment we can do pretty well.
So we're not counting on booming sales growth next year but we do believe that there will be growth for us even in that tough environment.
Research Division</strong> Good.
That explains it.
Can we move back to cash reinvestment? And I think most would agree the Thomas Russell deal looks pretty interesting.
I mean can -- you talked about having a pipeline but no real rush to do anything or not.
I think the words you used was nothing was needed per se nice to have not needed to have or something.
But I mean if you had -- on this trajectory you're going to be sitting on a fair amount of cash at the end of the year on your balance sheet.
I mean at what point do you say "Hey the market is not giving us enough credit here for execution.
We're going to start buying in our own stock or getting a little bit more aggressive with some of that cash"? Well hopefully you'll be impressed with the consistency of my answer over the last few years.
But we're still going to play that on kind of an opportunistic basis.
I don't have a number in mind that says "Okay this is way too much cash.
We need to do something." I also think in uncertain times it certainly doesn't hurt to have cash.
I prefer to have it than not.
We're going to continue to focus on how do we pay a good competitive dividend as you know and that's important.
It's an important return to shareowners.
And when it comes to acquisitions and repurchases we're going to continue to look at both because to the extent we can do Thomas Russell type acquisitions man that is a real value adder for the company and I think you'd want us doing that.
So I don't have a particular number in mind.
Dave I don't know if there's anything you can add.
No I think that's very well said.
Our next question comes from Jeff Sprague from Vertical Research Partners.
Just picking up on that point a little bit well understood what you said.
But it does sound like the pipeline is active and although you don't have must-haves it sounds like there's a lot of like-to-haves out there.
I mean how would you handicap the likelihood of you repeating a couple of these Thomas Russells over the next 6 12 18 months however you want to frame it? Well it's always tough to know Jeff because I said we always maintain a good pipeline and it's stuff that we want for the company so it's not a case of "Hey look that's for sale let's go take a look." This is more stuff that we plan for.
You just never know when all the conditions kind of strikes so that you have a property that make sense and most especially at a price that makes sense.
And that's always tough to predict.
So I'd have a tough time handicapping that one and I would just say we're going to keep our eyes open.
If something makes sense we'll do it.
If it doesn't we won't.
It's just a tough thing to predict.
And I know you don't want to get too far out over your skis on the 2013 outlook but I think Dave Anderson said 2013 EPS could look like -- the growth could look like 2012.
I mean what kind of revenue growth is predicated by that statement? I think we're looking at a low -- clearly a low single-digits kind of number Jeff for 2013 given the...
The sales growth.
The sales growth -- sorry organic sales growth the way that we're looking at the exits for -- exit rates for each of our businesses for 2012.
So that's the way we're thinking about next year.
So it comes back as Dave said it really puts the onus on the playbook of operational discipline continuing to emphasize value adding new products which give us a lot of leverage in the marketplace and continuing to grow in the highest growth markets.
So that's what we're going to do and...
Just to add to that I'd say in 10 years of doing this we have never once been bitten by being conservative in our sales outlook.
So we'd prefer to be on the conservative side of this.
And we'll look at -- okay global macro is not a big help.
FX we don't expect to be a big hit.
We've got the geographic the new product expansion that Dave was referencing and when we put all of that together we say "Okay the smart thing to do here as you plan your cost profile is to assume low single-digits sales growth " as Dave was saying.
And just part of backing that up obviously is the restructuring and just other internal operational execution things you've been working on.
It seemed like maybe there was an allusion to some additional restructuring I don't know if that was the intent.
But are there some other things that are potentially in the pipeline the next quarter or 2? I mean it's always possible and part of our model is an ongoing active review of restructuring opportunities.
We think that's very very healthy and in best interests of continued margin expansion earnings growth value creation.
What we've had on a year-to-date basis Jeff has been above what we would have expected on a gross basis and we've been able to do it as a result of strong operating earnings and also as a result of better-than-expected performance on previously funded repositionings.
So we've actually had a greater rate of attrition and other benefits that have allowed us to reduce the accruals on previous and take credits on credit for previously reserved restructurings which have actually helped us fund new restructuring.
So we've had -- as you know we continue to increase our guidance for 2013 in terms of what the incremental repositioning benefit will be.
And as I said today we're now looking at $150 million of incremental operating income lift in 2013 versus '12 as a result of the repositioning pipeline.
So that's very -- it's a very good point to bring up and very very much part of the playbook.
We're looking out for it Jeff to Dave's point but we've got a pile of stuff already funded that we need to -- we're in process of getting done.
So there's no need to do anything but we're certainly always going to be looking for opportunity.
Our next question comes from Nigel Coe from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I just want to pick on the point on repositioning.
So Dave I think you mentioned $150 million for 2013 the year-over-year benefits.
Does that mean that 2012 has gone up similarly to if that was $150 million where is that now standing for 2012? I think it's about $175 million the number for 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And with the bulk of that in the second half of the year I would assume? There's a lot yes it increases over the course of the year Nigel.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So now we know why your margins are so good.
Well yes.
It's certainly one of the contributors.
It's another good point.
Research Division</strong> Sure absolutely.
And then if we just switch to 2014.
You've been very helpful in 2013 already but you're already starting to bump up towards the lower end of your 2014 margin targets and I'm wondering and I know you're not going to change that but can we now think about the midpoint of the margin range as now the most probable target for 2014? I would say Nigel I know my story and I'm going to stick to it.
I'm going to -- the 5-year target is the 5-year target and it's my intent in 2014 to be able to show you "Look we did what we said and here's our new 5-year plan " so that hopefully you all look at it and go "Wow it's been almost 15 years of these guys doing exactly what they say.
Maybe we should give them the benefit of the doubt this time." Research Division</strong> Okay that's the story.
So are you still planning to put out another 5-year plan Dave? Yes when the time comes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then within the plan I think you've mentioned that you want to get friction back to breakeven by 2014.
And I'm wondering how does -- how is the deterioration in the European auto market impact that plan? And maybe you can just give us some color around that? Well it certainly doesn't help but at the same time the transformation program we have is very much on track so we feel pretty good about that.
And if there's any kind of sales help at all it will just make it better.
But certainly we're planning to and think we can get to.
Our final question comes from Shannon O'Callaghan from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> So on PMT margins we have a lot to choose from this year in terms of what a normal run rate is because you've got 22.6% in the second quarter going down to 18.6% and then you're implying a significant sort of decline in the fourth quarter to the midpoint of the guidance.
Can you give us kind of the sequential dynamics of what you see going on 2Q to 3Q and 3Q to 4Q and then maybe a little flavor on what you're thinking next year there? Well just to give you I guess a sense for it is it's a little bouncy between quarters in a year.
But as you might imagine Andreas is definitely planning and thinking about a margin rate increase next year and we all recognize the significance of that star performance.
One of the things that is going to help that is that UOP win rate in backlog is just terrific.
These guys just keep doing a great job.
Ever since we started kind of more of that horizon 3 investing and the geographic reach man it's really paid off.
So I would expect more goodness to come from that.
Dave I don't know if there's anything you want to add.
Yes just the one thing I think I would add in terms of just a detailed item and it's something that we've talked about previously it's just Shannon it's just the anticipation from UOP of less para-xylene particularly catalysts also some licensing in the fourth quarter.
And that's just associated we've used this term lumpy in the past as we've talked about UOP.
It's something that we've anticipated.
Therefore their margins will be a little bit lower than the run rate they've experienced on a year-to-date basis.
I've talked about that significant organic growth that 19% year-to-date revenue organic growth in UOP through the first 9 months.
So basically a flat top line and from if you will a makeup of their business some of the less of the more profitable elements of their business in the fourth quarter so -- but that's going to correct itself.
As Dave said that's all going to -- as we look forward to 2013 we're looking for a very strong start to the year out of PMT and out of UOP.
Research Division</strong> And you're also I guess going to have some -- these Thomas Russell deal costs will also hit in 4Q.
Is that part of the 4Q pressure? Yes there's a little bit of that in terms of margin diminution that will occur because we'll get some revenues without a lot of earnings or no earnings from Thomas Russell in the fourth quarter.
But we're actually looking for Thomas Russell to be accretive in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And then just -- can you talk maybe a little more color on this slowdown in backlog conversion and the push outs? I mean are these things that are being tabled for quite a while or just pushed out of quarter and where are you seeing them? Well specifically what we referenced is in the Process Solutions business as well as in the Building Solutions and for different reasons.
It's really on the Building Solutions it's really energy and energy retrofit.
Some of that has to do with just the regulatory requirements to enable some of the funding on the energy retrofits.
That's become more cumbersome more complex more time-consuming so we're seeing some delays.
The demand is still there.
We feel very very good about our overall positioning but it's going to create a slower growth profile for that business in 2013.
And on the Process Solutions side what we're seeing is just some delays in terms of project funding which is impacting their order rate which in turn will cause some near-term slowing in terms of the outlook that we have for them on the revenue side.
But again fundamentals remain very good very positive.
The pipeline of activity is excellent.
So it's just that we want to make sure that we're tempering if you will some of the top line outlook for both of those businesses as we transition from '12 to '13.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Dave for any final comments.
Yes thanks Elena.
As you can probably figure out by now we're quite pleased with our performance in the quarter and I certainly hope all of you are also.
And it's our intent to continue outperforming in the future.
The reason for all of that is the seed planting that we talk a lot about and that we're going to continue to do.
We were able to get this kind of margin performance even while continuing to invest the way that we need to whether it's geographically or new products.
And that seed planting it's just going to keep on going whether it's how do we grow or how do we make ourselves more efficient and it continues to pay off over time.
We're going to plan on a slow growth environment because we just think that's the prudent thing to do.
If we get any kind of macro help at all because we'll say the world's democracies actually start dealing intelligently with their debt this could be even better and we're hopeful that that will happen but we're sure as hell not going to count on it.
So we're excited about the future of Honeywell and where we're going and what we think we can do and I certainly hope you are also.
Thanks for listening.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Honeywell's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I'd now like to introduce your host for today's conference Elena Doom Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you Kevin.
Good morning and welcome to Honeywell's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Here with me today are Chairman and CEO Dave Cote; and Senior Vice President and CFO Dave Anderson.
This call and the webcast including any non-GAAP reconciliations are available on our website at www.honeywell.com/investor.
Please note that elements of today's presentation contain forward-looking statements that are based on our best view of the world and of our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change and we would ask that you interpret them in that light.
We also identified the principal risks and uncertainties that affect our performance in our Form 10-K and other SEC filings.
This morning we will review our financial results for the fourth quarter and the full year 2012 as well as share with you our guidance for the first quarter and full year 2013.
And finally we'll leave time for your questions.
With that I'll turn the call over to Dave Cote.
Thanks Elena.
Good morning everyone.
You can see Honeywell delivered another excellent quarter despite a still challenging macro environment.
As we've said before our goal is to be known as a company that outperforms and delivers in both good times and bad and I think our performance and track record really shows that.
We had modest sales growth in the quarter.
It was up about 1% on an organic basis yet we still continued to drive margin expansion up 50 basis points to 15.6% as well as pro forma EPS growth of 9% on an adjusted basis.
And that's using the same tax rate in both periods.
So we're starting 2013 with some positive momentum.
First the short-cycle order rates are improving slightly overall with stabilization in key developed regions and some pockets of growth particularly in China -- and other high-growth regions.
And that suggests a modest improvement in end market conditions.
Second pension is expected to generate income of $50 million to $75 million this year and that reflects the proactive funding we've done to date coupled with a higher-than-expected return on assets last year.
And third the euro exchange rate is a bit better.
Our outlook assumes an average euro dollar rate of $1.25.
We're tracking above those levels today but who knows what's going to happen with 11 months left in the year.
So for now we're cautiously optimistic but it's just too early to tell what direction the economy is going.
And we're all well too familiar with the issue big democracies around the world are still in gridlock over debt and the U.S.
is kicking the debt can down the road and finding that kick doesn't quite go as far as it used to.
All of these factors make forecasting what's going to happen a real challenge.
So we think it's prudent to remain conservative given that uncertainty.
To the extent the items noted are better it builds contingency to ensure we achieve our commitment.
We'll update you in March at our Annual Investor Conference as we always do.
Given the potential economic difficulties we're staying conservative on our sales outlook controlling costs and leveraging our enablers the Honeywell Operating System Velocity Product Development and Functional Transformation just like we did in '11 and '12.
We're planning conservatively and we're staying flexible ensuring that we can continue to respond to changes in the market.
We're also in the enviable position of having over $320 million of previously funded in-process repositioning which we continue to execute.
And this will give us a lift in 2013 as well as in future years.
So 2013 will be another year of outperformance for Honeywell and our focus on evolving in everything we do to become better and better creates a bright future even beyond this year.
Our strong pipeline of new wins is setting us up for a multiyear cycle of outperformance.
As examples Aerospace was awarded the 737 MAX Bleed Air system and several other mechanical systems wins.
We signed an agreement to provide SyberJet with our Primus APEX avionics and there are also several other unannounced wins.
And that's just in Aerospace.
At the Honeywell level we finished the year with a record backlog roughly $15.8 billion with new platform wins across many of our businesses last year.
To support this growth we sustained high levels of R&amp;D spending up approximately 25% versus 2010.
We've also increased CapEx spending 11% in -- last year and we'll increase it again this year ensuring that we meet our commitments to our customers particularly in PMT.
So from the earliest stages of developing innovative new products that customers value to executing on that delivery the Honeywell pipeline looks full.
We're developing a thinking company not thinking as in spending days in contemplation or thinking as an anarchy so you don't have to do what's requested but rather thinking as in understanding why we do things.
That concept underlies our big process initiatives like the Honeywell Operating System Velocity Product Development and Functional Transformation.
We want to be able to do everything right and fast.
It's through our continued evolution that will sustain our outperformance.
In a slow growth global economy this becomes especially important for margin rate growth.
These tools have become part of the Honeywell culture along with our strong operating disciplines and shared best practices all translating into meaningful productivity gains.
We think that puts us in an excellent position to achieve our 2014 sales and margin commitments as a company.
Having Great Positions in Good Industries the power of One Honeywell our consistent focus on improving every year in each of our 5 initiatives it really makes a difference.
And as always we'll update you on our progress in March at our Annual Investor Conference which will be focused this year on delivering 2014.
We plan to highlight a number of tailwinds driving enhanced growth and productivity across each of our businesses which we expect will allow us to deliver on our long-term targets and beyond.
Again we have a high level of confidence that these targets are in range and achievable which makes for a very exciting future and we look forward to delivering on that opportunity.
So with that I'll turn it over to Dave.
Thanks Dave.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for participating on this morning's call.
Let's go to Slide 4 entitled 4Q 2012 Results.
And I'm just going to take you through the summer [ph] results for the quarter which as you know came in largely as expected when we gave you our December outlook.
Sales for the quarter of $9.6 billion were up 1% on both a reported and organic basis.
And on a regional basis the U.S.
was up approximately 2% Europe was down 3% China sales were up approximately 10%.
Now sales did come in a little bit better than we expected in December as a result of both improved organic growth in ACS as well as Transportation Systems and also favorability in terms of our assumption on foreign exchange and all of this drove approximately $50 million in terms of higher sales.
Segment profit was up 5% in the quarter.
Segment margins expanded 50 basis points.
I'm going to walk you through the individual drivers when we go through each of the businesses in just a moment.
But a high-level productivity continues to be very strong more than offsetting inflation and enabling continued investment for growth.
Below the line for the quarter was as expected which was also consistent with our prior run rates so no surprises there.
And the tax rate was higher.
We gave you the guidance on that.
It was higher than normal at 30.6% which is when in keeping with our full year 26.5% rate that we also guided to.
Now pro forma earnings per share which excludes the impact of the fourth quarter mark-to-market adjustment for pension was $1.10 an increase of 5% on a year-over-year basis.
However if you normalize for taxes which recall didn't impact the full year just the quarters EPS growth would've been 9%.
And fourth quarter reported EPS was $0.32 which included roughly $1 billion of pretax mark-to-market and this reflects a discount rate of 4.06% and a return on assets for the year of 13.5%.
And finally free cash flow for the quarter was $1.3 billion representing approximately 150% free cash flow conversion.
So with that summary for the quarter let's go to a summer [ph] format and summary for the full year 2012 on Slide 5.
2012 sales were up 3% on both a reported and an organic basis to $37.7 billion.
Segment profit was up 10% more than 3x the growth in sales demonstrating impressive conversion and resulted in 90 basis points of margin expansion to 15.6%.
So it's another record year.
And you recall that in 2011 we grew segment margin by 90 basis points over 2010 so an impressive back-to-back performance by Honeywell.
Now all of this resulted in pro forma earnings per share of $4.48 up 11% over 2011.
You recall we set the bar pretty high for 2012 and we delivered at the high end of the range.
And finally free cash flow was $3.7 billion representing over 100% conversion demonstrating a consistently high quality of earnings and working capital management while funding approximately $100 million higher CapEx in 2012 compared to full year 2011.
So now let's go to Aerospace on Slide 6.
And you can see here fourth quarter sales for Aero slightly down driven by the expected 6% decline in Defense and Space partially offset by continued good growth on the commercial side.
Now Commercial OE was up 5% in the quarter.
Air transport up 6%; Business and General Aviation up 4% both benefiting from our strong positions on key new platforms.
And for the year Commercial OE was up 19% or 12% if you exclude the impact of the prior year's BGA OE payments and the EMS acquisitions so really kind of giving you if you want organic look in terms of Commercial OE growth.
All of that was driven by increased deliveries for both large air transport as well as business jets.
We saw the benefits in growth in Boeing and Airbus deliveries resulting from the ongoing ramp-up in production rate and also the continued healthy demand in the mid to large cabin business aircraft segment where as you know we're well positioned and we continue to outperform.
Now the commercial aftermarket for Aero sales were up 3% in the quarter.
ETR was roughly flat.
Air transport roughly flat.
We saw some moderating growth as expected in business aviation in the aftermarket as we begin to lap significantly tougher year-over-year comps.
We also saw higher U.S.
airline inventories and that weighed somewhat on spares orders in the fourth quarter.
However overall flight hours remained positive up 1% in the fourth quarter.
And we expect flight hour growth as you recall to be up in the 2.5% to 3.5% range in 2013 which will continue to drive growth in the aftermarket albeit at a slower rate than what we experienced in '12.
Now for Defense and Space I talked about the 6% down as expected in the quarter.
We lapped of course difficult comps that resulted from the wind down of the TIGER program.
And we had lower space sales and some other programmatic completions but again on track relative to expectations.
For the full year D&amp;S was down 3% slightly better than we had originally planned for the year.
And Mike Madsen and the team Tim Mahoney and the team really deserve a lot of credit for their pursuit of international opportunities which are continuing to mitigate some of the budget headwinds that we expect in both 2013 and beyond.
Now margins for Aerospace in the fourth quarter they expanded an impressive 110 basis points to 19.9%.
For the year segment margins grew 130 basis points to 18.9% as a result of terrific sales conversion also driven by commercial excellence and material and operational productivity.
I'd also point out that adjusted for the BGA OE payments that I've referenced earlier Aero's margins would still be have been up an impressive 60 basis points in the year.
So let's go now to ACS on Slide #7 and take you through again the highlights for the -- for both the fourth quarter and -- as well as for the full year of 2012.
Sales for ACF -- ACS were up 3% in the fourth quarter on both reported and organic basis in line with the full year organic rate of about 3%.
Regionally the U.S.
was up 4% Europe was up 1% China was up 7% organically with signs of stability in the developed markets and also obviously improvement in high-growth regions mainly China in the quarter.
Let's go through some of the highlights for the major business segments of ACS.
For ESS for Energy Safety and Security sales were up 4% on an organic basis reflecting an uptick from the roughly flat sales growth we had through the first 3 quarters of 2012.
Now Environmental Combustion and Control ECC saw significant improvement up 6% organically in the quarter driven by modest recovery in the North America and China markets but also easier year-over-year comps.
We also saw continued strength in both Security and Scanning &amp; Mobility driven by new product introductions as well as contract wins.
And importantly we believe the sensing and control business declines have now leveled off.
And this is important obviously because this business has really been a leading indicator for our shorter-cycle businesses and we're expecting improvement there over the course of 2013.
Process Solutions sales for ACS were up 3% organically in the quarter.
Project orders were down driven by continued extension of project timing by customers and also difficult comps versus the fourth quarter of 2011 where we booked several very large projects.
You recall us talking about that in the December guidance call in terms of really that expectation for HPS orders.
Important to note we have seen an improvement in backlog margins for HPS.
That's really due to the continued focus on accretive growth and it's been a contributor to ACS' overall margin rate improvement.
Finally for Building Systems -- or Building Solutions and Distribution BSD sales were up 1% organically in the quarter.
We continued to see energy orders push out due to a challenging funding and capital oversight environment for Building Solutions particularly in the U.S.
and Europe and this is being partially offset by good growth in China and also in some of the other high-growth regions.
Now I think what really is notable on this slide is the ACS margins up a strong 110 basis points in the quarter to 15.5% which by the way is a new record for ACS.
And this performance was driven by again the theme of commercial excellence and productivity net of inflation.
For the year segment margins for ACS were up an impressive 70 basis points to 14.1% and importantly ACS had margin expansion in 2012 in every business.
So now let's take a quick look at PMT on Slide 8 Performance Materials and Technologies.
You can see PMT delivered another strong year with record sales and segment margins while continuing to invest for growth.
Sales for the fourth quarter for PMT were up 8% 2% organic.
Of course the 8% driven primarily by the Thomas Russell acquisition as well as new product applications in Advanced Materials.
Those mitigated a weak macro environment across Advanced Materials.
Now the fourth quarter sales at UOP were up 13% reported but down 4% organic as expected due to the timing of catalyst shipments the big catalyst quarter expected now in the first quarter of 2013.
For the year UOP sales were up 17% 12% organically.
They ended the year with record backlog of 2 point up -- $2.8 billion up 49% year-over-year or 18% organically driven in part by a series of major wins towards technology to produce petrochemicals in both natural gas as well as coal.
Now Advanced Materials for PMT were up 5% in the quarter 5% organically consistent with the positive growth we've seen in some of our other short-cycle businesses.
However fluorine products in Resins &amp; Chemicals continued to see tough markets overall and we will expect that to continue somewhat in 2013.
That said we also expect a ramp-up in new product offerings as we enter new -- important new products and those are going to provide tailwinds for us over the course of 2013 into 2014.
Segment profit for PMT was down 6% but up 11% for the year.
Margins in the quarter as expected down about 200 basis points primarily driven by the lower UOP catalyst shipments I referenced and also some unfavorable Resins &amp; Chemicals price-to-raws relationship.
However for the year segment margins for PMT were up 30 basis points to 18.7% so a very impressive 2012 for PMT.
And we continue to expect -- we get this question a lot about PMT and in terms of the ongoing run rate in terms of its margins rates and we expect that to continue to be in the 18% 18.5%-plus range.
Andreas's team will continue to execute on a number of smart investments and they'll continue to capitalize on growth opportunities that lie ahead.
And I'm sure he'll probably talk about that at our March Investor Day.
Transportation Systems Slide #9 performing well despite the challenging European macro environment.
Sales in the quarter were down 8% organically in TS against a very difficult quarter for light vehicle production in terms of the industry.
We anticipate that industry down approximately 10% year-over-year.
However TS has seen the benefit of new platform launches.
It's also seeing its higher gas penetration benefits in both the U.S.
as well as in China.
Now we saw some signs of stabilization in Europe as we exited December coupled with a modest uptick in China for the fourth quarter.
However we continue to expect a difficult environment for Europe in the first quarter and we think it's prudent to plan -- as Dave said plan conservatively and watch the market closely while preparing for an upturn later in the year 2013.
Segment margins were down for TS 130 basis points in the quarter but just 50 basis points for the year.
And of course the margin degradation is driven by lower volumes some unfavorable mix in foreign exchange partially offset by very strong productivity and actions by Alex and his team.
Now we're investing obviously to continue to improve the efficiency and flexibility of Transportation Systems.
And we've got an overall cost -- improved cost and competitive footprint in both Turbo and Friction and we're going to see these benefits driving further productivity gains as we progress over the course of '13 and of course 2014.
So let's now go to Slide #10 and just do a quick repeat -- reprise of our 2013 guidance.
As you can see we're reaffirming 2013.
Our '12 results finished as expected.
And as Dave referenced the year-end U.S.
fiscal compromise didn't do much to change our view of the macro environment.
That uncertainty still hangs out there.
Now we're still expecting sales to be up on a reported basis 4% to 5% 1% to 3% on an organic basis.
One thing I do want to point out here is that we planned and this builds on Dave's point that he mentioned in his opening remarks for the midpoint of our guidance to be an average rate of $1.25 for the euro and continue to think that's the prudent planning approach.
However as we've indicated on the bottom right of the page a strong euro or a stronger euro is one of the drivers that could push sales and segment profit towards the high end of our range.
Now obviously on the other hand business mix other items could push us to the lower end.
Now below the line items we'll have some puts and takes but we're expecting the net to be favorable on a year-over-year basis.
And a component of this is that $50 million to $75 million of pension income in 2013 that we now expect slightly more tailwind than we indicated when we gave guidance in December.
Now this positive is driven by the proactive funding we've done to date and you recall that funding in '10 '11 and as well as '12.
It's also attributable to a higher-than-expected return on plan assets in 2012 and partially offset by a lower assumed rate of return that's effective in 2013.
Now we're still operating with a range for pension income given the formed plan estimates for which we don't anticipate to be finalized for a few more months.
Now importantly on the tax front we're still planning for a 26.5% rate unchanged from 2012.
Earnings per share $4.75 to $4.95 up 6% to 11% over the $4.48 for 2012.
And we'll continue to generate strong free cash flow despite higher levels of CapEx spending that we'll have this year to really fund growth investments.
So in summary we're sticking with our guidance from December with a higher level of confidence and with potential upside that for now we think make sense as Dave said to hold this contingency and could be used among other things to fund repositioning and other actions in the year given the uncertainty that is still prevalent in the economy.
So now let's go to Slide 11 and let's talk about the -- then the so-what-of-that [ph] for the first quarter.
For the first quarter we're expecting sales as you can see to be in the range of $9.3 billion to $9.5 billion flat to up 2% on a reported basis.
EPS we're expecting to be in the range of $1.10 to a $1.15 in line with that 6% to 11% increase that we're looking for the full year for 2013 and represents roughly 23% of our full year guidance.
So that's in line with our normal linearity.
So with that let's take a look at the businesses just a couple of points on the first quarter for each of them.
Aero we expect sales to be roughly flat to down slightly on a year-over-year basis driven by continued modest Defense and sales decline we're thinking of the -- that D&amp;S will be down about 3% and also some challenging comps on the commercial side both on the OE side particularly BGA and also on the aftermarket.
ACS sales we expect to be flat to up 2%.
Overall we're seeing stability in their major end markets with pockets of growth emerging.
We're also expecting low single-digit growth in both HPS and BSD which are in line with those recent order trends that I talked to you about.
For PMT we're expecting sales up 7% to 9% or flat to down slightly on an organic basis and driven by a robust quarter for catalyst shipments in UOP and the addition of -- obviously of Thomas Russell adding to that reported growth providing tailwind to us.
Advanced Materials on the other hand is expecting mid- to high single-digit declines due to the challenging end market dynamics and also some lower volumes for PMT.
Finally in Transportation Systems we're expecting sales to be down 5% to 7% driven by continued weak light vehicle production particularly in Europe as we referenced earlier.
And we're also expecting EU light vehicle production that is the industry to be down again in the first quarter in the range of about 10%.
And we also expect some continued foreign currency headwinds and again that may be mitigated if we continue to see some favorability in terms of our euro-to-dollar assumption.
So as you can see a relatively modest planning assumptions around the top line sales across the business but generating again very good EPS growth in terms of our outlook for the first quarter.
So with that Elena before we go to Q&amp;A let me just summarize on Slide #12.
Obviously 2012 was another great year for Honeywell another year of outperformance.
We set and we met high expectations particularly as it relates to earnings growth and cash generation.
Now we also continue to invest for the future doing as Dave said smart things that will continue to deliver value in future periods.
Now as we turn the page to 2013 we're planning another year of strong margin expansion in a slow growth environment.
We've seen signs of stability.
The horizon looks a little brighter than it did even a couple of weeks ago but nothing to suggest that anything less than conservative planning is best at this point.
The Honeywell playbook is working.
We're continuing to evolve as a thinking company.
We're improving and leveraging our key process enablers and our productivity tools.
We're growing faster than our served markets and we're doing everything more efficiently to drive continued outperformance versus our peers.
Now 2013 is an exciting year for us not just because of what we're going to do this year but because it's another yardstick closer to the 2014 targets we set back in 2010.
We've got a lot of momentum as we prepare to make the final push for 2014 with tailwinds across a number of the businesses for growth as well as increased productivity.
And again as Dave said this is going to be the focus of our upcoming March 16 Investor Conference in New York City delivering 2014 from innovation to execution.
And as we continue to evolve as a company the strong portfolio that we've created the unified One Honeywell culture and our continuous improvement process disciplines these are the keys to how we're going to deliver the 2014 targets and continue to position for strong outperformance beyond that.
So with that now Elena let's go over to you for Q&amp;A.
Thanks Dave.
March 6.
Just one clarification so Investor Conference March 6 in New York City.
Thank you very much.
Kevin if you could now open the line we'll take our first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Scott Davis with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> One of the things that you didn't address in the presentation was cash reinvestment for 2013.
I'm guessing since you don't have to make a pension contribution you're probably sitting on a fair amount of cash at this point.
I mean what's your thought on to potentially buying back some stock? Or are there more deals out there like Thomas Russell that maybe you can comment on that? Well a couple of comments then I'll turn it over to Dave.
But -- we did go through a bunch of that in the December call.
Our plan really haven't changed all that much.
We raised the dividend by 10%.
We bought back some shares in December last year.
We're saying we'll hold share count about flat with the fourth quarter this year.
And as we've said in the past I mean that policy still hasn't changed when it comes to acquisitions and additional repurchases.
We're going to be opportunistic about what do we think make sense so hasn't really changed from what we said in December.
Dave anything you want to add? No I would say absolutely we're on track for that.
And you obviously fund the Intermec acquisition Dave during the course of the year.
The one thing I would just say is -- obviously is the acquisition pipeline continues...
That looks good.
Continues to be attractive.
We're going to continue to leverage our strong disciplines both in terms of price paid as well as execution and the integration.
But that looks good.
I think the share buyback is absolutely on track.
We're going to have over $1.3 billion cash outflow for dividends in 2013 and obviously very positive feedback that we're getting in terms of that continued rate of growth on the dividend.
So that's really the story Scott.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
The -- one of the highlights to me in the quarter at least is the ACS margin.
And we've talked about this I think for several quarters.
Things have been progressing really nicely there.
I mean we -- I don't think in our model we had ACS margins over 15% until like 2016 or something.
So you're way ahead of that pace.
What -- when you think about this quarter the 15.5% number you referenced kind of positive inflation impact and maybe that is some impact.
But help us understand what's sustainable on that kind of over 15% level and what may be more a transitory or mix related? Well for ACS I mean none of this stuff is transitory.
This is kind of consistent with that concept of evolution in everything that we do that we've talked about is we're just going to keep steadily building on what we've done before.
So I fully expect ACS continues to increase their margin rates just like I expected in Aero I expected in PMT and TS and total company.
So we're not very subtle.
In fact I can't think of any transitory or onetime gains that we generally ever let fall through on anything.
We tend to use those for repositioning.
So I'd say very sustainable.
Dave anything you...
Well I just say that we have 14.1% margin for ACS for the year which is a record.
We're going to continue to build there.
It's really -- we hope we're going to get a little more volume leverage.
That would be terrific.
I mean I think we would see really terrific conversion there I mean everything that Roger and the team are doing on the productivity on the cost side of the equation.
So it's -- you're going to see -- there's going to be sequential differences.
First quarter is going to be different than the fourth quarter.
But when you look at really year-over-year as Dave said it's a sustained improvement that we're really targeting and the business is confident that they're going to be able to deliver.
And the formula Scott you know the formula that we're using.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No I think what I was specifically referencing is you do talk about inflation.
So I'm guessing that there's a price-cost spread that's in there that has some sort of an impact that we wouldn't want to model that going forward.
So I'm not talking about onetime gains or anything like that.
Yes.
The -- just -- Scott on the price to cost side it's actually slightly unfavorable.
But ACS is mitigating that through strong material productivity and even building on their performance in the quarter.
They also offset some negative mix of roughly out 20 30 basis points in the quarter.
So I think it's productivity across-the-board both in terms of operational productivity and material productivity.
We go next to the site of Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So obviously you alluded to the fact that you got a bit more contingency in the plan due to maybe where the FX rate is right now and some other factors such as pension but obviously keeping a conservative view on the year.
But I'm wondering if we're in a situation now where perhaps there's some -- there's a few more good guys than bad guys as we go through the year.
What does the -- how does the repo pipeline look at this point? And is the policy to accelerate repo this year and maybe flow it through next year or do you see the potential for maybe a balance between additional repo and perhaps upside to the plan? Well we always want flexibility on repositioning.
We're always looking at projects.
But as you know we've got over $300 million worth of projects that are already funded that we need to work our way through.
We like having the flexibility in the event that there is a really good idea that comes forward.
But just executing on what we've already funded is going to be a real boost for us going forward.
And I think we've provided those numbers for this year and I don't know about 2014.
Yes the incremental benefit that we're assuming is roughly $150 million in 2013.
This year yes.
Research Division</strong> Does that then flow through into '14 as well? Is there an incremental into '14 too? There is Nigel.
Off the top of my head I don't have that and I think it's something we can provide certainly in March.
Well the important thing maybe Elena just to add to that is we funded on a gross basis $120 million of repositioning in 2012.
Already on top of what we'd...
We've already done.
And so -- and by the way some very attractive...
Good projects.
Payback projects.
And so what you'll see Nigel and we can follow up on that and clearly we'll have more about that when we get together in March on March 6 that you're going to see there is strong -- there'll continue to be strong incremental benefit that'll flow into 2014.
Research Division</strong> Fantastic.
And then just digging into PMT margins.
I just wondered what impact the Thomas Russell acquisition had due to accession accounting in the quarter.
And you also mentioned unfavorable price/raws.
You guys have done a great job of mitigating the raw material volatility particularly within the Resins business.
And I'm wondering has there been a change in the dynamic now where price/raws becomes more of an impact going forward? Well on Thomas Russell we had obviously favorability in terms of -- I cited that when I talked about the reported versus the organic sales contribution that Thomas Russell made.
Also Thomas Russell was actually accretive in the fourth quarter.
We actually had -- it made a positive contribution.
We had talked about that earlier just in terms of the excitement that we have for the transaction both in terms of tremendous complement that it gives to our current gas technology and gas positioning in UOP but also what we think we can do to continue to leverage its strength its marketplace strengths in terms of the financial performance.
So we saw that in the fourth quarter.
We're going to see a continued benefit obviously in 2013.
But it was margin rate...
It was margin rate...
Margin rate dilutive.
Yes about 40 basis points for the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay yes.
And the price/raws? Our price/raws -- well R&amp;C has been dealing with a decreasing spread throughout the year.
I don't see that spread getting worse during the course of this year but that's something that they just work on managing going forward and like you said it's become less of -- significantly less of an issue for us just in terms of how we manage the entire business.
So I don't see it creating any issues for us this year.
We'll take our next question from the site of Steven Winoker with Sanford Bernstein &amp; Co.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So just first question is the Defense and Space view of sequestration changing at -- or changed at all since the fall based on the activities over the last month? No.
I would say that we're staying in the same place we've always been.
And that planned conservatively there because you just don't know what those guys are going to do down there.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you commented on the energy orders push-out in BS&amp;D.
Can you give us a little more color on what you're seeing there in North America? And what your sense is for that changing? Yes.
It's good the -- that whole market has slowed down just because state municipal budgets are all struggling to get money right now to even investigate or look at anything.
Even though these end up being cost-free projects it still just causes everything to slow down.
And that's the phenomenon that we're dealing with and it's across the industry.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Transport for next year I mean given your comments on Friction historically I think hoping for breakeven by 2014 and all that are you still kind of hanging in there for that business unit over the next 6 months? As in what sense? LLC.
Research Division</strong> As in thinking about their ability to drive to the margin targets given the -- what's going on in Friction as well as volumes in Europe? Yes.
Yes we're -- we think they have a doable plan.
We're going to continue to fund the transformation that we've talked about.
And that's not the most pleasant of situations to deal with but we're going to stick with it.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just one last.
You mentioned -- the words you mentioned about 6x was -- in the presentation 2014 and beyond and that we're going to hear about 2014 and beyond in March.
Can you just give us a little clarity on are you suggesting that you might be thinking about more specific targets this year as opposed to next or you're just sort of speaking generally? Very generally.
The great unveiling will be in 2014 of the next 5-year plan.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
Great.
Well we'll keep asking.
Now that I'm relatively sure.
We'll go next to the site of Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> Can you just post us up where we actually finished on pension from a funded status both in percentages and dollars? And should we expect that you are done funding for really the foreseeable future? Yes we finished that at about 85% maybe a little less than that in terms of funded status for the year.
I think that's about...
$3.5 billion.
$3.5 billion in terms of underfunded balance.
And I'd say in terms of your -- the second part of your question in terms of are we done I think that's very much TBD.
As we've talked about before and as you're very familiar this is a very discount rate-sensitive phenomena.
The math is really driven significantly by discount rate and we talked about this a little bit in December.
If you just go back to the numbers in terms of discount rate that we had in 2009 2010 in the...
5.25% 5% to 5.25% range you're basically at a fully funded status.
So I think it's prudent for us to have done what we've done which is to done the prefunding over the course of '10 '11 and '12 to be in the position that we are now.
We've seen obviously continued historic lower rates.
We've had headwinds in terms of number of our major markets.
So I think now is an excellent time for us to shift that focus do what we're doing for 2013 in terms of capital and cash redeployment.
But we're going to have to say it's a wait-and-see attitude where hopefully what we're going to see is some improvement in terms of rates and that's going to really address most of this issue.
Meanwhile on the accounting side we're going to benefit here in 2013 as we've said from a little bit of pension income.
And we expect that'll probably continue into 2014 at about that same level given where rates are today.
Again that is also interest rate or discount-rate sensitive.
But I think for now we feel very comfortable with what we're doing the strategy that we've employed and it'll have to be wait and see going forward to make any kind of further statement in terms of beyond '13 or '14 in terms of funding.
Just to add to that we wanted to kind of stay in the sweet spot where at some point rates do go up markets will do better and you don't want to be in a position where all of a sudden you end up with a significantly overfunded plan.
By the same token you don't want to be in a position where you don't have critical mass in the pension so that when things do get better rates go up whatever you still stay underfunded.
So we've been trying to manage to that sweet spot and we think we're there.
And with just a little bit of help from rates and from market return then there should be no need to put money in the pension fund for a while.
One other quick thing Dave if I could add which is effective also with the beginning of this year we've lowered our rate of return assumption from 8%...
8% to 7%.
to 7 point -- 7.5% 7% which we also think is smart and again is consistent with our conservative approach on this issue.
So that's another element of it Jeff.
LLC</strong> Just backing into some rough numbers though it looks like if you earned your ROA you actually earn enough to pay your annual benefits payable and you hold this thing stable as long as discount rates don't go lower.
Right.
I think that's right.
Pretty much yes.
LLC</strong> Yes.
Just on the deal front.
Do you still see Intermec closing kind of in the May timeframe? And given that Thomas Russell is off to a strong start have you raised your sights a little bit there on accretion for 2013? I'd say with Intermec we'll see but that's kind of the way we're thinking about it now is sometime during the second quarter.
With Thomas Russell yes we're really pretty excited about what that can do for us in terms of what we can get on the order side.
So I think we can grow that pretty well.
LLC</strong> And then just one other quick one.
Just thinking about this contingency that's been created early in the year.
Should we think of any upside from dollar euro falling through kind of at the average Honeywell margin rate or is there some other complexity there to think about? Jeff the sensitivity is really for every $0.01 it's roughly $50 million in sales and about $7 million of operating income.
It's sort of our back-of-the-envelope math that will see this through.
We'll go next to the site of Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two questions Dave and Dave and Elena.
First you've done some very interesting drop-in and complementary acquisitions of late and you've talked about Thomas Russell a little bit.
Could you just elaborate a little bit and give us a little sense of how some of the other acquisitions have done lately in terms of complementing what you've done? EMS stands out as another example.
I'd say well it's not just the recent past.
If you take a look at the whole 10 years the acquisition process that we have really works.
And I mean I am hard pressed to think of one that's been bad that was of any consequence.
We had some smaller ones that didn't work out as well as we'd hope but nothing has been a big miss.
So EMS to your point stands out because there we ended up getting a $2.8 billion order that we hadn't even counted on as part of the valuation.
Thomas Russell has been excellent right from the start and we think the opportunity there is going to be even bigger.
We're excited about what we think Intermec can do to broaden our portfolio.
So I'm -- we've built a great safety products presence.
So I think this is one of those capabilities that we really have as a company.
It's not something that we do as one-off every 4 or 5 years dust off the book and figure out what you have to do.
It's more kind of in the psyche of the company.
It's just how we do things.
They've all worked out pretty well.
I can't think of one that isn't something to brag about.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I agree.
I just thought maybe there was something to add in terms of how it's 1 plus -- I don't want use the trite expression 1 plus 1 is getting 3.
But there's an element of what you've found is that as you've done some of these there's other market opportunities that have been uncovered.
And that's what the focus of the question was.
Well that part is true is that it's one of the nice things about kind of broadening our portfolio is that we end up seeing more new areas to be able to go into.
And EMS is a good example because that's really broaden the -- open the aperture for Aerospace as they think about what they do in that segment.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then the follow-up just to go on Aerospace.
You've had a number of notable wins some are announced and some are not.
How are you thinking Mr.
Anderson about the incremental BGA investments this year? And Howard are you talking specifically about some of the RD&amp;E investment? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Well as we've said we're looking for Aero to be basically flat on a RD&amp;E as a percent of sales.
We talked about that when we gave our December guidance.
It's a good question because I think one of the challenges we have overall at Aerospace is it's an opportunity-rich environment.
And despite us being selective and that's something that we've been very I think clear in terms of our direction with Aero it's something I think that's really served us very well and it's going to continue to serve us very well in the future.
Fact of the matter is it's a robust pipeline and we'll continue to manage that.
And we just -- I think that's one of the things that we've just gotten better at in terms of execution.
It also underscores as Dave talked about just our operating disciplines and just getting better in terms of managing innovation program management and delivery.
That's -- you're just going to see that translate we think into just even a stronger Aerospace in the future stronger Aerospace group for Honeywell in the future Howard.
And also it's consistent with what we continue to say in terms of the upside.
It'll translate into margin expansion and improvement for the group.
So the BGA opportunities are big.
As you said there's opportunities there that haven't been announced publicly announced or stated.
But we think that pipeline is very rich and we'll continue to manage it effectively.
Take our next question from the site of Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> You guys gave a backlog number last year.
I think this year you gave just the long-cycle backlog.
Last year I think it was $16.2 billion of which 74% was going to be shipped in 2012.
This year I think it's 15 point -- if you could just give me either the total backlog and then more importantly what you expect that long-cycle backlog how much of that is going to be shipped this year in '13? Steve the comparable number that you're looking for is $16.8 billion.
In terms of the comparable number the $15.8 billion that we quoted is really the long-cycle backlog that would ship within 24 months.
So there's...
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay that's very helpful.
On the PMT margins I think you said going forward 18% to 18.5%.
You guys did 18.7% this year but you guided up 0% to 20%.
So maybe if you could just clarify those comments.
Well I think when I was talking about that Steve I was talking about longer-term sustainable targets directionally.
One of the things that we've been asked a lot is can PMT sustain this kind of performance this kind of performance track record.
So what I was really referencing was the fact that we had confidence.
Another way of saying it is we have confidence in PMT stability to do that so the collection of the technologies that we possess the market positions the richness of the NPI the new product backlog in terms -- from research standpoint as well as what we just see in terms of the continued global macro trends and market opportunities.
And you take an example of that now the addition of Thomas Russell and our key position in natural gas liquids.
That's -- and you're -- we've acquired a company there that's basically got a U.S.
footprint with significant growth continued in the U.S.
but also now international expansion opportunities.
That's the type of thing I'm saying in terms of the sustainability is really what you should look to as opposed to a specific number.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then one last question just on the incremental pension tailwind.
How do we read you guys as having this kind of like hedge out there as opposed to you guys have been pretty smart in the past about taking some of this upside and offsetting it with restructuring? Do we read this as there's nothing you really worry about today so you let -- the more -- the likelihood of that just kind of flows through or that you're kind of out of opportunities for restructuring? Just a little curious as to why you're kind of not -- right away kind of calling that out and offs -- and saying at some point we're going to offset that with restructuring? Here's the way I would look at it is over the last 2 3 weeks let's say some of the economic news looks like it's gotten better but this is not the first time we see 2 or 3 weeks that look good...
That's right.
Followed by stuff that really doesn't look good at all.
And government is still not showing a capacity for dealing with its debt problems.
And we're all concerned that at some point this thing turns again and turns in the other direction.
We just think the smart thing to do now is to stay conservative and stay prepared.
There's -- I see very little downside to being prepared for the downside and that's the way you're just looking at it.
And we're saying "Okay better to have this in our pocket to be prepared to deal with that downside." If it doesn't happen well there is restructuring opportunity there is let-it-fall-through opportunity there may be other investments that we'll do.
Right now just because the news looks a little better the last couple of weeks but we just don't think this is a good time to declare economic victory.
And we'll take our final question from the line of John Inch from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Dave Anderson you had talked about in your December preview caprolactam headwinds.
And between the capro and the benzene price declines is there a -- just remind me is there a formula that you -- or that we can look at that says for every percentage change this is the impact on PMT? And then just kind of the corollary is what do you think of PMT margins sort of sequentially as the year progresses based on I think your previous comments regarding sort of spreads? I think Dave Cote you said you expected spreads to kind of remain not worse or whether in terms of the impact.
Well again that call it the benzene add or the formula that exist in terms of market pricing gives us a directional indicator.
It doesn't give us a precise.
You can't plug that in and determine what the outcome is in terms of the margin or the profitability for R&amp;C or for PMT.
Because we serve so many different markets and as you would expect John it gets kind of complicated.
But it is a macro indicator of the health of the overall -- that overall business space and it's an overall indicator for us in terms of -- from a planning standpoint directionally in terms of the profit performance that we expect out of that business and also an indicator of volumes.
Because as you would suspect when you get weaker demand some of that translates into weaker commodity pricing.
So that's one of the challenges that we have going forward.
On the other hand with PMT we expect to see continued good margin performance over the course of the year.
We are going to see a very good first quarter 2013.
And the reason is -- and we've been signaling that is we're going to have very strong catalyst deliveries in UOP that's -- that looks like it's absolutely on track.
So we're going to have exceptional performance there over the course of the year.
But we expect another good year in terms of overall PMT margins.
But like...
With a little less variability compared to what we saw at the end of 2012.
Right.
Looking forward to 2013.
Because John to your point we're going to have lapped the year-over-year impact of the R&amp;C caprolactam to benzene at our spread.
Or stated differently the second third and fourth quarters those are going to be more consistent...
More consistent right.
And more -- to one another in terms of the sequential margin rate that we'll see out of PMT.
There is a seasonal element to the fourth quarter margin in PMT which on average can be roughly 150 basis points of the decline driven by really fluorine products specifically.
But other than that as Dave mentioned we expect there to be much more consistency in terms of the margin rate performance in 2013.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Actually that is quite helpful.
I wasn't sure how you'd have the confidence if you were -- there was no predictive readthrough.
But that answers that very well.
787 I realize Aerospace is very diversified.
It's about flight hours.
But you guys have a pretty good content on that program.
Is there any discernible impact in the guide even if it's just minor or is it just not really that relevant? It's not going to have much of an impact.
I mean there are some -- there are obviously some sales from it in the year.
But even if they stopped producing which I find hard to believe that's manageable for us.
Research Division</strong> Then just last.
Dave Cote ACS has been a -- has been and is expected to continue to be an important source of productivity.
How are you thinking about productivity opportunities in emerging markets? And the reason I'm asking that point is that there are lots of reports of increasing automation proliferation because of rising wage costs in China and other places.
You guys as a company although you've closed the gap were behind I would say a few years ago in emerging markets.
You've closed the gap.
Is this still a period of time for Honeywell to be investing? Or are there opportunities to also perhaps drive productivity because of these -- just because market conditions are changing in the China and Indias of the world? Well I guess a couple of comments there.
First one is the opportunity for us to be able to expand outside the U.S.
is still significant.
While we have grown our percent of sales outside the U.S.
from 41% to 54% 75% of the world's GDP is outside the U.S.
so still a lot of room for us to grow.
When it comes to productivity we look at productivity in everything everywhere and in every country.
And we break it out into the 2 pieces that we've talked about before is material and organization effectiveness or OEF.
And we look at every business that way thinking about what's the smartest way to make both of those happen.
And that doesn't really change I'd say as a result of wage rates going up in China or going up in India.
Yes it's something that you manage but it's not so overwhelming that it requires drastic change in the company or exit stage right or enter stage left.
I mean nothing like that.
So very manageable and we'll continue to do that within that kind of framework looking at material and looking at labor and just keeping it as simple as that.
Research Division</strong> So basically on a net basis you're still in the build phase very much so it sounds like for the next few years in emerging markets versus a -- versus more of a cost phase if you want to look that up on that basis.
Well we always look at is growth and cost at the same time.
I've never been a believer that you just do one or the other.
So that's why we've got it teed up in the 5 initiatives the way we do.
So we're constantly looking at both.
None of this stuff has been a real surprise.
But we still see a lot of opportunity to grow and we still see a lot of opportunity to take out cost and just driving those big enablers of ours Velocity Product Development the Honeywell Operating System and Functional Transformation.
There's a lot of margin rate improvement and customer benefit from doing all 3 of those just a lot better than we do today.
All right Dave I'd like to hand it over to you for final comments.
Okay.
So while the economic times still remained difficult we are going to continue to focus on what we can control to deliver outperformance regardless of the economic conditions.
And at the end of the day you have to play with the economic cards that were dealt.
Until governments truly deal with their debt issues that's just the way it is.
We could wish it was different.
But the best thing we can do is just play conservatively assume that these great things aren't going to happen and stay very flexible in what we do in terms of our ability to respond.
So we're going to continue to evolve the company in everything we do.
And you know that word evolution is one that I use a lot because I think it's important for organizations for people for companies for processes because we want to stay flexible to be able to respond to changing conditions and we want to be able to improve on all dimensions.
A couple of weeks ago we had our annual meeting of our top 300 global leaders.
And I -- it's just fun to be able to tell you about the excitement that you can feel from the top 300 people in the world for Honeywell when it comes to what they know we can accomplish as a company and where we're going.
I mean the feeling was palpable.
It was the sort of thing that really pumps you up.
So as a Honeywell team we look forward to demonstrating that continued outperformance that results from all that excitement for all the great groundwork all the great seed planting that our guys have been doing for a lot of years.
Thanks for listening.
Thank you.
This does concludes today's teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Good day everyone ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Honeywell's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I'd now like to introduce your host for today's conference Elena Doom Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you Leo and good morning.
Here with me today are Chairman and CEO Dave Cote; and Senior Vice President and CFO Dave Anderson.
Today's call and webcast including any non-GAAP reconciliations are available on our website at honeywell.com/investor.
Note that elements of today's presentation do contain forward-looking statements that are based on our best view of the world and of our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change and we would ask that you interpret them in that light.
We do identify the principal risks and uncertainties that affect our performance in our Form 10-K and other SEC filings.
This morning we will review our financial results for the first quarter share with you our outlook for the second quarter and the remainder of the year and finally we'll leave time for your questions.
So with that I'll turn the call over to Dave Cote.
Thanks Elena.
Good morning everyone.
A very good start to 2013.
EPS in the quarter was $1.16 and thats normalizing for tax that came in a penny above the high end of our guidance range and up 12% driven by the strong margin performance across the businesses.
And we accomplished this in a slow growth macro environment that was really coupled with some particularly challenging prior year comps.
And I think there is a nice reinforcement of our conservative sales planning process and the results you can get from that.
Sales of $9.3 billion were aligned with guidance and like we talked about during investor day it demonstrates the importance of a balanced portfolio.
Now I say that because while we saw our headwinds from lower defense spending lower European auto production and generally challenging comps we also saw modest signs of improvement at several of our key short cycle ECS businesses and across another quarter from EOP not just in sales but in what the future is for sale.
Similar to prior quarters EPS growth was driven by strong margin expansion.
We were up 100 basis points to 16.2% and this was driven by cost management or productivity.
That focus on material cost and remaining conservative in our census planning.
This discipline along with our considerable amount of seed planting helped us to deliver these results while maintaining our investments for the future.
Now as a result of that success we are raising our full year pro forma EPS guidance by a nickel on the low end making our new range $4.80 to $4.95 up 7% to 11% versus prior year.
This reflects our strong first quarter performance as well as our confidence in our ability to drive continued margin expansion.
However also as weve been saying since October we want to ensure were remaining balanced in our planning and as a result were maintaining a range that incorporates possible risks and opportunities.
Were achieving these results while continuing our investments in the future or that seed planting that you always hear us talking about.
In the quarter we proactively funded over $30 million of new restructuring projects building on a healthy pipeline of projects as weve talked about in the past.
This is more than we originally expected which again speaks to the strength of our first quarter results.
We also continue to invest in stuff thats really just terrific when it comes to new products and technologies and that are winning with our customers.
As an example Honeywell SmartPath was selected by the Airport Authority of India or AAI to be part of a pilot project for satellite based precision approach and landings at the Chennai International Airport.
As you know airport congestion remains a major issue globally and SmartPath will support this increasing demand by reducing delays lowering operations costs for airlines and increasing traffic throughput.
Think of it as like the Honeywell operating system for an airport so same concept.
We also saw a number of new wins from UOP building on our already record backlog levels and setting them up for a multiyear cycle of continued up performance.
For example UOP announced its 12<sup>th</sup> all fixed project win since the beginning of 2011 driven by the renaissance in petrochemical investments spurred by low natural gas prices.
Now if we take a step back for a moment we see ourselves in what continues to be a slow growth microenvironment.
We do see some reasons to be optimistic on the horizon but we also see plenty of reasons to continue to remain cautious.
For example U.S and European sales were as expected in the quarter.
However China saw a weak start to the year reflecting a government austerity and a concerted attempt to contain growth.
That being said the majority of our businesses there are quite healthy.
Inventory levels are returning to normal and order rates are improving particularly in our long cycle businesses signaling our modest recovery over the remainder of the year.
As weve said before taking a conservative approach to topline planning helps ensure we deliver the results youve come to expect.
You can expect well be ready to capitalize on the opportunity if and when things do pick up.
In the meantime well keep following the playbook youve come to expect from us.
Seed planting for future growth including investing in our businesses launching a bunch of new products global expansion and driving productivity through our key enablers so we can deliver this year next year and beyond that.
So with that Ill turn it over to Dave.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Thanks for your participation.
Lets go to slide entitled 1-2 2013 results.
Ill just take you through the summary highlights.
Again sales of $9.3 billion were approximately flat year over year on a reported basis and in line with our prior guidance down about 1% on an organic basis.
So adjusting for acquisitions and adjusting for currency.
As expected challenging comps in aerospace and also in transportation systems where headwinds in the quarter although we expect these comps to get easier in the second half of the year.
Well talk about that a little bit more.
Segment profit for the quarter was up 7%.
Segment margins expanded as Dave said 100 basis points to 16.2% representing really exceptional sales conversion in the quarter.
We saw margin expansion in three of the four SPGs and were going to take you through that in just a moment.
But PMT youll note in particular benefited from a strong UOP quarter as we expected.
Global line largely those numbers largely as anticipated and consistent with our prior guidance.
You recall the pension favorability we have this year which was essentially redeployed in the quarter to fund smart repositioning projects which will help continue to drive productivity in a slow growth environment.
The first quarter effective tax rate at 23.1% planned against the planned 26.5% for the full year.
The lower tax rate was driven by the passage of the U.S.
tax extenders earlier this year and that came just late enough to not be a 2012 benefit and early enough to be a first quarter 2013 benefit.
Thats going to correct and will be offset later in the year and we are still planning the 26.5% for the full year.
So EPS of $1.21 reported was up 16% after normalizing of the 26.5% ETR EPS would have been $1.16 up 12% and above the high end of the guidance driven by strong segment margin expansion in the quarter.
And finally free cash flow for the quarter $327 million was up 9% versus prior year and right on track to our full year guidance.
Let's go through each of the businesses in turn start with slide number five with aerospace.
Sales for aero down 1% in the first quarter again as expected.
U.S.
defense and space program wrap down as well as tough prior year comps in the commercial business both contributed to a challenging top line sales quarter for aerospace.
Commercial OE sales were up 1% driven by 9% growth in air transport in regional as a result the continued strong OE build rate.
BGA OE on the other hand was down primarily driven by backlog [brought] down in the first quarter of 2012.
Commercial aftermarket sales were down 3% versus prior year a little color on that to help you understand what we are seeing today.
It makes a lot of sense to look back at where we were this time last year.
You recall in the first quarter of 2012 Honeywell commercial aftermarket sales were actually up 16% which at that time was our eighth straight quarter also of double-digit spares increases.
Of course we benefitted from strong win rates in airline selectables due aircraft spares provisioning favorable platform mix as well as higher than normal engine maintenance events and also some discretionary [end use] sales.
The key point is obviously lapping a very strong period last year.
Fast forward to today and as we foreshadowed a year ago the aftermarket growth has continued to moderate and as expected this quarter we experienced decline in spares volumes mostly as a result of the strong performance we had last year but also as a result of the airline buyer behavior.
However the flight hours continue to be positive and we feel confident we will see aftermarket growth in the remainder of this year.
Defense and space sales were down 1%.
U.S.
sales were unfavorably impacted by the anticipated program wrap downs and these were partially offset by good growth in the international market.
Looking at segment profit for aerospace you can see margins up 80 basis points to a robust 18.9% in the quarter largely driven by commercial excellence and also continued productivity net of inflation including the absence of the prior year unfavorable you will recall of the Hawker bankruptcy.
Partially offset by lower commercial and aftermarket volume.
So with those highlights for aerospace let's go to slide six automation and control solutions.
So ACS sales were roughly flat for the quarter on both a reported and organic basis.
Regionally Europe was a little better than we expected back in January while the U.S.
and Asia were a little bit worse.
Let's just take a little bit closer look at the ACS businesses.
For ESS energy safety and security sales were up 2% driven by good growth in ECC as a result of a more normal winter heating season and also continued strong residential market condition and new product introductions in security products.
Process solutions sales were down 2% driven by challenging comps.
It's really as a result of several large projects which have been steadily ramping down over the course of the prior year and into the first quarter of this year.
Of the good news here for process solutions is that project pipeline remains very strong the backlog is converting at a higher margin and it's partially as a result of being more selective in what we bid as well as the organizational improvements we have made in the last year.
In fact HPS margins were up strongly in the quarter.
So a positive margin story for HPS and the contribution to ACS as a whole.
For BSD Building Solutions and Distribution sales were down 2% driven by several large project completions in 2012 coupled with a remaining U.S energy retrofit market partially offset by continued growth in our Americas distribution business.
Now segment margin for ACS expanded 80 basis points to 13.8% in the quarter the performance was driven again by commercial excellence by operational improvements and also by continued cost management and of course the benefit of previously completed restructuring actions which of course are continuing to flow through and pay dividends.
Lets go now to slide 7 PMT and just the highlights for Performance Materials and Technologies.
Now UOP sales were up 34% reported 10% organic in the quarter primarily driven by increased petrochemical catalyst shipments and also equipment sales growth.
UOP also continued to build backlog now approximately $2.9 billion reflecting an organic increase on both a year over year as well as on a sequential basis.
On the other hand Advanced Materials was pretty soft in the quarter largely as expected.
Sales were down 9% versus prior year driven by lower volumes in Advanced Materials as a result of planned plant outages in both resins and chemicals as well as in flooring products.
Those outages had roughly a 6% negative impact on sales for the quarter.
We will not expect these to have a significant impact on sales importantly for the remainder of the year.
Additionally while we continue to see price rise pressure in resins and chemicals the in markets there remain relatively stable and we exited the quarter with a robust order book supporting continued future growth outlook.
The segment margin for PMT was 21.8% representing an increase of 200 basis points versus last year.
again the strength of UOP sales in addition to favorable price net of inflation partially offset by lower volume in Advanced Materials as a result of the plant outages that I referenced and also the continued investments that we make for growth in PMT.
So now to slide 8 transportation systems.
TS the sales decline was 4% in the quarter year over year improvement over the fourth quarter performance.
We continue to see European light vehicle production decline for approximately 10% as auto sales remain depressed across most of Europe including now France Germany and Spain.
TS however has had the benefit of new launches partially offsetting these declines and with higher turbo gas penetration in both North America as well as in China and while we expect a difficult environment in Europe to persist the comps of course are going to get easier in the second half of the year.
Segment margins for TS were down 50 basis points driven by the lower sales and also the investments were making to improve friction materials partially offset by productivity actions.
Overall TS continues to execute well in a difficult microenvironment its in illustrated by maintaining margins at a solid level despite western EU light vehicle sales at 17 year lows is driven really this productivity by continued efficiency improvements and also flexibility.
Lets now with that review of the businesses for the first quarter go to slide 9 and give you the brief highlights for our outlook for the second quarter.
Again for the second quarter were expecting modest sales growth roughly flat up 2% in the $9.5 billion to $9.7 billion range.
EPS is expected to be in the range of $1.18 to $1.23 up 4% to 9% when normalizing for the tax rate in both years.
Lets take a look then at each of the businesses just the highlights of the revenue outlook for each of the businesses in the second quarter.
Aerospace were expecting sales to be roughly flat with modest growth in commercial partially offset by mid-single digit decline in Defense and Space.
We continue to monitor after market activity in relation to global flying hours and airline inventory levels and well see spares comps improve as we move through the remainder of the year.
For ACS in the second quarter we think thats going to play out much like the first with sales flat up 2% driven by a modest organic improvement in ESS and the timing of Intermec which is expected to close by the end of June.
This was partially offset by continued slowness in both HPS and BSD.
We anticipate continued strong conversion in ACS with margins up year-over-year despite the potentially dilutive impact of Intermec in the quarter.
And as a reminder ACS margins for the year are estimated to be approximately 14.5% including 40 basis points of Intermec related dilution reflecting the acceleration we have seen in margin expansion here in the last couple of years.
PMT for the second quarter we are expecting sales to be up 12% to 15% which would equate to mid-single digit growth organically.
UOP is expected to have another strong sales quarter driven by the Thomas Russell acquisition and also higher equipment sales.
Again as a reminder UOP saw very strong licensing revenues in the second quarter of 2012 which are not expected to repeat at those levels this year.
And as a result we expect PMT margins in the second quarter to be lower both sequentially as well as year-over-year.
Finally in transportation systems we are expecting sales to be flat to down slightly.
EU light vehicle production is expected to be down approximately mid-single digits with turbo volumes approximately flat sequentially.
There is a possibility we could see low single digit volume growth which would be terrific.
And this is reflected at the high end of the range the revenue range for TS in the second quarter.
So as you can see very good performance despite a slow growth macro environment recorded as Dave said by a strong focus on driving productivity and of course the balanced portfolio which gives us confidence in this outlook.
And now before going to the full year I just want to take a few minutes to just say a few words and give you an update on NARCO.
So on slide number ten as we discussed in our December outlook call and this is really the highlights of what we discussed but just to really make sure that we are reminding you of this the long awaited NARCO trust formation is happening.
And specifically the NARCO bankruptcy plan is expected to be effective around April 30.
And thus we think it's likely the trust will be established in the second quarter which means we will start seeing some trust formation cash outflows this quarter.
A couple of things we would like to take a moment to point out.
First we continue to estimate the 2013 cash outflows to be in the range of $200 million to $300 million pretax or $120 million to $170 million which is shown on this slide after tax.
The outflows in 2014 are also expected to be roughly in that range $175 million to $225 million net of tax and net of insurance recoveries.
And as you can see 2013 as well as '14 in the left hand side of the chart slide ten reflect the high watermark for cash outflows as a significant portion of the early outflows are carryover of preexisting claims yet to be paid.
Now beyond 2013 and '14 we expect the cash outflows to reduce and stabilize subject to the annual payment cap on new claims of $140 million pretax or approximately $60 million again net of taxes and insurance receipts.
Now at this point we feel we are adequately reserved with over $1 billion remaining for NARCO specifically.
So no P&amp;L impact envisioned for some time.
It's going to take several years of experience operating the trust to discern certain trends and claims activity and then reevaluate reserve levels.
So key takeaway number one is no change to the cash or earnings guidance for 2013 for this year.
Key takeaway number two is this level of funding is very manageable it will not impact our ability to assertively and positively redeploy cash to build value in other areas.
We have been smart in how we have negotiated the trust terms specifically with Honeywell's level of engagement in trust operating procedures and audit rights over the claims payment processes in addition to the ongoing cap on new claims and you saw that in terms of that post 2014 presentation all of which serve to differentiate the NARCO Trust from any other.
Of course well continue to update you on this as events unfold.
So lets now turn to slide 11 and take a minute on the full 2013 guidance summary.
As you can see some small puts and takes based on what weve discussed today but very much in line with your expectation.
Sales expected to be up 3% to 4% 1% to 2% on an organic basis.
Were still assuming a year rate of 1.25 at the midpoint which we believe remains a prudent assumption in light of the volatility weve all been experiencing.
Now the revenue forecast for the full year is down slightly from our previous expectations.
Really has to do with the assumption regarding the timing of the Intermec close.
Previously we were assuming June 1.
Now were assuming June 30.
Weve incorporated the full impact obviously of sequestration.
And then obviously just the continued outlook for slower growth in the macro economy with increased segment margins importantly for the full year 10 basis points on both the low and the high end.
These increases reflect our strong first quarter performance and our continued confidence in driving margin expansion through our enablers and our ongoing proactive funding of repositioning.
The full year tax rate is still expected to be 26.5% which is consistent with prior years.
So as I mentioned earlier we would expect the first quarter tax favorability to be offset in the second half of the year.
So taking into account these items were raising our full year EPS guidance at the low end by a nickel resulting in a new range of $4.80 to $4.95 up 7% to 11% versus 2012.
And as you can see were still expecting around $3.7 billion of free cash flow so no change there.
And as Dave said earlier we believe a very balanced outlook for the year but taking into account the good start that we saw in the first quarter.
So with that lets go to slide 12 just a brief wrap up before we turn it over to Elena and to you for Q&amp;A.
the first quarter obviously reflected another strong quarter for Honeywell and like most top performing companies we continued to set high expectations and we continued to deliver.
We remain confident in our 2013 outlook.
We continue to plan for growth in a low growth environment with mix orders trend by business and region which is to say were not counting on a big second half recovery to deliver strong results.
Were focused on executing our proven playbook driving sustainable operating leverage progress on key productivity initiatives in addition continuing to fund smart new restructuring projects that will yield incremental savings in 2013 and 2014.
And finally weve planted a lot of seeds for the future with a strong portfolio aligned to favorable macro trends.
These are all intact.
Industrial reinvestment infrastructure expansion and renewal continued urbanization combined with a growing middle global middle class.
These trends are going to continue to build and were going to continue to leverage those.
Weve got the right people.
Were developing the right products for the right market at the right value to capitalize on these trends.
So we look forward to global growth returning to more normal levels but were not beholden to it.
Were going to keep doing what we always do executing on our business strategies continuing to evolve with the company and as Dave said seed planting for a strong future.
So with that Elena lets go to you and to the group for Q&amp;A.
Well now open the line for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from Scott Davis with Barclays.
Good numbers obviously and thanks for not disappointing like some of the other large cap names have here.
It makes our lives a little easier.
But...
Scott I just wanted to note that we broke your paradigm about lackluster results today.
Well you did but I still got another 24 that arent so great either so.
As you might imagine I read that last night and said I can't wait to (inaudible) that one up tomorrow.
Thats all right.
Did you (inaudible) your stuff? Thats good.
Somebody does.
So look the only thing I am going to pick on then just this kind of flattish free cash flow year-over-year and obviously you are going to spend some capital? But it begs the question of given just how weak the macro the overall macro is coming in in the quarter and your outlook which I dont think indicates much of a recovery from here.
I mean why do you think you need to make substantial capital investments from here? Well if we take a look at where the increase is coming from on the CapEx side it's really for orders that we already have in PMT.
And this is growth thats going to happen.
We have got the new molecules we have landed the new orders in UOP and we got to be able to ship the stuff.
And it's as simple as that.
And thats where the increase is primarily coming from.
This is a good thing not a bad thing.
Sure.
But isnt there a potential to have a decrease in some of the areas just given that you probably dont need to spend much capital at all for flattish type growth? I would say it's flattish for this year thats the way we are going to think about it.
But when we are making these kind of investments we need to be looking further out than that.
And I'd say we are pretty rigorous about how do we think about CapEx and where do we put the money.
And any of the spending we are doing I'd say is more than judicious when it comes to the returns that we are going to get from it.
And as I said the big increase is really coming out of PMT where we already have the orders in hand and we have to be able to support it.
Yeah.
No I totally understand that part of it.
Okay.
And then just as a follow up when you think about the amount of cash you have in Europe and other areas around the world is there any flexibility in how you fund the NARCO trust and I also assume that some of this CapEx you are spending is going to be overseas money as well.
The PMT a fair amount of that is U.S.
but anything that kind of gives you some flexibility on utilizing overseas cash instead of having to use your U.S.
base? Scott this is Dave.
You know we just continue to be smart in terms of our tax and treasury planning in terms of managing our cash balances.
Again the guidance that we gave you at the beginning of the year all of our communications in terms of both cash and coverage ratios and everything else assumed this outflow.
So we just continue to be smart on that continue to be very smart in terms as I said our tax and treasury planning.
Yeah it's doesnt totally answer it.
I guess my question is can you use some of that European cash to fund NARCO or it has to be U.S.
dollars? Specifically those need to be U.S.
dollars.
Okay.
I figured as much.
I just wanted to make sure.
Okay thanks and congrats guys.
I will let you move on.
We will move next to Peter Arment with Sterne Agee.
Agee</strong> Question on aerospace aftermarket.
Just in general I know you are not planning for a stronger second half kind of pick up in the global economy but you are expecting an improvement on the commercial aftermarket.
Is it -- you know as we transition is it just easier comps or what kind of gives you the confidence when you are talking about what you are seeing for airline inventory levels.
First I want to state we are not counting on much Peter.
We have tried to do that as a company and we lowered our sales sites even further in just about every business saying we got to make sure that we are playing conservatively.
So we are really not counting on much.
Yeah.
I'll just maybe piggyback on Dave's comment just add a little to it.
We are looking at now up low to mid-single digits in the commercial aftermarket for 2013.
We think thats kind of a reasonable range given the first quarter performance and also just looking at the pattern of global flying hours and our patterns for sales for last year.
So the comps as we said earlier and as you know become much easier in the second half.
So I think that is a good way to think and to plan going forward.
You know some of the specifics on that we continue to see very good R&amp;O on both BGA as well as on the ATR side of it.
And thats really two thirds of the make up in aftermarket.
Yeah absolutely.
Thats a very good point Elena.
Thats two thirds of the makeup of the revenues of the aerospace aftermarket.
So were continuing to see that being relatively good.
And also our anticipation for the spare side of BGA is pretty good.
Yeah.
RMUs are continuing to be very strong.
And our RMUs are continuing to be very strong.
So I think theres a lot of reasons why we think this low to mid-single digits.
But that has tempered from where we started the year.
Agee</strong> Thats helpful.
And just maybe speaking in general about the region is it similar regionally around the globe? It sounds like just in general from your report that Europe feels a little less bad and Asia is a little softer.
Is that consistent also like what youre seeing? Yes.
Well move next to the side of Stephen Tusa of JP Morgan.
I think Scott took care of all the brown nosing for todays call.
So Ill skip that part.
We cant get enough.
So just on the short cycle trends its a little bit all over the map here.
Danaher talked about U.S being a little bit weaker.
G was down 17% in Europe and it fell off a cliff in March.
Maybe if you could just talk about your year your highest frequency economic indicators the businesses you watch for that and maybe just talk about those trends anything interesting that happened in March and into early April here.
Sure.
I would say when it came to March things actually started to look a little tougher than they had before.
Interestingly in the first couple of weeks of April things look a little bit better than they did before but theres nothing here and theres a business we do watch called Basic Switches that we pay attention to something that portends to our future.
But at the end of the day I wouldnt say theres anything thats caused any of use to say okay the trend has begun in one direction or the other.
Theres just this order equivocation if you will where you just say okay I still dont know enough one direction or the other to make a permanent or lets say more long lasting call.
Thats why were going to stay conservative.
Id like to think that this is the trend but after a couple of weeks of things being slightly better Im certainly not ready to declare.
Can you just remind us also on these moves in commodity prices with oil going down and natural gas coming back up how that impacts PMT and how you see that is there any impact to the net out? And also I guess Advanced Materials as well the price dynamic there any risks? I dont see any risks from -- first of all gas pricing going up is a good phenomenon for a PMT because now you have more people willing to look for the stuff and pump it because thats when its only 253 box thats filled they just dont make sense.
And when you get up to 450 well theres a lot of stuff that makes more sense than it did before and well encourage that dynamic.
I like it.
If we take a look at oil whether its $80 or $100 that is worth looking for more.
So I dont see either of those trends being any hard movement around those numbers to be a problem for us.
So the pipeline the quotation and opportunity pipeline ULT is still robust no matter whats going on here? No.
it looks very good and Id say all the seed planting that we did there since we acquired it and all that additional Horizons re-spending and becoming more global in our outreach is all stuff that just continues to play out very well for us.
As well as the strength of their position in the petrochemical industry has really reflected Dave in how they really outperformed peers in the first quarter.
One last quick one.
A lot of these chemical companies have been getting hit recently and I guess what is the risk that some of these projects get pushed even further? Are you seeing any of that? I cant say were feeling anything like that.
The stuff that were looking at doing and we were investing really has nothing to do with commodity trends or anything like that.
Its more the world needs energy.
The world is going to continue to need energy.
The world needs the new HFOs that we have invented.
Thats where the investments are going and thats where the backlog is built.
And I have tough time seeing that really changing.
It's always possible but with any kind of minimal global economic growth those trends continue.
We will move next to the site of Jeff Sprague of Vertical Research.
Just a few things.
Could you just elaborate a little bit more on what you are seeing in Europe overall.
I mean your comments there sound a little bit better actually a lot better than most people that we are hearing.
Can you put your finger on some particular share gain or something going on with end markets your particular end markets? Let's say if we take a look at the overall macros we are not saying things are better there.
And based on how things are going we would still forecast and plan for 0% GDP growth over the next three years.
It's just the way we are going to continue to think about and plan for it because there is nothing to indicate that they are ever going to have just a bang up quarter or year.
So we are going to keep thinking about it that way.
Part of what I think we are seeing is last year we took -- orders trends were really pretty negative in Europe.
We were down pretty much double-digit all year along.
It's just one of those things that we had to manage.
We got our cost structure in line which helped.
But then on the orders side there is a bit of a rebound that you get from the (inaudible) just being down so much and managing your way through that.
So I am not ready to declare victory on anything.
And I would say in terms of products ACS did much better in Europe overall.
But again I think some of that is driven by just being down so much last year and you get some of the we can call it a dead cat bounce I think it's better than that.
But at the end of the day it's not an indicator that Europe is turning around in my view.
I think Jeff just to add quickly what Dave said is it really it continues to be an inconsistent orders pattern.
Overall slight negative organically that we have in terms of growth in the first quarter and Europe is really again [attributed] just to the balance of the portfolio.
Both long and short....
Long and short cycle we see that balance working.
And so it's not as we have sort of the theme if anything we are really striking here again today is we are not counting on any kind of improvement.
And in fact what we are really counting on is just the continued opportunity to improve our cost structure our productivity.
Thats some of the repositioning that we have funded here in the first quarter.
Yeah actually on that point I mean the restructuring size isnt huge but very attractive payback kind of surprises me a little bit given how far along ostensibly you guys are on restructuring.
How are you finding such big payback projects and is there more of that that may happen over the course of '13.
Well I would go back to the process initiatives that we always talk about.
The Velocity Product Development the Honeywell Operating System Functional Transformation.
The evolution of that is going to continue for a long time to come.
And as long as we continue to progress on that path I would like to think there are always going to be high returns projects that are going to come available to us.
And I dont see that opportunity declining in the future.
There is going to be good payback projects for us for a long time to come.
Right.
And then just maybe one final one and I will pass it on.
The flip side of Scott's concern about the weak economy and spending CapEx I mean maybe there is some vulnerable deal targets out there people getting a little bit jumpier about their station in life.
Are you seeing any pickup in your M&amp;A pipeline just the funnel itself or the likelihood that things maybe happen more actively over the course of the next six to 12 months? Well it's always tough to predict Jeff.
As we said before we always maintain just a very big active pipeline.
We conduct reviews with the businesses about every six weeks where we go through what are the possibilities and how are things looking and what could be new or different.
I can't say that we have noticed any big change in any of that.
But again we are not looking for any big changes.
We have tried to really make this a very methodical un-cyclical process.
Well move next to the site of Steve Winoker of Sanford C.
Bernstein.
Ive got to tell you after Steve's reaction to Scott's comment Ive just got to say Im in the camp of nice quarter and there should be a few apples on your desk in Morristown.
I look forward to it.
Now just a couple of things.
First the other side of the prior question on input costs or on the commodities is what was the specific input cost impact on Advanced Materials this quarter that is a benefit from that? Was it broader also across the portfolio? Steve And you would expect that to continue? Who knows? Who can predict the commodities cost? I have got to overall to bolster Elena's point there tends to be more of a capital question than anything else because the rest of the business doesnt really get affected much by that.
All right.
But its in your plan? Youre planning for that continuity? We always plan conservatively I can promise you that.
Whether its sales cost price spreads we try to be conservative because you just never know.
Just a higher level again so here we have another quarter with limited overall volume growth margins are progressing forward youre getting at that with the prior question as well but as we start again thinking about longer term and assuming that you do not get or if your topline continues to be weak and in fact we don't get the pickup and all of that and you think about how much margin or how long you can sustain the cost and efficiency improvements at least just thinking about the next few quarters how are you currently thinking about that? I'm sorry Steve.
How are we thinking about what exactly? How much margin expansion you get in the absence of any volume growth? Well as you know we're believers that margin expansion is a fundamental based on how good your processes are and your process improvement.
This is where I'm going to come back again the Honeywell operating system velocity product development functional transformation and our overall margin rate versus some of our peers.
When you look at it that way you say okay there's still lot of upside here.
I prefer not to do it this way for the next five years.
I'd like to think that there's some economic growth sales growth in there at some point but at the end of the day weve still got a lot of room to progress just becoming more efficient every year.
But at least not going negative right? You can at least maintain it? Well I don't think going negative.
Steve you can see that in our forward guidance.
You can see it in our 2013 numbers what we have as weve communicated at Investor Day for 2014.
And again as Dave said that's against the backdrop of the  modest to low revenue growth depending upon the business.
You're going to see some lumpiness quarter-to-quarter.
For example we had just very very terrific as expected UOP margin contribution in PMT this quarter.
PMT as I indicated in my comments earlier is going to benefit from again revenue growth from UOP in the second quarter but it's not going to have the same favorable mix that it had in the second quarter of 2012 where we had very strong licensing revenues and obviously very high -- and conversion.
We also have Intermec that's going to happen.
It's going to dilute the margins.
So there's things that influence it but the overall general trend will continue to be positive.
Great.
Just finally a little bit more color about how Defense &amp; Space is currently thinking about sequestration playing out and the impact on their model versus where they've been over the last nine months? The smart call is to just assume that it continues and that's the way we're going to keep thinking about it.
This is not a time to be bullish.
We are better off staying conservative and if they change the spend profile in defense great.
If they dont we are fully prepared.
And we have added additional sequestration impact in our full year revenue forecast.
Thats one of the key reasons as we said on a full year basis we were bringing our total revenues down a little bit partly as a result of now reflecting that full sequestration.
And we move next to the site of Howard Rubel of Jefferies.
A couple of quick items Dave.
First when you talked about HPS large projects ramp down could you kind of characterize the geography and what you are doing to see maybe talk about stabilization of the business or how the patterns sort of flow as you look out over the next 12 to 18 months? Howard I would say one of the things that we are doing in process solutions and thats important is the guys are doing a very good job of going after the installs that we won.
So think of it as the same sort of thing that we talked about in aerospace of being selective about the platforms that you decide to go for.
Our process solutions guys have been doing the same thing and as a result of that we are seeing much better margin rates in the backlog then what we saw before.
As we look around the world I would say it's pretty well mixed in terms of where you see the big projects.
But in general it's got more of a focus on high growth regions if you will and what you are going to see in developed markets.
And then just as a follow up.
On new products you talk about a lot of things playing about the way you want.
Are there one of two things you would like to call out where as you have developed new products across the portfolio where things are playing our maybe a little bit better and they can accelerate as you look forward? Well I could tell you some of the stuff that I am pretty pumped about.
We just went to the ISC West show for security and unveiled three or four really pretty cool now products for both on the video side and the overall integrated systems side.
And if any of you were in Times Square yesterday and happened to look up at the Reuters board you would have seen an earned media in other words we didnt pay a thing for it consistent with our kind of tight watch spending.
But you saw our new thermostat our new Wi-Fi thermostat put you there by PR Newswire as being the greatest thing since slice spread.
They might not have put it that way but that was certainly the message.
So yeah I am pretty excited about all that stuff.
ACS has some really great new products already out there and as you might imagine a lot more good stuff to come.
We will move next to the site of John Inch with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Just on the point of sequestration.
Do we think assuming that nothing changes now this down 5% is about the new norm for that business which obviously can be managed but is that run rate or is this something about the second quarter that makes that a little bit worse? I think it's just really timing in large parts John of some of the projects phase outs wind downs.
We had a little more favorability in D&amp;S in the first quarter and we will have a little less favorability a little more decline in the second quarter.
So it's really just timing there.
And then the other thing as we indicated is just the continued progress and performance that that businesses leadership is making in offsetting U.S.
DoD budget declines just in terms of pursuing opportunities elsewhere.
So thats coming through the numbers as well.
So basically I would say.....
Yeah particularly international.
Exactly.
But for the full year it's a modest tweak down from roughly 3% previously guided down for D&amp;S to now more like 4% down.
And does that imply that the U.S.
piece of the defense and space is down more but you are making it up internationally is that part of the mix or? Yeah.
Okay.
All right.
So that makes sense.
What about turbo? This is prospectively the worst European auto build quarter.
What is the  what do you think the runway is for turbo and particularly on a growth rate basis given the easier compares as you exit the year because youve got all these new platform wins.
That business should be ramping up I would think pretty nicely heading into the second half no? I would say there's that opportunity but I'm certainly not going to predict what the Euro auto industry build is going to be.
We're going to stay conservative even with what we get some kind of EDI global insight forecast.
And I certainly hope what you're saying is correct and we do believe that there is that strong possibility.
But we're going to continue to be careful.
Well let me ask it this way.
Does new platform wins in Turbo based on what you've been able to achieve over the past couple of years does that materially impact growth rate this year? Or is it more of a tailwind into next year? Both.
We certainly see the impact this year.
We saw it even this quarter where the Euro auto industry was down about 10% and we were down about 4% largely because of the impact of new launches.
That's why with any kind of just market stabilization never mind growth we end up in a really great place.
I would add that the new launches in the second half are also expected to accelerate over the levels that we saw in the first quarter and what we'll see in the second quarter.
As we indicated I think we actually have a shot and that's going to work here actually having a volume increase in Turbo in the second quarter at the high end of our range and launches together with some other favorable macros commercial vehicle better comps all of those should support the improved performance John over the course of 2013.
And some modest low-single digit growth in the second half.
Yeah.
Was this contingent on some a framework of European auto build? I can't remember if you said that this is based on European auto build this year doing X? Yeah.
We're assuming that light vehicle production is down low to mid-single digits for the year in Europe.
And then just lastly Dave Anderson I thought we historically have been talking about several hundred million of NARCO Trust funding.
Why is that -- how have you been able to possibly accomplish this in such a lower rate? Is that because you had prefunded it before and it really still is that number? Or maybe a little more color on the NARCO and why now and it seems like you've done a better job of being able to fund this.
Just what happened here? Well I think what we're seeing now is we're seeing a calendarization if you will the phasing of the anticipated claims payment for those that have not been processed and executed since the beginning of the stay that goes back to 2002.
So I think number one we have a better read on what the timing of that could be John that claims processing through the trust.
And I think number two what we're showing here is a little precise numbers given the insurance recoveries and also tax affecting those cash outflows.
So it's a combination of those and then something that's consistent obviously is the future period look in terms of the enforcement of the caps 2015 and beyond but again including and what've shared with you today the after insurance recovery and after-tax impacts to Honeywell.
So I think it's really just those a combination of those updates and refinements.
Im sorry the reason this is costing so much less today is why because of actuarial precision or something? No.
I dont think its costing less.
I think what were doing is we have the payments for claims that if you will catch up the historic claims processing spread over two years 2013 and 2014 as well as 2013 includes trust formation funding trust formation spending thats about $45 million after tax.
We have those now calculated we think more accurately or a little more precisely is probably the best way of saying it.
Its still very much estimates in terms of how this is going to play out and were showing all those numbers to you on an after insurance recovery after-tax basis.
What you may be recalling is some communications that weve made on pretax dollars and some of those communications probably also did not factor in some of the direct insurance recoveries.
So what weve done is sharpened the pencil and our communication today to show what really the net impact and our best judgment of the timing of those outflows.
Leo we have time for just one more question.
We will move next to Deane Dray Citi Research.
Your line is open.
Thank you good morning everyone.
Yeah I hope you like the amount of cabbage this quarter.
You know I think you have done some good harvesting there.
So I can also say I was at that ISC West Trade Show in Las Vegas and did see a number of those new products.
Especially the integrated security systems that combine security HVAC controls and energy savings.
And there were a number of blue ribbons that you have all won as best in show.
So congratulations on that.
Thanks.
We are pretty -- ACS has a lot just a great new product pipeline on all the stuff that you saw.
Pretty excited about where thats going to go.
And the question I had is on in ACS on the process side.
The comments about the backlog converting at higher margins.
I mean thats all good news but hopefully you could break out how much of this is the result of your better pricing going into backlog? Is there a mix benefit and how might there be some new products in there as well? Well I think you touched on all the items I would also I guess maybe to bounce through the first part of that it's just better discipline in how we price how we understand what our cost is going to be and how do we manage that.
And what do we decide to go after.
But in addition they have done a great job on new products and moving up the value chain into the kind of simulation and operator training type products that others can't really do.
And that always gives you just a better margin overall.
Dave I dont know if there is anything you want to add to that? Yeah.
No I think thats exactly right.
So just lastly on that is where are we in that cycle? Is the push back I here from some investors as hey this is the peak and you are going to see diminished spending in these areas.
But it just doesnt seem like that would be the case with the amount of retrofits and upgrades.
But just can you comment on where we are on that cycle? Yeah I guess I have a tough time seeing that myself.
If we remember about these sales go into the petrochemical and oil and gas side.
And we have a good insight to that from just what's going on in UOP and that looks pretty robust.
And for the same reason we said before the world needs energy and there was a long period of time where there was disinvestment.
We are starting to see that churn within the refining industry that while it only grows 2% there is a big shift thats going on and high growth regions are building more capability.
And well I just have a tough time seeing that being a declining industry.
All right.
I would like to hand it over to Dave Cote for any final comments.
Thanks Elena.
We are obviously pleased with our performance in the quarter and we are able to raise our margin rates substantially even on low sales growth.
And for me anyway it's exciting to think about what we could do if we just got some sales growth.
It's exciting to think about the possibilities.
We will continue to go to plan on a slow macro environment really because there is no percentage in planning otherwise.
And I think it's important to think about this performance as a result not just of conservative planning which we talk about a lot and we do every year but it's also that relentless seed planting that we do.
Whether it's products technologies process geographies we want to do a great job not just with this quarter but this quarter next year three years from now ten years from now.
And as the planning continues and it's just a part of who we are and I think thats why you can continue to expect us outperform in the future.
So thank you for listening and I hope you are pleased as we are.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Honeywell's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants have been placed in a listen only mode and the floor will be open for your questions following the presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
Id now like to introduce your host for todays conference Elena Doom Vice President of Investor Relations.
Good morning.
Thank you Jack.
Welcome to Honeywells second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Here with me today are Chairman and CEO Dave Cote; and Senior Vice President and CFO Dave Anderson.
Todays call and webcast including any non-GAAP reconciliations are available on our website at honeywell.com/investor.
Note that elements of todays presentation contain forward-looking statements that are based on our best view of the world and of our businesses as we see them today.
These elements can change and wed ask that you interpret them in that light.
We do identify the principal risks and uncertainties that affect our business performance in our Form 10-K and other SEC filings.
This morning well review our financial results for the second quarter and share with you our outlook for the third quarter and full-year and of course leave time for your questions.
So with that Ill turn the call over to Dave Cote.
Thanks Elena.
Good morning everyone.
As Im sure youve seen by now Honeywell had a good second quarter capping off a strong first half which puts us well on our way to achieving the full-year guidance that we set back in December.
Normalizing for tax EPS was $1.22 up 8% year-over-year on an adjusted basis and in line with our guidance of a $1.18 to $1.23.
Sales of $9.7 billion were near the high-end of guidance and if you exclude defense where the headwinds are well known and as we expected them.
We saw our sales growth in each of the four businesses.
We also continue to benefit from margin expansion up 30 basis points to 16.1%.
Part of the driver here has been the savings from the proactive repositioning actions we have taken in prior period.
As we continue to face an uncertain macro outlook we think it's prudent to keep that pipeline full.
So we funded over $60 million of incremental restructuring this quarter more than offsetting an OPEB curtailment gain and bringing us to approximately $100 million of repositioning actions funded this year.
Dave is going to take you into more detail on that later.
However while investing for productivity is important it sure is a lot easier to expand margins when sales are growing.
So even in this tough environment were planting the seeds that will drive future topline growth.
Some of the lowest the risk highest return projects available to us are organic.
So we continue to invest in R&amp;D new product introductions and capacity expansion.
Our long-cycle businesses including Commercial Aerospace Process Solutions and UOP continue to benefit from a strong backlog which ended the quarter roughly $15.5 billion.
The businesses are also winning in the marketplace.
And some examples in Aerospace we now  its the newest version of our HTF7000 series engine the HTF7350 will power the new Challenger 350 super midsize business jet.
As we have said before we think the super midsized and longer range segments represented an attractive space for growth and were excited about this most recent win.
Additionally if you were at the Paris Air Show you may have noticed an awful lot of excitement around an A320 sprinting along the tarmac.
This was a demonstration of our electric green taxiing system or EGTS developed in partnership with Safran which uses the APU rather than the main engines to taxi during preflight operations.
This can provide operators up to $200 000 a year in fuel savings per aircraft.
We also had another important win with Airbus.
Though not from the from the business you were probably expecting.
Honeywell Building Solutions was awarded a $37 million project to build operate and maintain a power facility for airbuses new assembly line here in the U.S.
The project which will be done to LEED certification standard is a great example of one Honeywell cross-selling between businesses to the benefit of both Honeywell and our customers.
And finally because there are a lot to choose from Id like to highlight one UOP win.
Our Oleflex technology which converse propane into propylene was selected again this time by Ascend Performance Materials Operations the worlds largest on-purpose propylene production facility.
As youve heard Ive said before petrochemical makers are installing additional capacity to meet growing demand and to make up for the shortage of propylene production from traditional sources.
Once again order rates were mixed in the quarter with the U.S.
stable Europe trending slightly positive in both short and long cycle and a notable turnaround in China from the first quarter with sales up mid teens.
The inflexion point of China recurred in June with broad based performance improvement in all businesses.
ACF short and long cycle businesses along with stellar growth in UOP added to a much stronger performance in China than Q1 in last year while transportation systems continued its growth momentum from Q1.
We also continue to progress with our key process initiatives.
The Honeywell operating system functional transformation and velocity product development that focus on making sure that the machinery works for our employees to get their jobs done effectively and efficiently everyday makes us better at delivering both growth and productivity.
With these things in mind we continue to be confident in our 2013 outlook.
First half EPS was 238 when normalizing for tax which based in our historical linearity is trending towards the top half of the 475 to 495 guidance range we gave you back in December despite continued soft end market conditions.
As a result of this continued strong execution we raised the low end of our guidance by a nickel in the first quarter and were doing it again this quarter giving us a new EPS guidance range of 485 to 495 or up 8% to 11% for the year.
We just concluded our strategic planning reviews with each of the four businesses and while were preparing for near-term underlying macro conditions to be much the same what was particularly impressive with each businesses innovation pipeline and growth opportunities.
We are looking forward to sharing this and more with you early next year when we publish our new five-year plan.
But you can expect our continued evolution in everything to drive outperformance over this timeframe.
So with that Ill turn it over to Dave to talk you through more on the detail.
Dave? Thanks.
Good morning and welcome and appreciate your participation this morning.
Lets start with slide number 4 and let me walk you through the summary financial results for the second quarter.
Sales of $9.7 billion were up approximately 3% year-over-year on a reported basis near the high-end of our guidance range and up 1% on an organic basis.
The Americas were roughly flat really driven by lower defense and space sales while Europe as Dave said was good overall up 1% and China was up 14% driven by improvement in our short cycle businesses mainly at ESS the Energy Safety and Security business of ECS and also transportation systems.
In addition we had continued good long cycle growth in China.
Segment profit for the quarter was up 4% with segment margins expanding 30 basis points to 16.1%.
Now it's important to note we had margin expansion of 60 basis points or more in every business other than PMT.
And you'll recall from our guidance that we gave for the quarter that PMT's margin rate was unfavorably impacted by a number of items but most notably the low UOP licensing activity this year compared to the record levels that we had in the second quarter of 2012.
So again PMT's margin decrease is largely explained by that.
And important to point out that the absolute level of PMT margins in the second quarter was 19% very impressive.
We need to keep that in mind.
Below the line items were mostly as anticipated and importantly we recognized an OPEB curtailment gain of 42 million which was more than offset by more than 60 million of restructuring actions which we're going to discuss in more detail in a moment and obviously that's another highlight for the quarter.
Moving to EPS similar to the first quarter we had a tax rate in the second quarter that was favorable relative to our guidance both for the quarter of 26.5% and our full-year guidance of 26.5%.
So we had 23.1% effective tax rate this year in the second quarter versus 26% even in the second quarter of last year.
However while the timing of certain tax items will continue to be lumpy we continue to expect that full-year rate of 26.5% for the year.
That means that roughly $0.11 of favorability that we've experienced in the first half we had $0.05 in the first quarter $0.06 in the second quarter will be offset in the second half.
And importantly we've assumed that will occur in the fourth quarter for planning and guidance purposes and I'm going to come back to that and cover that in a little more detail when we talk about the second half.
So for the second quarter reported EPS of $1.28 up 12% versus prior year however normalizing at the 26.5% rate both last year and this year EPS would have been $1.22 up 8%.
Finally free cash flow was 1.1 billion up 10% versus prior year and represents a conversion rate of approximately 112% so very good cash quarter also.
So with that summary let's go to slide 5 let's start with Aerospace on slide 5.
For the quarter sales were down 1% as commercial growth of 5% was more than offset by declines in Defense &amp; Space.
In the commercial side lead sales were up 8% driven by continued strong OE build rates in large in large air transport and continued healthy demand in the mid to large cabin business aircraft segment but we've got such a strong position.
Moving to the commercial aftermarket sales were up 3% driven by commercial excellence the improved flight hour growth and the continued uptake of repairs modifications and upgrades or RMUs in the BGA segment partially offset by fewer maintenance events.
Now if you look at utilization rates for a moment global flying hours were up roughly 4% year-over-year compared to the first quarter which was less than 2% so we've seen a steadily improving trend in the flight hours.
Spares growth was slightly ahead of utilization rates in the quarter and would expect these improving utilization rates to support the aftermarket growth outlook we're going to talk to you about that more in a little bit in the second half of the year.
Defense &amp; Space down 8% revenues with the U.S.
defense sales unfavorable impacted by planned ramp-downs project ramp-downs as well as some program delays partially offset by growth in international markets.
And again while sequestration headwinds continue to be a challenge for the business we still had a number of key program starts in the quarter and we continue to believe we're on track to our full-year expectations for D&amp;S down revenues 4% for the full-year.
Turning to segment profit the Aerospace margins expanded 90 basis points to 19.5% driven by commercial excellence productivity net of inflation and partially offset by lower Defense &amp; Space sales.
Let's now turn to ACS Automation and Control on slide 6.
ACS sales for the quarter were up 3%.
They had growth in all three of their sub-segments and in every region.
On an organic basis sales of the U.S.
were up 2% driven by improving residential and market conditions offsetting tougher industrial comparables last year.
And non-res construction remains depressed although the orders pipeline does appear to be improving.
Europe was up slightly outperforming the overall market with good growth in ESS partially offset by building solutions as a result of soft economic conditions.
In China sales were up 6% with good growth in both the short and long cycle businesses in ACS.
Now transitioning and just going through a couple of the high points of each of the ACS sub-segment.
ESS Energy Safety and Security sales were up 3% globally.
We had particularly good performance in ECC in security as well as fire with organic growth in all of these pieces 5% or better as a result of new products continued good geographic expansion and also continued evidence of the U.S.
residential strength that I referenced earlier and we'll come back later and particularly give you a little more color in terms of those segments.
Process Solutions sales were up 4% for ACS afforded by continued good services growth and the uptake in our advanced solutions software offerings.
And just like the first quarter we had strong sales conversion as a result of higher margin in the backlog.
For BSD Buildings Solutions and Distribution sales were up 1% driven by higher sales in the Americas security distribution business and also in building services.
Moving to segment margins ACS was up 110 basis points in the quarter to 14.4% representing over 50% sales conversion much of it reflected in higher gross margins.
Commercial excellence a number of operational improvements particularly notably in Process Solutions and strong productivity net of inflation including the repositioning benefits that are flowing through all of these contributed to the ACS margin performance in the quarter.
Now let's go to slide 7 and look at the highlights for PMT Performance Materials and Technologies.
Sales for PMT were 1.7 billion up 9% in the quarter driven by continued growth in UOP.
UOP saw almost 40% top line growth 11% on an organic basis primarily driven by the addition of Thomas Russell increased catalyst shipment also higher equipment sales reflecting strong petrochemical as well as gas end markets.
Now the UOP backlog continues to be robust up 10% organically with strong customer adoption of new UOP technologies and investments in new capacity.
On the other side advanced material sales were down 6% versus prior year reflecting soft end markets overall.
Flooring saw a slow start to the cooling season resulting in delayed purchases by customers presumably that's beginning to pick up now as well as lower production volumes from the continued Metropolis plant shutdown which resumed operations at the site in July following approximately 12-month shutdown for structural upgrades.
Now Resins &amp; Chemicals experienced lower production volumes year-over-year primarily related to plant outages and also soft market conditions in China.
As I said earlier segment margins for PMT were down 360 basis points consistent with our expectations and what we communicated to you back in April primarily driven by the impact of lower UOP licensing sales versus last year lower advanced material volumes growth investments that we continue to make in PMT as well as the impact inflation.
We also continued to see dilution in the margin rate for PMT and again as expected from the Thomas Russell acquisition which we will lap in the fourth quarter.
So for the full-year we continue to expect PMT margins in the range of 18.4% to 18.6%.
Let's finish off the segment highlights by going to Transportation Systems slide 8.
So TS in the quarter sales up 5% year-over-year the first gain importantly since 2011 with turbo volumes up high single digits as higher turbo gas penetration in all regions strong growth from new launches and improving China commercial vehicle sales more than offset slight declines in European light vehicle production in the quarter.
Now were really encouraged by what's been a relatively stable production environment although the possibility of a second half inventory correction still exits as new car registrations continue to be weak in Europe and we planned accordingly which well cover in a moment when we talk about TS in the second half outlook.
Segment margins for the business were up 60 basis points to 13.3% in the second quarter primarily driven by strong productivity in volume leverage partially offset by unfavorable price.
And just as a reminder in June we completed the one year anniversary of the closure of the FMs or the initiation of the FMs closure of Conde the friction material closure of Conde.
We completed that this June and that facility in the foreclosure that facility will provide meaningful productivity benefits beginning in the second half and of course flowing through to 2014.
Now before we move to our third quarter expectations I just want to take a moment to update you on the status of our restructuring pipeline because as Dave referenced earlier thats going to continue to be an important element of our continued margin expansion efforts.
So on slide 9 starting with the left hand side of the chart.
What weve done here is walk you from our restructuring balance at the end of the year to where at the end of 2012 to where we are today.
And as you can see while we successfully executed a roughly $70 million of outstanding projects we funded approximately $100 million of new projects adding to the projects in process through the first six months of the year.
Now moving to the right side of the page just to help you a little bit in terms of understanding this chart; the blue bar on the right hand side of the chart reflects the cumulative repositioning funding that weve done in 2012 as well as year-to-date 2013.
So the blue bar represents over $200 million of growth repositioning over six quarters and delivering savings shown in the red bars of $130 million in 2013 and over $220 million or an incremental $90 million in 2014.
So many of our projects were very pleased to say have between a one to two year payback so were being proactive here and it's a big reason again weve been able to continue to expand margins in this slow growth environment.
Further we continue to identify and drive cost saving projects across the Company.
Funding projects to realign resources and regional footprints to reflect the current global growth outlook and our market opportunities and were also executing against our acquisition integrations plans to drive cost synergies delivering further benefits in 2014 and obviously beyond.
So now lets go to slide 10 and lets discuss our outlook for the third quarter.
For the third quarter were expecting sales to be in the range of $9.8 billion to $10 billion up 2% to 4% on an organic basis.
EPS is expected to be in the range of $1.20 to $1.25 up 5% to 10% when you normalize for the tax rate of 26.5% in both years.
So lets just do kind of a quick recap on kind of the revenue outlook and as well as a couple of references to margin for the third quarter by business.
In Aerospace were expecting sales to be up low single digits perhaps 1% to 3% driven by commercial growth including mid single digit growth in the aftermarket as a result of easier comps and improved utilization rates partially offset by mid single digit declines in defense and space.
Now we expect ACS sales to be up 2% to 4% in the third quarter on an organic basis and incremental sales growth resulting from the Intermec acquisition which we now expect to close in the third quarter.
It's also important to note that the Intermec and RAE systems acquisitions will have a dilutive impact on ACSs margin in the third quarter of approximately 100 basis points.
So ACSs reported segment margin will be down slightly year-over-year likely in the range of 20 to 30 basis points a result at the acquisition headwind.
In PMT were expecting sales to be up 13% to 16% which equates to mid single digit growth organically.
As weve seen before UOP can be lumpy and as a result we expect their organic growth to be mid single digit in the quarter as we lack higher catalysts in service sales.
Advance materials into the third quarter is expected to see an improvement in organic growth with sales up mid single digit reflecting improved production levels at Hopewell in the resins and chemicals business and also the restart of Metropolis as I mentioned earlier in the floorings products business both of those in the third quarter.
Finally in Transportation Systems were expecting sales to be up 2% to 4% reflecting strong uptake of new launches and also the growth in turbo penetration globally.
The growth is against the backdrop of lower EU light vehicle production rates expected to be down 3% year-over-year contemplating a slight inventory correction in Europe as we move into the summer shutdown season.
Now we expect a lift in the TS margin rate year-over-year helped in part by the footprint transition that I mentioned earlier although we expect given their strong margin rate performance in the second quarter that TS sequentially their margin will be flat to slightly down now in the third quarter.
So with that in mind lets turn to slide 11 where well walk through some of the second half drivers that could push us towards the lower high end of our guidance range.
So looking at slide 11 entitled to second half 2013 guidance framework let me just give a couple of highlights.
In terms of our key assumptions again for commercial aircraft we expect growth will be an important contributor to the second half outlook; we are lapping a relatively earlier which is to say a more normal year-over-year cost.
At the mid point of the range weve assumed the aftermarket sales are largely in line with utilization with the likely case the airlines continue to aggressively manage inventory levels but that improving flight hour growth will equate to more normal buying patterns consistent with what we saw at the end of the second quarter.
For ESSs the business was up roughly 2% organic in the first half driven by again ECC security and improvements in life safety.
And while the composition may fluctuate a little bit in the recovery were still expecting low to mid single digit growth overall for ESS with no change in the overall economic backdrop.
Now the composition of PMT growth is expected to be different UOP sales would be up organically but at a slightly lower rate with lower petrochemical catalyst shipments sequentially in the second half which would create an unfavorable mix dynamic.
And as we referenced earlier we should see a meaningful improvement in both R&amp;C and flooring products in the second half for both those businesses.
Pricing will also continue to be an important variable with our mid point based on stable prices at today's levels.
For Turbo in the second half well be watching obviously the note that summer shutdown plans of the OEMs with our base case assumption best described as stable which would translate into second half EU light vehicle production down just slightly on a year-over-year basis.
Finally rounding up our list we have China sales which we thought of more broadly as barometer for our high growth market and the Euro and FX rate which will continue to plan for at the 125 at the midpoint.
So taking these elements into account complemented by a continued assumption of strong cost controls strong execution by the businesses we think this gives us a balanced range of plus or minus $0.05 around $4.90 at the mid point for the full-year.
So now lets turn to slide 12 where well put it all together from a full-year perspective.
Now the slides are a little different than weve given you in the past but we think it will be helpful for you to understand the dynamics of our second half outlook.
First full-year sales reflect our first half performance and no change to the second half outlook where sales for the full-year expected to be up 3% to 4% or 1% to 2% on an organic basis.
Now the reported basis we could see an impact based on the timing of the Intermec close but we feel its incorporated into a range at this point and were reworking to complete the transaction in the third quarter.
Second margins are estimated to be 16% to 16.2% for the full-year 2013 up 40 to 60 basis points year-over-year.
Now as we discussed you can see the estimated impact in the third quarter to segment margin due to the dilutive impact of Intermec RAE systems and the Thomas Russell acquisition roughly a 50 basis point headwind in the third quarter in terms of our margin rates which translates to $0.02 to $0.03 think of that as $0.03 of EPS headwind for the quarter.
Now obviously on the subject of M&amp;A as the integrations occur and the cost synergies are realized the M&amp;A will be a benefit for us in 2014 and beyond.
Even with that headwind you can see that our full-year guidance is roughly at or above the low end of our 2014 margin targets with significant contributions coming from advanced materials and transportation systems in the fourth quarter.
Finally on EPS we're raising the bottom end of our guidance by $0.05 making the new range $4.85 to $4.95.
And as we referenced earlier we continue to use a full-year tax rate of 26.5% which would be flat to 2012 with no impact year-over-year.
However as we think about the linearity within 2013 again the first half EPR of about 23% was below the full-year rate and so we've guided now to 26.5% for the third and for modeling purposes we're expecting a tax headwind in the fourth quarter which works out to be approximately $0.11 versus our 26.5% full-year planning assumption.
Now we take this updated range captures our strong performance in the first half.
It's appropriately balanced for the remaining risks and opportunities we've talked about in the second half.
And as for the takeaways it's important to be clear that we're not counting on a macro lift in the second half.
So now let's turn to slide 13 for a brief wrap-up before we turn it over to you and Elena for Q&amp;A.
In summary on slide 13 the second quarter results puts us another step closer to delivering on the high expectations that we set out for you last December.
As expected the environment has remained challenging but Honeywell has continued to see strong execution supporting its results.
And consistent with our prior views we're not expecting not counting on a big second half recovery.
We've seen pockets of short-cycle improvements.
The costs are getting easier and the investments in residential construction do seem to be improving and again evidence of that in our ESS businesses.
However while we have seen some signs of improving activity non-residential investment remains weak and it will be watching the customer demand signals in Aerospace and Automotive obviously very closely in the second half.
Our emerging markets are not likely to accelerate in the near term so probably the best way to summarize our end market expectations for the second half is really just stable.
With that in mind we'll continue to focus on executing sustainable productivity including delivering on the strong project pipeline we've already funded.
And new product introductions which are the lifeblood of our growth will remain on overdrive helping to deliver next quarter next year and beyond.
You'll see evidence of that in the wide range of exciting new wins that Dave highlighted at the start of this call.
So with that Elena let's go over to you for Q&amp;A.
Thanks David.
With that we'll now take our first question on the line.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from Steven Winoker with Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Thanks and good morning Dave Dave Elena.
Hi Steve.
Nice productivity.
What was the pricing in the quarter? I don't know it's top of my head but Pricing or commercial excellence is one of the things that we have focused on for a long time and it gets geared towards the value that we provide with a lot of our new products and services but I don't have the number at the top of my head.
It's up several basis points to the margin rate expansion in the quarter.
I think another way to say it is and this is a theme Steve where we talk about a lot is pricing and productivity more than offset inflation.
That's what we're just going to continue to do.
Okay.
I'm just trying to get a sense for the unit versus pricing impact to that.
That's helpful.
And on Defense &amp; Space down 8% I know you mentioned it in line with the planned ramp-downs and expectations but I recall from the Defense &amp; Space Day a plan that was just close to full sequestration but not at full sequestration.
Are you planning numbers now and incorporating kind of a full sequestration impact over the remaining next  on a multiyear basis? Well the way we planned it and I think I've said this before but we'd assumed about 80% of the sequestration impact and had contingency plans for the remaining 20% just assuming that that was probably the best bet is unfolded that way.
We launched a contingency plan so yeah everything we're reflecting and the way we're looking at the company going forward is to assume sequestration stays.
Okay.
And what that basically gives you about a 4% decline in D&amp;S sales for 2013 versus 2012.
Okay.
And I know you can't say too much about it but on the ELT topic that's come out and your announcement on that I'm just still trying to get my head around something that doesn't seem to have enough power to generate the heat that would be required to melt the frame in kind of non-rechargeable self-contained basis.
Any kind of color you might provide that this may be more than that or I just don't get  I'm just struggling with the kind of physics of the issue? Yeah I get a couple of comments.
The first one is my biggest learning from going through a number of these kinds of investigations in the past is to wait to find out what the final result is before opining on anything as these things just  they go all over the place.
The media loves it.
So any little snip that they pick up anywhere they report.
And I've just learned that wait wait until they've done the job and when you look at the AIB and the FAA they'll do a good job sorting this whole thing through.
So we'll just wait to find out what the actuals are and respond to it then.
In the meantime with anything that have been discussed we could say there's no significant financial impact to Honeywell in any way.
Okay all right.
Let me get off.
Thanks.
Thanks Steve.
Our next question comes from Scott Davis with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Hi Scott.
The one thing that there wasn't a slide on was really cash usage and can you give us a sense of  and maybe on a forward look really I mean next six months next 12 months if given the M&amp;A pipe you have out there what kind of cash opportunity you have to put things to work? I'll probably just talk a little bit about the quarter.
We've bought back shares in the quarter I think was 6 million shares in the quarter so that was an attractive I think use of cash.
We closed on the RAE systems.
Due to regulatory review the close on Intermec was pushed into the third quarter.
We'll close on Intermec in the third quarter.
That's mid $600 million in terms of acquisition.
And I would say Scott right now just on a forward-looking basis Dave get your views on this I think the acquisition pipeline is relatively attractive.
It's always a matter of the distance between the cup and the lip and seeing the whites of the eyes of these opportunities in terms of a full due diligence and valuation and a very disciplined approach Scott that we take to M&amp;A.
But I will continue to say to you that I think that we're very very well positioned for inorganic growth to complement our organic growth in this environment.
And the other thing we'll continue to do is we'll continue to look at on a dividend standpoint we'll look at doing the right thing there in the context of growing earnings and what makes sense in terms of dividend payout.
Don't you think Dave that's the best? Yeah the strategy remains the same Scott and we'll continue to be very disciplined as Dave said when it comes to acquisitions.
We haven't lost our mind there and I'd say the next thing about having a full pipeline is it allows you to be more disciplined in what you go after.
Yeah agreed.
I mean since you've done a nice job in the past I think it's always been interesting seeing more of it but that's a high class problem.
We'll continue to be smart about it I can promise you that.
Yes.
Guys I want to talk a little bit about EOP and then I'll pass it on.
I mean this is a business that Im not sure I know Ive never been able to forecast and Im guessing where a lot of other people struggle there I mean it's been outgrowing the end market for quite some time now and with less volatility than we use to get it it used to be a -- it was always a great business but it used to be much more volatile.
It's scary to me only because were -- weve had so many good quarters in a row here I mean what what's changed in this business that makes it so much of a better business now or less volatile business now or maybe even more predictable now than what we used to get.
Are we going to get blown up one of these quarters on this thing and not see it coming? Yeah I think thats where you were going.
While at the end of the day quarter-to-quarter it's still I mean lumpy is the word weve always used.
Some dont like it but it's true.
Quarter-to-quarter is always going to be lumpy.
Year-to-year though the forecast stability if thats the word is pretty reasonable and should continue to grow.
It's not just the end market goodness that weve seen.
But youve heard me talk about it before when it comes to UOP but weve done a significant amount of seed planting here.
If you go back to when it was a JV youve heard me say before that when one partner wanted to invest the other didnt and that was true for us too.
And as a result of that there was 20 years of just kind of ambling along just terrific technologies people culture everything but it was really ambling along more than anything else.
We really invigorated that when we took over the whole thing and put a lot more money into R&amp;D and horizon free spending.
You dont see it right away but over the course of that ensuing six or seven years man it has started to pay off really well and thats what youre seeing the benefits are which allows us to put even more money back into it to develop new things.
Youve seen it happen in some of the cultural changes as theyve expanded globally improving a reach that used to be more mental than physical and we just have more people out there now than we ever did before and all those things taken together the technology the money weve put into it the people outreach the customer outreach is just really paying off very well.
It looks like it is.
Thank you guys good luck.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Thank you good morning.
Hey Howard.
I want to go into aerospace for a moment just two things one is could you characterize where youre spending research and development and how you look for that what were the numbers Dave this year versus last and how do you characterize it please.
Well Id characterize it as we like all the businesses that were in in aerospace so we support them all with R&amp;D.
In terms of big programs that are all the ones which youre familiar with like the A350 and the wins that weve gotten over the last four five years.
In terms of the overall spending growth investments continue in aerospace.
I dont know if we disclosed the specific numbers.
We spend just under 8% of sales on R&amp;D thats funded from the Company.
That I would say Howard one of the things that weve tried to do is consistent with the seed planting point is were still investing in all the businesses when it comes to the growth investments that weve talked about because we dont want to just make this quarter this year we want to make it next year six years from now ten years from now; sp all the businesses are doing a really good job of reinvesting.
And that spending level is up about $75 million $80 million on a year-over-year basis.
Per year.
Thats on the quarter or that should mean  For the year.
For the year.
And it sounds like youre putting a little more emphasis on mechanical and based on some things that Tim seemed to have said lately; is there some incremental opportunities there? I like both both the mechanical and the electronic side and increasingly were seeing an interplay between mechanical and electronic and thats what you see with like the electric taxi.
We do like the components business the mechanical components business as weve discussed and there is a place where you can truly differentiate with technology and I think Tim mentioned that we -- at Investor Day that we had about $4 billion in wins on mechanical components to we had not anticipated in the past.
So I like the whole thing.
And then just to change Dave to talk about ESS I mean there is clearly either its a change in the market or is some product differentiation could you just elaborate a little bit more on some of the successes that youve achieved there and address on the momentum please? Maybe I could just start there upon numbers just add a little bit more color to what we talked about in the second quarter.
Then I will ask Dave to talk a little bit about some of the innovation some of the things that are really kind of continue to drive ESS growth going forward.
We saw as I mentioned in my comments we saw good growth in the second quarter ECC security and in Fire particularly.
The Fire was up 6% globally ECC was up 5% globally and HSG the Security business was up 7% globally.
And the numbers are all better in the U.S.
for those businesses.
So whether its call it retrofit residential retrofit or some benefits of improved housing starts is a little bit of evidence as well as that when you look at the ECS ECC homes business.
Its clearly and the momentum has been building.
You can see it.
Its not like its spiked.
You actually can see the momentum building.
And as Dave said kind of back to the broader team we completed our strap reviews last week; I mean there is just a lot of good stuff thats going on within that group of businesses.
Yeah I would go back to the seed planting point Howard it may seem like a  an overused message here but man its the truth its the money that we put in the past are just developing products that people want that help develop adjacencies where people may be didnt even realize that was a product that could solve their problem.
We are doing that in every single business across the company and which youre seeing in ESS is a function of that.
So the only business that has continue to be a little bit slower is the sensing and control business largely driven by a weak industrial environment but same thing there.
Theyve got some great stuff coming thats helping to mitigate that and I think portends a pretty good future.
Thank you all very much.
Youre welcome.
And our next question comes from Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
Hey Steve.
Can you guys just may be walk through if there has been any change to any of the segment revenue forecasts for the year that doesnt seem to many but are there any kind of tweaks up or down? Obviously it didnt change sales but within that  the segments? Well Elena do you want to talk about that from a guidance standpoint? Sure.
We tweak slightly up or overall revenue guidance for the year and if you could talk about that by segment.
Sure.
We raised it by $100 million reflecting the second quarter revenues coming in at the high-end of our guidance.
When you look at the businesses for Aerospace there is really a little bit of a change upward relative to the midpoint by may be $50 million.
If you look at ACS ACS is still on track relative to their call it $16.4 billion to $16.6 billion for the year so thats up again at the midpoint slightly on  versus our prior guide.
PMT is looking potentially a little bit lower so $6.8 billion to $6.9 billion versus that maybe at the midpoint about a $100 million less and then TS is were still continuing the outlook there given as Dave referenced the potential for some inventory correction in the third quarter given the strength that we had in the second quarter.
So really just refinements I think you would say to those numbers.
Yeah exactly on the midpoint plus or minus $50 million to $100 million.
Right.
Got you.
Okay thanks.
Our next question comes from Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning folks.
Mr.
Sprague how are you? Im doing good Mr.
Cote.
How are you? Hey can we talk about China a little bit? (Indiscernible) when you say it.
You know if I think about what seems to be playing out from a macro standpoint it sounds worrisome and youre now the third or fourth Company this earnings season that sounds actually better and more comped.
You're the fourth company in this earnings season that sounds actually better and more confident.
I just wondered if you could elaborate a little bit more on some new advantage point what you think really is going on? And is it CapEx driven or people catching up on maintenance? Any impact from the full shadow banking question just ask for your collective wits on what's going on there? The collective wit that makes us assemble us but at the end of the day as you know long term I'm very much a believer in China and what I think they can accomplish.
And it's going to endure its ups and downs for a variety of reasons but I do think that that kind of 6% to 7% GDP type planning is the way to go.
We have seen some downturn as we talked about in I guess the first four or five months of the year.
I think that was more I'd say a correction than anything else responding to tightening money.
We still see the impact of some of that on something like airline spares where in China I think the fourth quarter was up like 30% or 40% in anticipation of what was going to come so first six months continued to be low.
That's another one that I do think comes back at some point.
So I'm a believer long term and I think we're going to continue do well there.
I was actually also a little surprised.
I think you said China's up 14 overall.
I would have expected that would have been driven largely by ACS but I think the comment was ACS China up 6.
So where did it really come in it is TS or was it somewhere else? Well we had good growth.
Let me talk a little bit about that Jeff.
We had good growth kind of across the board.
We had good growth in aero R&amp;O.
We had good growth in the ECS short cycle you said at the number we mentioned earlier.
But also in the long cycle businesses of ACS we had good growth in UOP particularly at two projects that completed where there was revenue conversion.
And HTT in the turbo business what we've seen is kind of a rebound now in the commercial vehicle business sales and our penetration there as you know is good.
So we saw good growth in turbo as well.
By the way we expect that to continue into the second half which is a nice tailwind for that business and into 2014.
So it's not an individual business.
It really is kind of  I mean there's a few exceptions that go the other way but in general when you look across the Honeywell portfolio China looks pretty good.
And then just on restructuring I mean obviously the story is well understood on Honeywell operationally it's a much better company today than it was 8 or 10 years ago.
It's all your credit on the line.
It seems like you continue to find a lot of restructuring opportunities I mean intuitively I think they get harder to find in their longer payback and instead you continue to find and then the paybacks are decent.
Is it actually because of HOS and other things it was actually getting easier to find stuff to do things that maybe weren't obvious or not jumping out.
How do we get our head around that? Yeah I would say we're never going to be devoid of ideas and we were getting some of the same kind of questions if you recall Jeff even five or six years ago and I think as long as we keep focused on those key process initiatives so the Honeywell operating system as you mentioned where we're just getting to the point where we're 70% or 80% bronze and we've still got silver and gold to go and there's big benefits in each of those cases.
Functional transformation you've heard me say we expect another 1.5 to 2 points of margin expansion over time just coming from that.
And velocity product development which helps to reduce the overall cost of R&amp;D and that frees up additional resources for us to be able to do more in new programs.
So I'm going to point all three of those and say every one of those initiatives helps us to come up with more and more ideas as we got forward.
And it's not like we're scrapping the barrel to find ideas.
There's still plenty more out there.
One thing maybe just to add to that very quickly is Dave's kind of underpinning all of it is the continued investment that we make in the ERP EPS implementation which is a big enabler and a foundation that's really supporting the efficiency productivity across all of the items that they've mentioned Jeff.
I think that's a good point Dave because that's particularly true in ACS.
If you take a look at that that's the business that has been I guess the most complicated to get SAP installed and we're finally getting to a critical mass there with the 60% or 65% by the end of the year completed and we're starting to see the benefits of that.
So I still see lots of good ideas to come.
Great thanks.
Good work.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Andrew Obin with Bank of America.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hi.
Just a question on Aerospace aftermarket could you give us more color by region as to how this 2% improvement was across the globe? Andrew so I guess the color I would start with is if you look at the large aero transport and regional market which is really the big commercial jets the aftermarket there was up 2%.
And what we really were looking at there is an indicator versus flight hours with the fares growth.
So the fares were up 4%.
R&amp;O was down slightly.
From a regional perspective I'd call out that China continued to see the same phenomena that we had in the first quarter with fares down large double digit partially offset by about a mid teen percent growth in the R&amp;O business.
So for total China which again we've been watching because the dynamics have really shifted in 2013.
The overall aftermarket was down slightly but significant and some good improvement versus the first quarter.
Yeah and that R&amp;O growth which you cited and we had good numbers in the U.S.
we had good numbers in EMEA.
So that's what really supported it.
And just to follow-up on the question on China your strong performance there can you guys separate your strategy where you're taking market share you're going to later markets versus the underlying markets? How much of it is do you think macro on the ground versus how much of it is your  the company-specific strategy? Well I'd say that's a tough one to ever sort out but I would say you're right about the focus on becoming the Chinese competitor.
It does make a difference.
It's not the easiest markets to measure when it comes to what the overall size is.
But I do know that's making a difference.
I'd be hard pressed to be able to say how much of the growth is because of the market versus what we're doing specifically.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
Our next question comes from Peter Arment with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> Good morning everyone.
Hi Peter.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> Hi.
Just first a clarification on the comments on Defense being down 8% and kind of your expectations in the second half of the year heading into '14.
Is it still the expectation that '14 still would look better than '13 given the international programs or has that changed with sequestration? I'll think you'll see likely a decline Peter in 2014 for D&amp;S but at a lesser rate than 4% that we're forecasting guiding to for 2013.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> Okay.
We see some improvement in the rate of decline for D&amp;S in 2014 would be our current thinking.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> Okay thank you.
It's a positive statement Peter.
It takes years to develop them.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> Back to Jeff's question on the restructuring comments in particular I guess to Defense &amp; Space given the softness you are seeing you've made a lot of progress already on all the enablers that you have across all the businesses but in particular Aerospace.
How do we think about restructuring opportunities as Defense kind of softens here? I think for us it's less of it  whatever Defense decline we run into I think you've heard me talk about this some in the past.
It's not that big a deal for us when it comes to what kind of the impact are we structuring because Defense is more of a sales channels than it is a let's say specific market with specific products.
It's really just kind of similar jet engines that we make for commercial go into military APUs the electronics.
So it's pretty easy for us to just shift the engineering resources and plant production from working on Defense to working on commercial.
People don't need to move.
You don't need to rehire anywhere so it's pretty straightforward for us.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> Okay.
And just if I could squeeze in one last one.
On the electric taxi which was a cool demo in Paris but how do we think about  can you give us any sort of color on the customer interest that you saw and when will we expect to see some of those customers sign up? I know entry into service isn't until 2016? Yeah this one's been pretty cool because when we first came out with the idea there was a lot of interest more than I have to admit.
I really expected right from the beginning because usually it takes some time.
The interesting part is that interest has grown and the amount of publicity that we got for that electric taxi and the increasing speed so that it outraces a human today and will do even better in the future is pretty exciting.
So there's a huge amount of interest.
I can't predict when the first order comes in but I'm pretty confident in this product.
This really looks like we jointly have a winner here.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> Okay and that's great.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Jack we have time for one more question before we hand the call back over to Dave Cote for his final comments.
All right.
We'll take our last question from Shannon O'Callaghan with Nomura Securities.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Hi Shannon.
Hi.
A couple things first on Europe you guys have been seeing some improvements in Europe for the last couple quarters.
What's better there what's not? It's been  I'd say the short cycle side has actually been showing improvement and we're not ready to declare victory on this one yet because it's kind of  it's tough to see end market or macro conditions supporting a big bounce there but it's been encouraging to see so far the new product introductions that we've had do help.
Our expectations were low and we've planned pretty conservatively but it's been pretty much across the board on the short cycle side.
Turbos did better the ACS businesses did better so it's been kind of across the board.
I've mentioned earlier Peter when we talk about the fact that  I'm sorry Shannon we talked earlier too about the Aero business and we saw reasonably good numbers in terms of the EMEA or the European aftermarket for Aerospace as well.
So as Dave said it's no single item but  I mean the good news is when you look at our short cycle businesses to your point there against the backdrop of the macros it's really very good performance.
And then just on CapEx we haven't really seen that go up yet year-to-date.
Is there any change to your plan there or is that going to ramp more kind of second half of this year and into '14 and any color there? I would say the plans haven't really changed to your point but both the UOP and fluorine plants we need to build because we have the orders for them already so this just more a matter of timing than anything else.
Yeah you would anticipate given the point you make Shannon that's a good observation that the third quarter for example we're going to see cash flow probably a little lower than prior year as a result of that ramp-up in CapEx so we'll probably give back a little bit of that favorability that we've got on a year-to-date basis as we've got very nice cumulative free cash flow favorability going into the second half.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
Thanks.
Very well.
We continue to be confident in our ability to outperform even in this weak macro environment and all the feed planting we've done and continue to do for growth in productivity around the world and in every business makes a huge difference for us.
So thank you for listening and have a great summer.
See you.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Honeywells Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants have been placed in a listen only mode and the floor will be open for your questions following the presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
Id now like to introduce your host for todays conference Elena Doom Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you Jack.
Welcome to Honeywells third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Here with me today are Chairman and CEO Dave Cote; and Senior Vice President and CFO Dave Anderson.
This call and webcast including any non-GAAP reconciliations are available on our website at www.honeywell.com/investor.
We ask that you keep in mind that todays presentation contains forward-looking statements that are based on our best view of the world and of our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change and we ask that you interpret them in that light.
We identify the principal risks and uncertainties that affect our performance in our Form 10-K and other SEC filings.
This morning well review our financial results for the third quarter share with you our outlook for the fourth and provide an initial framework for 2014 and finally will leave time for your questions.
So with that Ill turn the call over to Dave Cote.
Thanks Elena.
Good morning everyone.
As Im sure youve seen by now we had another good quarter benefiting from our diverse portfolio our continued focus on new products and geographic expansion and our ability to effectively manage what continues to be an uncertain macro environment.
If you normalize for tax which is expected to be 26.5% on a full year basis again this year we delivered another quarter of double-digit EPS growth with the results coming in at the high end of our guidance range.
This is driven large part by strong sales conversion with segment margins expanding 90 basis points to 16.7% higher than we anticipated reflecting favorable mix a delay in closing Intermec and our continued focus on productivity.
An important driver of the productivity weve seen this year continues to be the savings were seeing from previously funded restructuring actions.
And Dave will provide greater update on that shortly.
As you will see were being proactive about keeping that restructuring pipeline full which we think is critical to supporting our continued margin growth in 2014 and beyond.
However while managing our cost is important were also focused on supporting sales growth investing in high ROI capacity new products and technologies in high growth regions.
That said it wont comes any surprise that this continues to be a challenging macro environment.
EPS and margin expansion were both strong but that was in spite of lower than expected sales in the quarter which was driven primarily by Intermec close timing and lower Defense &amp; Space sales.
Excluding Defense &amp; Space sales were up 3% organically in the quarter.
When it comes to Defense &amp; Space youre all aware of the ongoing sequestration impacts and the recent government shutdown.
We saw some shipment delays in the quarter and while we are expecting some level of recovery before the end of the year we think the prudent approach is to conservatively adjust our aerospace sales outlook.
The aero team is working hard to manage through the current defense challenges and we continue to expect a more muted decline in 2014.
On the M&amp;A front the good news is Intermec is now officially closed.
Even though it took a little longer than we would have liked but now the real work can begin.
We are really excited about the business which roughly doubles the size of our scanning and mobility portfolio and the opportunity to merge Intermecs expertise in innovative products and solutions in to our already great position in the highly attractive automatic identification and data collection space.
In addition to strengthening our core business Intermec will open up new opportunities with their global presence and channel strength in addition to adjacencies in voice and RFID.
This quarter is also a good reminder of the importance of a balanced portfolio which helped offset some of the defense headwinds I have just mentioned.
Some of our key short-cycle businesses specifically energy safety and security as well as turbo had very strong quarters.
While our long-cycle businesses maintain healthy backlogs currently over 15.5 billion.
Geographically which is also an important part of the balance we continue to see good growth in the U.S.
in residential and turbo markets.
We are encouraged by the pick-up in short-cycle order rates in Europe overall and continued growth in China following a slow start to the year.
With just over two months left in the year we are confident in our ability to deliver at the high end of the guidance we set for 2013 last December.
As a reminder we stuck by our earnings outlook all year steadily raising the low end of our EPS guidance in prior quarters to reflect a year-to-date performance and we are doing it again.
As a result of the continued strong execution we saw in the third quarter were raising the low end of our guidance by a nickel giving us a new EPS guidance range of 4.90 to 4.95 or up 9% to 11% for the year.
Turning to 2014 I said this before but there is nothing out there to suggest anything but continued conservative planning is best.
Despite whats expected to be a continued slow growth environment were confident organic growth will accelerate for Honeywell in 2014.
We are in the process of completing our annual operating plans and overall the foundation is in place for another great year.
Looking across the portfolio we see positive order and win rates providing sales tailwinds going into next year.
The repositioning benefits I mentioned earlier will provide further leverage for growth and we expect to continue to benefit from the momentum in investments in our process initiatives and high growth region expansion.
We are going to remain flexible and believe that our seed planting for the future great positions and good industries and strength of execution will set us up for another year of outperformance next year despite the uncertain and slow global growth environment.
So with that Ill turn it over to Dave to walk you through more color commentary.
Dave? Thanks Dave and good morning everyone.
And I appreciate your participation this morning.
Lets start out on slide number 4 Im going to walk you through the summary of financial results for the third quarter.
Sales of $9.6 billion up approximately 3% on a reported basis 1% on an organic basis and as Dave said and shown on the slide up 3% organic if you exclude the impact of D&amp;S in the quarter.
The sales were below the low end of our original guidance of $9.8 billion primarily due to several factors.
Ill take you through those.
First as we mentioned were excited obviously to close the Intermec transaction but it did take longer.
And as a result the sales were lower than guidance by almost 120 million.
So clearly this is the biggest contributor to the change or that be compared to our guidance for the quarter.
Defense &amp; Space sales were down more than expected primarily due to supply chain constraints and also some shipment delays which we expect to recover over the next few quarters.
Thats about $100 million and Im going to take you through that detail as well.
And finally PMT sales were somewhat lower in the quarter due to formula pricing in resins and chemicals and we will touch on -- touch based on that when we go through PMT in a moment.
Now despite the lower than expected sales segment profit growth and margin expansion were obviously very strong.
Segment profit increased 9% with segment margins expanding approximately 90 basis points to a new high of 16.7%.
And importantly we had profit growth in margin expansion in all four businesses.
So really a balanced contribution across the group.
Its also important to point out that with the delay in the Intermec close; it also reduced the estimated segment margin dilution that we had expected in the quarter from M&amp;A.
So we had about $20 million favorability as a result of the timing of the Intermec close and thats also reflected in the ACS margin rate for the quarter.
Below the line items were mostly as anticipated however we funded all those $40 million of new repositioning actions including Intermec related projects with a net accrual of $22 million for the quarter.
Reported EPS was $1.24 represents a 3% increase year-over-year.
However on a reported basis taxes were roughly in 8% headwind in the quarter.
And additionally as you recall our guidance contemplated a 26.5% rate consistent with our expected full year rates so if you normalize for that EPS would have been a $1.25 up 10% and at the top end of the previous guidance range.
And finally free cash flow on a year-to-date basis prior to any NARCO Trust payments and Cash Pension Contributions were up year-over-year.
So in total another strong quarter giving us confidence going into the last three months of the year.
Lets now take a look go through -- a little more of the detail for each of the businesses starting with Aerospace on slide 5.
Now with the challenge in core for aerospace down 2% in revenues below our guidance for the quarter as we mentioned but all of that due to the D&amp;S shortfall.
However segment profit for aero was up 3% with strong margin expansion of a 110 basis points.
Lets go through just some of the highlights.
Commercial aero sales were up 3% in line with our expectations supported by double-digit sales increases of large commercial jet and continued healthy demand for mid to large business aircraft.
Commercial aftermarket sales were up 5% in the quarter driven by improving flight hour trends and ATR and robust RMU the repairs mods and upgrades sales in BGA.
Partially offset by lower spares demand in part due to the surplus inventory market lower spares volumes in China and lower engine advance in utilization rates in business aviation.
Now Defense &amp; Space sales were down 11% in the quarter well below our expectations.
You recall our original guidance was a decline of approximately 6% that expected decline occurred really driven by aftermarket demand deferral as well as a program completion and program wind downs.
What the additional variance in the quarter can be attributed really primarily to supply chain constraints which resulted in customer shipment delays.
I would like to just take you through that a little more detail in the following slide.
So you go to slide 6 starting with 2013 on the top half of the page you can see the quarterly defense progression of sales on the right including the deeper sales declines in the second and third quarters.
Again we expect that sales will be down for defense in the quarter mid single digits driven by program ramp downs in lower defense spending.
So half the decline was expected but the other half was unexpected.
Parts availability and supply chain constraints were primarily responsible for the lower than expected sales with a number of shipments being pushed out of the quarter.
Going forward we dont anticipate these issues repeating and as a result our expectation in the execution will improve and we will cover the sales over the next three to nine months or so.
So when you layer on an increasing challenges of the recent government shutdown and the ongoing sequester we now expect sales for D&amp;S in 2013 to be down approximately 6% for the year.
Weve seen the biggest impact from the ongoing sequester in budget cuts reflected in lower government services business which importantly is the lower margin business within the segment.
Looking forward the good news is D&amp;S backlog is down just 4% its holding up relatively well compared to the sales decline and partially due to increased international wins.
And under the current set of budget functions we expect our initial framework for 2014 to remain intact with sales down for D&amp;S low single digit 2014.
So with that background on Aero let's go to Slide 7 Automation and Control Solutions ACS.
Sales were up 4% in the quarter.
Strong growth in the products businesses a modest contribution to sales from Intermec which closed two weeks before the end of the quarter.
And as a result sales in the quarter from M&amp;A were less than initially expected but again margins were better as a result of lower than expected dilution.
Let's just go through couple of the details for ACS.
First on a regional organic basis sales in the Americas were up 4% driven by strength in residential end markets and improving trends in commercial retrofit partially offset by weaker industrial products and weak commercial install in energy products in the U.S.
Europe was approximately flat with growth in ESS driven partially or partially been offset by lower sales in building solutions.
And China sales for ACS were up 8% with good growth in both ESS and in process solutions.
Now looking at each of the businesses of ACS ESS or Energy Safety and Security sales were up 5% organically with good performance in security ECC and Life Safety as a result of the U.S.
residential strength I mentioned earlier the benefit of new product introductions and also geographic expansion.
Process Solutions sales were flat in the quarter with continued good services growth partially offset by larger project completions and consistent with the slow orders environment we've seen over the last year and a half with some customer delays and some lower capital spending.
However the good news is we saw nice uptick in project orders in the quarter coupled with an impressive pipeline of additional projects and we're seeing the benefits of efficiency and productivity gains in HPS reflected in higher margin rates.
Finally for BSD for Building Solutions and Distribution sales were up 1% organic driven by higher sales in our Americas security distribution business and building services partially offset by continued challenges in the U.S.
energy retrofit market.
Moving to segment margins EPS was up 90 basis points to 15.3% in the quarter representing terrific sales conversion much of it reflected in higher gross margins.
Commercial excellence operational improvements and strong productivity net of inflation and investments for growth all contributed to the performance.
So now let's go to PMT Performance Materials on Slide 8.
You can see for PMT in the quarter sales were 1.6 billion up 10% down slightly though on an organic basis and below the guidance we set in July again driven mostly by formula pricing and Resins and Chemicals.
However PMT executed very well reflected in strong segment profit growth of 11% in the quarter.
For UOP sales were up 30% although roughly flat organically driven by the addition of Thomas Russell increased licensing and gas processing sales reflecting continued strong refining petrochemical and gas end markets.
We did have as expected lower catalysts and service sales in the quarter again in line with our expectations since we're lapping strong petrochem catalyst shipments last year.
While services were lower Petrobras fee primarily we saw stronger licensing in UOP in the quarter.
UOP's backlog also continues to be robust up 18% organically with strong customer adoption of their new technologies as well as the benefit of investments that we're making in new capacity.
Advanced Materials sales were down 1% versus the prior year reflects continued challenging global market conditions for the Advanced Materials segment.
However operationally the plants of Advanced Materials performed well Resins and Chemicals drove higher production volumes following planned outages earlier in the year and floorings resumed production at the Metropolis site in July following an approximately 12-month shutdown for structural upgrades.
Segment margins were up 10 basis points primarily driven by the favorable impact of higher licensing and productivity in UOP partially offset by inflation and again continued investments for growth.
In the fourth quarter we'll have lapped to Thomas Russell acquisition so we expect margins to be up year-over-year but lower sequentially and in line with the normal seasonal pattern for PMT.
Now turning to Transportation Systems on Slide 9 TS saw continued improvement.
Sales were up 5% organically in the quarter driven by strong new launches higher U.S.
and China turbo gas penetration which more than offset slightly lower European light production and lower all highway sales in the U.S.
We continue to expect slightly better sales performance in the fourth quarter against the backdrop of improving auto production with turbo unit shipments slightly higher than in the third quarter.
Segment margins for TS were up almost 200 basis points to 14% with strong turbo material and operational productivity gains and volume leverage partially offset by unfavorable pricing.
As expected we saw a meaningful tailwind from the friction plant closure completed in June.
So now speaking of restructuring I'd like to take a moment to update you on the progress that we've made in 2013.
Let's go to Slide #10.
Starting on the left side of the chart entitled Restructuring Update.
This is similar to a chart we showed you last quarter.
You can see we've updated our restructuring balances to reflect third quarter activity.
We've now successfully executed on roughly 130 million of outstanding projects and we've funded approximately $140 million of new projects adding to the total projects in process for the year.
Now as a reminder the businesses as you know are constantly refining a pipeline of restructuring ideas they can vary greatly in terms of scope complexity and return.
And while project approval represents a major milestone the bottom line of course is the need to deliver the savings.
We put a lot of efforts just on execution which really leads us then to the right-hand side of the page.
If you take a longer term view of our restructuring track record you can see the correlation to the sustainable improvement in our margin rates that we've delivered each year.
And by maintaining a steady pipeline of projects you see a steady improvement in those cumulative savings.
So as Dave said this is a key element of our playbook.
So as restructuring helps fund the operational improvements we garner from our key process initiatives and also our integration plans.
And importantly it's enabled us to consistently deliver on high expectations in this slow macro growth environment.
So now let's just take a moment to align you on our second half framework and just give you an update on how that's playing out.
On Slide 11 you'll recall this framework that we used last quarter.
We highlighted some of the key factors today that would cause us to come in or above the midpoint of our guidance ranges.
So what we've done here is track where each of those elements is performing and we've shown that in red.
And coupled with our third quarter performance the framework aligns well through the right of the midpoint of the guidance that we provided.
While some of these items like the euro are fairly straightforward let's take a moment to just explain a couple of them or talk about a couple of them in a little more detail.
The commercial aftermarket for Aerospace is tracking in line with utilization rates overall.
With tougher ATR spare comps in the fourth quarter partially offset by continued strong RMUs.
Now we've added Defense &amp; Space here given the third quarter issues that we've discussed and the revised outlook that we've given you for D&amp;S for the full year.
ESS exited the third quarter with strong year-over-year growth and we're assuming continued good performance albeit with some pockets of tougher comps in the fourth quarter including ECC and the scanning and mobility businesses organically just given the strength of those businesses in the fourth quarter of 2012.
For PMT we've seen some further pricing pressures in Advanced Materials but we think those will be partially offset by improved production volumes in Resins and Chemicals as well as floorings.
And finally EU light vehicle production was down slightly in the third and our expectations are for it to be roughly flat in the fourth quarter.
So overall the market here is trending towards the high end of our expectations.
So taking these elements to account were confident in our raised full-year EPS outlook of $4.90 to $4.95 and we think were pretty balanced in that outlook.
Lets go to Slide 12 and just talk about the fourth quarter in a little more detail.
Were expecting sales to be in the range of $10.1 billion to $10.3 billion up 3% to 5% on an organic basis.
Now recognizing this reflects a step up in our organic growth compared to what weve seen so far year-to-date it's important to note that were really not counting on much from a macro perspective but clearly well have easier comps in Aero PMT as well as in TS.
So lets look at each of the businesses just a couple of highlights in terms of the revenue outlook for each of the businesses.
Sales are expected for Aero to be up 2% to 3% with more muted declines in Defense &amp; Space more than offset by commercial OE and aftermarket growth.
We also expect margin rates in line with Aeros third quarter levels.
ACS sales are expected to be up 6% to 8% largely driven by the Intermec acquisition and mid single digit organic growth in ESS.
Were planning for sales in HPS and BSD to be approximately flat for reasons weve already discussed.
And with the full quarter of Intermec we anticipate approximately a 100 basis points of dilution to ACSs segment margin rates in the quarter.
So their margins are expected to be down slightly on a year-over-year basis.
PMT is expected to be up 8% to 10% on the top line.
Were expecting mid single digit organic growth in UOP well also lap as we said the Thomas Russell acquisition at the end of October.
On the advance material side were expecting a return to organic growth driven primarily by increased production rates in R&amp;C and also in floorings on a year-over-year basis.
And for TS terrific organic growth with sales expected to be up 7% to 10% driven by new launches continued turbo gas penetration and flat or slightly better EU light vehicle production rates on a year-over-year basis.
Now were also expecting for TS that margins are going to be similar to third quarter levels which will benefit -- with the benefits of the ongoing operational improvement of friction materials that we referenced earlier.
EPS for the quarter for the fourth quarter we expect to be in the range of $1.17 to $1.22 assuming an approximate 32% tax rate in the quarter or a 3 % headwind from tax on a year-over-year basis.
When you normalize for tax using our full-year expected rate of 26.5% earnings are expected to be up 9% to 14% in the fourth quarter consistent with our year-to-date tend.
Lets now move to Slide 13 and just spend a minute before we shift our focus to next year to make sure were working off the same baseline for 2013.
Again starting on the left Slide number 13 you can see roughly where we think were going to end up for sales at both the Honeywell level as well as each of our businesses and again excluding the impact of D&amp;S weve seen solid organic sales growth from each of our businesses this year.
In the middle we have segment margins which were expecting to be up roughly 60 basis points on a recorded basis or roughly 80 basis points if you exclude the M&amp;A to approximately 16.2% for the year.
And as a reminder this is above the low end of our 2014 long-term targets and in fact getting there a year early.
Finally on the right side of Slide number 13 we have the updated EPS guidance of $4.90 to $4.95 and weve shown it in two ways.
First on a recorded basis but also on a tax adjusted basis where weve normalized the quarters to 26.5% which is a reminder with our 2012 full-year rate as well as our expected full-year rate here in 2013.
So as you can see earnings in either case $4.90 to $4.95 reflect an impressive 9% to 11% year-over-year increase.
It's also important to note that with the improvement in discount rates and higher returns on pension plan assets we currently expect our funded status for our U.S.
plans to be near 100% assuming rates hold at our current levels through yearend so another bit of good news.
So well theres still a lot of work to do obviously to ensure we deliver 2013.
Our 2014 planning is coming together.
We wanted to take a few minutes today just to walk you through the framework that weve been thinking about with known headwinds and tailwinds and the discussion of the macro environment on both slides 14 and 15.
So if we start with slide 14 this is our high level planning framework with known headwinds on the left and tailwinds on the right.
Now Im not going to go through each of these individually.
Ill actually think both is probably well understood and expected but I do think it's important to highlight what we feel is a balanced framework both on a macro basis as well as operationally.
So for example just to demonstrate that balance; what were expecting a continued sluggish global economy.
Were also going to benefit from a very strong pipeline of new product introductions.
In our long cycle businesses well sequestration will be a drag on D&amp;S next year UOP backlog provides a strong tailwind for growth.
From a corporate perspective we expect higher pension income in 2014 driven by the higher asset returns that weve had this year as well as the Verizon discount rates thats going to provide capacity for further restructuring.
And then the potential in the center of the page as you can see the potential for one time gains could also provide further capacity for repositioning actions.
So again thats the benefit we think of a balanced portfolio and a balanced framework.
It allows us to continue to outperform even in a challenging macro environment make the right decisions for each of our businesses over the long-term to maximize the value they provide for shareholders.
So now lets take a look at our summary views of 2014 for each of the four businesses on Slide 15.
You can see weve laid out some of our key assumptions.
In Aero on the commercial side were expecting aftermarket to be up in line with flight hours while OE growth is expected to slow modestly on top of a very robust 2013 base.
As we mentioned in our defense update were expecting U.S.
DOD budgets to be a down again next year but importantly were benefiting from growth in the international markets where budgets are growing.
For ACS were expecting the short cycle improvement weve seen here in the second half of 2013 to continue led by new product introductions continued residential strength and also a modest pickup in non-residential segments.
We are also expecting improvements in the global industrial market as the inventories are low in the short cycle businesses and customers are beginning to invest on the process automation side supported by the orders and code activity that were seeing this year.
In PMT our strong backlog position at both UOP and advanced materials support a favorable outlook.
Well be monitoring us at the global markets in advanced materials but well benefit from higher production volumes in both R&amp;C as well as in flooring products.
And finally for transportation in 2014 which is whether obviously the macro challenges in Europe and other regions TS is poised for growth assuming slightly better European light vehicle production the acceleration of turbo penetration globally and of course new launches which will continue to drive growth with volume leverage and operational efficiencies delivering also strong sales conversion.
So standing back again for our view of 2014 it clearly suggests well see an acceleration of top line growth in 2014 setting us up for another good year.
And as Dave mentioned were currently going through our annual planning process.
We look forward to providing you more details regarding our outlook for 2014 during our December outlook call.
So finally before we go to Q&amp;A let me just summarize what weve talked about on Slide 16.
With the third quarter behind us we demonstrated once again that even in the phase of macro uncertainty and challenging external factors we can deliver on commitments.
The balanced nature of the portfolio the cultural transformation reflecting in our execution the relentless drive to be better in everything we do has become the hallmark of Honeywell and further evidence that our playbook is working.
As we turn our attention to 2014 weve recognized theres much uncertainty in the end markets and probably as much as there was a year ago.
However we are seeing signs of short cycle improvement and in some cases acceleration where our long-cycle businesses continue to build backlog.
So regardless of the variability in the global macros you can expect us doing what we always do.
We're going to keep investing in our future focus on both sales growth and margin expansion delivering high ROI CapEx investments bolt-on acquisitions funding and healthy restructuring pipeline and introducing new products and innovations to the marketplace.
These things take time but you've seen it for awhile and they're clearly evidenced in the performance that we're delivering.
So with one more quarter in the books let's go to Q&amp;A.
Thanks Dave.
Zach we'd now like to open up the call for our first question.
The floor is now open for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Thank you.
Our first question is coming from Scott Davis with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning guys and Elena.
Hi Scott.
These slides are great Slide 11 in particular I wish all our companies did that so it's very helpful.
So not a lot of questions on the businesses but one thing that isn't clear is that your cash balances build and I think you're going to be  you're up to around $5.5 billion of cash in the balance sheet and you didn't really want to buy stock at $65 and now you're at $85.
So what can you do to ensure that we're not having this conversation in a year and you're $7.5 billion in cash in the balance sheet Dave not to put any pressure on you? Well it's the first time I've ever gotten this question Scott so I guess I have to think about it a little bit.
The answer is still the same is there's a lot of opportunities out there being it opportunistic with the cash in order to be able to really advance the future Honeywell is always the top of mind for us.
And I can promise you I'm not going to blow it whatever it is and it's nice to have it there as a potential enhancer.
And we're going to continue to be opportunistic on our share repurchase.
You've seen us repurchase a bunch of shares this year.
The M&amp;A we've done I feel really good about and we're just going to keep doing that along with making sure that we pay a strong competitive dividend.
Dave anything you want to add? Probably just  maybe a couple numbers Dave to just add what you said.
I mean we bought 10 million shares year-to-date.
I'd say we're probably on track for $1 billion of share buyback for the full year.
I think that's a reasonable number to anticipate.
So it's fairly significant activity.
We'll continue to stay balanced in how we look at that Scott.
Okay fair enough.
We'll move on to the next question.
Scott I would also say it's nice to have a fully funded pension plan.
Yes.
You've got a lot of good things going on but anyways.
Dave Anderson you mentioned in your closing comments the signs of short-cycle improvement.
Can you give us a little granularity on that maybe by geography or really what you're  more specifically what you're seeing? Sure.
So maybe just talk a little bit about both Scott those sales and orders.
For ESS we saw pretty good growth in both U.S.
in Europe and in China in the quarter but we saw particularly good growth in their order patterns.
So the short-cycle pattern we had 1% organic order growth in ACS and I'll talk about total ACS; 1% growth in the first quarter organic 3% in the second quarter 5% in third quarter.
So really we are seeing that pattern and we've talked about this some that if you did have a need to covers it's really coming about in our Life Safety business in ECC in the security business and to some degree it's getting a bill and mobility.
That's a little bit lumpy because of some of our very very large orders they've received in large shipments.
So that's a very positive.
You know the TS numbers those look very good overall.
So we see an accelerating pattern there and again turbo penetration global life vehicle production as well as obviously the benefit of launches.
So we're going to see that trend continue.
We see that as a very nice lift off if you will for 2014 and that's behind the competence in the statement that Dave and I both made with respect to an accelerating growth outlook for 2014.
So we're very very pleased at the underlying fundamentals somewhat massed obviously when you look at the total on revenues in the third quarter.
We talked about the guidance et cetera but really Intermec is the primary thing there and the second thing is D&amp;S but when you look at the underlying fundamentals it's quite encouraging.
Okay.
Just a clarification Slide 12 where you said up 3% or 5% organic for 4Q is that including Defense or excluding Defense? That includes.
Okay good.
All right I'll pass it on.
Thanks guys.
We'll go next to Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Hi Nigel.
I agree with Scott great detail on the slides.
Just wanted to  just to clarify Advanced Materials Dave you call that as accelerating production volumes in both floorings and also R&amp;C and yet on the '14 framework you call that as a headwind.
So just wanted to dig into what you see for '14 within Advanced Materials? Well I think what we mentioned there in terms of the framework really was the markets the Advanced Materials market.
We think those are going to continue to be somewhat challenged whereas I mean particularly we're talking there largely about the flooring markets as well as the Resins and Chemicals markets Nigel.
On the other hand we see the benefit we think of improved production volumes in 2014 helping to offset that.
So what we've really flagged here is we think that the macro environment for the business is going to continue to be challenging.
Understood.
So you expect to gain [ph] share within that framework? I think we continue to perform pretty well we think in terms of our  getting our share of demand.
We have as you know a pipeline of very exciting new products.
The timing of those in terms of actual introduction is still TBD in terms of probably not a significant benefit in terms of 2014 but you're certainly going to see the benefit of that in 2015 as we transition particularly in floorings to the new molecule of products.
Okay great.
And coming back to Slide 14 it certainly appears that you got more tailwinds and headwinds into next year and the short-cycle acceleration ACS is really encouraging.
Do you think '14  I mean obviously you're going to give us more detail in December but do you think '14 going to be in line with a sort of trend let's say 3% to 5% organic growth type range? I'd say it's tough to put numbers on it.
We're just going through the AOP planning but I don't think those are crazy numbers to think about.
Okay great.
And just finally the UOP backlog continues to grow $2.9 billion versus $2.7 billion.
Just curious where are you seeing the project activity within UOP? And just the annuity question on currency is there any benefit from the weaker dollar within that backlog number? I think the benefit on and we can come to the currency point in just a moment but the backlog is really pretty broad based in terms of where we see it building.
We have yet to Around the world.
Around the world.
We really have not seen.
There is a lot as we've talked about Nigel this is true for both Process Solutions as well as UOP but UOP would be the earlier and that if you will the written proposal cycle.
We haven't seen a significant expansion yet related to U.S.
GAAP but the proposed projects and the committing is in process.
So the pipeline is very very attractive there.
But overall if you look at what we're seeing today in UOP and now beginning to see in Process Solutions I referenced the strength of the order rate in Process Solutions on the project side during the quarter is really pretty broad based.
David anything you would add to that regionally? Yes I'd say to Dave's point on the global expansion effort we see it around the world and with oil at 100 bucks and the disparity in gas prices between the U.S.
and the rest of the world I think you're going to continue to see a lot of activity around the world especially as developed regions tend not to invest and emerging markets or high growth regions will.
That dynamic looks pretty good for us everywhere.
In terms of currency impact in the backlog no nothing Nothing stands out.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
We'll go next to Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
Hey Steve.
So just looking at PMT here were going to kind of finish the last after a dramatic run from a low single digit margin to now high teens.
We are now kind of going to finish out three years here stuck in the kind of 18% to 19% range.
Its obviously good; its being growing wouldnt stuck maybe is a little bit too aggressive the term but  But you do where we were going.
When -- what's the timing I know you got a lot of investment going on there there is an acquisition that is diluted a bit what is the timing of this being I think -- I had used the term hockey stick at some point to kind of the next when is the next wave here of margin expansion? I mean we got to have to wait a couple of years or is that something that could come sooner than that? We will go through that a lot more to our March Investor Day but I would say for a high end specialty company business like PMT the prospects to be in at 19% margin that be in the ceiling is not something I would accept.
So I feel pretty good about their ability to expand.
Consistent with what weve said in the past weve got a couple of key plans coming online towards the end of 14 beginning of 15 and that will have an impact because those are -- those plans are already full we have to build them and the return to those can be really good.
Right.
So I guess just doing the math on that I guess that kind of accretion from that can be pretty quickly after those things come online or is there -- Im not a chemical analyst so I mean are there like start up issues that means the benefits lag significantly from when those things come online? Well we will go through all of that on Investor Day but I certainly wouldnt anticipate start up issue.
We are doing everything we can to make sure it doesnt happen.
Right.
Okay.
And then I guess just on the Dave Anderson on the pension tailwind for next year can you maybe just give a little bit more color around the magnitude there and then you bumped up the restructuring for next year I guess from 90 million to 125 million is there any visibility on kind of whats -- because some of this restructuring ideas is a little longer tail to it does that mean kind of the benefits for 15 are now kind of trending up a little bit? Yes well I think so.
I hope so.
I mean that certainly was what weve been intend to do Steve is go through the redeployment of some tailwind that we have as a result of favorability as I mentioned on pension as well as hopefully other gains just continue this track record and I think its impressive and we like that chart showing that relationship between segment margin and what we built in terms pension benefit.
With our repositioning benefit with respect to pension I think were probably somewhere in the neighborhood of that $50 million in terms of year-over-year.
I think its a good number right now for preliminary planning purposes that is if you just took current discount rates current rates of return obviously Steve these numbers move around.
But we think thats reflective of the kind of capacity that we think were going to be able to have as a result of that.
Right.
Youve got $50 million there youve got $125 million bucks in restructuring so youre -- there arent too many are there any major headwinds from a non-fundamental perspective lining up? It doesnt seem like there is? From what Steve? You know headwinds because these are tailwinds for next year 50 ? No we dont see for example though -- I dont think any other below the line headwinds at currently that we would say again to keep saying this but December as you know we provided fairly thorough full some review of our expectations and assumptions for the next year.
So we will take you through that but as of right now there is nothing that we see.
Right.
So thats almost $0.20 of tailwinds of limited headwinds just right after that? Yes.
You can take it that way.
Hey Steve can I give you just a comment back on the PMT margins? Sure.
2003 PMT segment margins 4.3 2006 12.3 2010 15.8 and mid point of guidance for this year 18.6.
Im sorry Dave what was that again? So anyway thats just connecting the dots over that time period.
Yes I have the model in front of me.
I can look at that.
Im not going to say congratulations.
Just wanted to make sure were on the same page.
We are.
Thanks.
(Indiscernible).
All right.
I am going to throughout now.
Thank you.
And well go next to Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
I cant top that but Im going to go to the balance sheet and boring for a second.
If you do net cash Mr.
Anderson I believe youve actually used a couple of $100 million through the first three quarters of the year and you can see the growth in commercial papers up a bit.
Now Im sure some of this is due to timing but some of this also is due to elimination of a lot of liabilities.
So if you step back for a moment as you work down all these off-balance sheet obligations and you kind of got a specialist well under control.
How do you think about sort of what your risk profile is from a financial point of view? Well I think the backdrop is it always has to be done I think Howard against the backdrop of the global economy and the U.S.
economy and just this state if you will of financial markets which are obviously today still Dave I think thats (indiscernible) uncertain periods now and I think  Assuming is your question the economic outlook or is it kind of a solvency liquidity type question? No it's more what you want to think about in terms of leverage going forward because in some ways the obligations that have impeded your cash flow are being worked down and do you think -- I mean so we could think about a more normal leverage of -- level of leverage because these off balance sheet things like pension for example are really things of -- are very well managed today.
And you can put a little more leverage to work or do you want to stay conservative as youre kind of talking about with the risks in the financial markets? Well it's a good news story because what's happening is -- well first of all again if I could just finish there quickly the backdrop is one of macro and we all know what thats like.
Weve lived through that weve lived through the  Were living through it.
And are living through it.
So I think thats number one.
So I think prudence is just number one.
I think you just have to be very very cautious in that respect.
Number two your point is very well taken which is the strength of a company and the continued strong performance in execution is reflected in improved outlook in terms of our credit worthiness.
Basically what were doing is were growing back into our AA2 rating okay as a result of that and it's both again operation performance as well as the smart we think funding that weve done on the pension enabling that as well as managing other liabilities.
So Howard what it gives us over the next two to three years is additional flexibility and I think Dave is very clear in this in terms of what the actual deployment of that capacity and the cash is very much TBD.
It gives us a lot of opportunity and if you look at our track record it's one of being we think very smart and very disciplined in how we deploy capital in balance.
And were just going to continue to do that.
But clearly we have more goodness coming through now which represents more upside to shareholders as a result.
Yeah.
And then just to take that balance point and Dave talked about it early in his comments.
How are you thinking about pushing of the various business units in terms of giving them capital for either new projects or for incremental product development.
Have you changed sort of the hurdles Dave in any way with this uncertain environment? Now I do well first of all our hurdles have always been high just because somebody can do a calculation that says [whack] is 9.3% now versus 10.1% a year ago; thats really not relevant when youre investing in 20% IRR projects and when we take a look at our internal investments whether it's R&amp;D or CapEx we continue stay disciplined in how we invest and we continue to invest more because if the company does better well theres just a lot more opportunities.
The culture is getting better and better at being able to forward thinking and where those opportunities might be.
It's better when it comes to actually executing on those and making sure they happen.
So no we never shorted the businesses.
It's been part of our philosophy from the beginning about having a full pipeline of great ideas that diversify of opportunity and we're sticking to our knitting on that one.
Thank you gentlemen.
Thank you Howard.
We'll go next to Steven Winoker with Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Thanks and good morning.
Hi.
Hi.
So I wouldn't ask this question if you guys hadn't joined the elite ranks of operational companies over time but it goes back now to the supply chain comments you made for Defense &amp; Space.
Now of course that's in cap [ph] and you've often talked about that but I'd like to get a better understanding of how you still managed to get surprised by your supply chain in the quarter relative to sort of tasks and contingencies and what really happened and how do you know that that won't happen again or at least from a visibility standpoint how we improve the processes and what's really happened there? I assume there's a left-handed compliment in there Steve.
The first part.
On the operating performance.
Yes.
Yes as you continue to push the envelope on getting better and better when it comes to improving supply chain meaning less inventory overall while improving delivery it's kind of that old Japanese analogy that as you lower the water level which we have with inventory and aerospace well there are rocks that get exposed.
And sometimes the rock surprises you a bit.
And in this case we did get surprised and it's one of those where I would say I wish we had done a better job with it and I know Tim would say that that we should have seen it coming but we didn't.
So this is all fixable.
The process is fixable.
The sales are recoverable and it will happen and it's just another rock that we have to fix and it will happen.
Okay.
And then on the comps for the fourth quarter you talked about them getting easier that's true expect for I guess ACS which was plus 4% last year anyway organic.
So a little more color excluding Intermec obviously for what's giving you confidence on the part of comps still showing the kind of growth you're talking about? Well it helps  I mean as you know we track short-cycle orders weekly down to very more business levels to get a sense for what's going on and we could see the orders.
I would Sorry Elena.
It's what I mentioned earlier and you may have the data again but it's what I mentioned earlier Steve in terms of the progression of what we've seen in the organic short-cycle orders rates of ACS and particularly ESS so that's really what gives us the indication of a stronger revenue organic revenue growth outlook.
And Europe specifically within all that? That's been a lot better.
We mentioned that on the call last time also that we started to see that and it continues in the quarter.
Yes.
I was going to say on the orders rate particularly.
And for Europe I just [indiscernible] the TS decline in the fourth quarter of last year was 8% organic right so there's a big pickup in TS relative to Europe.
There is a big pick up in UOP year-over-year  UOP in the fourth quarter of last year so it was down 4% organic.
We're anticipating rash [ph] returns and mid to high single digit in the fourth quarter.
And then of course we talked about Defense &amp; Space declines moderating at the end of our piece of it from a long-cycle perspective.
That's really helpful.
And then just last question on friction and the plant closure and the turnaround I mean how far along would you say are you in the broader turnaround and how you think about that part of the portfolio? Any changes as it starts to put up better performance.
Well the turnaround has been substantial because just the closing of that plant in France was a really nice headache to be done with so there's a natural pickup from that.
The investment in the new facilities is going great and we expect it to be a tailwind for us next year.
Great thanks a lot.
We'll go next to Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Jeff.
Hi.
I have a quick little cleanup question or two here.
I think we may be discussed this once or twice on previous calls but I'm still a little perplexed by the weakness you're seeing in energy retrofit.
The lighting companies are seeing strong activity.
The Intermec company is seem to be seeing decent activity so there's something going on with your mix of customer or something that would kind of explain that the parent disconnect? The U.S.
is tended to slow down just because of well everything you've been reading about and concerns about budgets everywhere.
If you take a look though at Building Solutions performance versus all our big peers in the same business we've actually outperformed there.
And so all in all it's a good story relative to competition but we sure wouldn't mind if the sales were stronger.
All right.
And Dave Anderson pointed out the ACS order acceleration kind of 1% 3% 5% kind of Q1 Q2 Q3 but was September okay? How did September act and is there any early read on October and [indiscernible]? Actually September for us was very good so we actually exceeded that 5% in the September month so it was a very very strong finish that we saw.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Zach we have time for just one more question.
We'll take our last question from John Inch with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Bring up the rear here.
You don't have to laugh.
It's saving the best for last John.
Thank you.
Thank you.
That deserves a compliment to you.
That will come last too.
Okay.
Dave Anderson were there accrual adjustments in any manner that benefited margins? I mean obviously we're very robust and just trying to think about this technically? Nothing We took restructuring charges.
Yes the repositioning charges which are below the line.
But in terms of the segment margin numbers John nothing significant on a year-over-year basis so there's nothing really that would have driven the comparables on a year-over-year basis third quarter 2012 to third quarter 2013.
Then China in the emerging markets Dave Cote you called out sort of continuing China's strength.
Some companies and other industries have sort of really seen slowing in emerging markets broadly defined in the quarter.
Did you  could you give still a little bit more color on what your experience was? I mean it sounds like that didn't happen.
I'm just curious if you saw the evidence of this that would collaborate that? No I'd say we're doing fine and what we refer to is high growth regions and I think that China is going to continue in the world and for us and I'd say it's our ability to just increase our reach in every one of these countries whether it's products or sale and distribution just doing all those basics that cause you to establish foundation in a country.
So yes we're doing fine there.
We'll continue to look for that as opportunity for us.
Only 55% of our sales are outside the U.S.
today and there's 75% of world GDP outside the U.S.
and there's plenty of room left for us to grow there.
I know September kind of fade that you saw I'm sorry.
You didn't see any kind of fading in September with respect to your overseas end markets or? No.
Just then lastly you've put your planning framework the uncertainties surrounding nonresidential recovery.
You guys do have a fair amount of exposure to those markets and [indiscernible] it sort of seems like recovery has been pushed up but I'm curious because you operate in some interesting segments.
What are you seeing with respect to nonresidential activity today in North America as it pertains to Honeywell and is there any evidence of some green shoots that could be sort of manifesting themselves next year? Well the way I describe it if we go all the way back to the recession and we talked about v-in v-out [ph] slow-in slow-out and nonresi was one of those slow-ins so it's been a slow-out.
And I think we mentioned on the call last time we've seen an increase in quote activity.
I can't say that we've really seen a big spike in orders as a result of that yet but I think that is one that's going to come.
It's just difficult to predict what the timing of it will be.
So I think all-in-all it's just not certain yet when that's going to show up.
We'll know a lot more in two or three months of course.
Okay.
Thank you.
Congratulations David Cote on your margin performance.
Thank you John.
Quite impressive.
Thanks.
Well that obviously concludes the call for today.
I wanted to thank you for your patience and also just turn the call back over to Dave Cote for your final remarks.
Thanks.
You've come to expect from us consistently in our outperformance and were pleased of course to be able to do that again this quarter.
The execution of our consistent strategy in that constant seed planting that we always talk about having a great portfolio to grow with continuously improving our internal processes and just further development of our performance culture these are things that are going to continue to service well as we look to also outperform in the future.
And I could promise you we are going to continue to invest around the world in seed planting to make sure weve that diversity of opportunity and its essential to our future success.
So thanks for listening.
Thank you.
This does conclude todays teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Honeywell's fourth quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
At this time all participants have been placed in a listen only mode and the floor will be open for your questions following the presentation.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Elena Doom Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you Zack.
Welcome to Honeywell's fourth quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Here with me today are Chairman and CEO Dave Cote and Senior Vice President and CFO Dave Anderson.
This call and webcast including any non-GAAP reconciliations are available on our website at honeywell.com/investor.
Note that elements of today's presentation do contain forward-looking statements that are based on our best view of the world and of our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change and we would ask that you interpret them in that light.
We do identify the principal risks and uncertainties that affect our performance in our Form 10-K and other SEC filings.
This morning we will review our financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2013 as well as share with you our guidance for the fourth and full year 2014.
Finally as always we will leave time for your questions.
With that I will turn the call over to Dave Cote.
Thanks Elena.
Good morning everyone.
As I am sure you have seen by now Honeywell delivered another good quarter capping off a terrific 2013.
We are benefiting from our diverse portfolio and that continued focus on new products and geographic expansion plus our ability to effectively manage and what continues to be slow growth macro environment.
The importance of a balanced portfolio was evident last year as it helped us to offset some of the headwinds we faced in Defense and Space and Advanced Materials over the course of the year.
Most importantly the businesses all executed very well delivering margin expansion in every business last year As for the fourth quarter it's very encouraging to see sales growth 8% up 5% organically with organic growth better than expected across all four businesses.
We continue to drive margin expansion up 50 basis points year-over-year for an impressive 70 basis points when you exclude M&amp;A and we delivered pro forma earnings per share with all of $1.24 $0.02 above the high-end of our range so we are starting this year with positive momentum struck by order rates continue to get better and there were pockets of acceleration in the commercial aftermarket ESS Advanced Materials and Turbo all suggesting a modest improvement in end market conditions overall.
We are also seeing order momentum out of our long-cycle businesses building on the robust backlog has positioned us well heading into this year with ACS solutions orders up strong double digits and our defense backlog up about 20% year-over-year due to strong international wins.
We are also increasingly confident in our outlook because of the smart gain deployment actions we took in the fourth quarter.
As you saw from our press release we are able to proactively fund restructuring and other actions fully deploying the $195 million pre-tax or $0.16 EPS gain from the sale of B/E Aerospace shares in the fourth quarter.
You will recall we received about 6 million shares prior to the Consumable Solutions business sale in 2008 and we sold 2.6 million of those shares in that fourth quarter.
We also sold an incremental 1.5 million shares in this first quarter and that will yield about a $0.10 gain that we will similarly deploy with repositioning and other actions.
So in total a pretax gain of approximately $300 million; $200 million in the fourth quarter and $100 million in the first quarter with some more remaining in the bank.
Restructuring benefits have been an important driver of our productivity engine as it will continue to drive benefits in 2014 and beyond.
Dave will take you through some of the details in a moment but the projects funded in the fourth quarter alone are estimated to yield about $50 million of benefits in 2015 with a full run rate savings of over $100 million.
We are being proactive about keeping that pipeline full and as such we are planning to fund additional projects in the first quarter with the gain that we will have from those B/E share sales.
We think these actions position us well for further margin expansion over the next five years.
In the fourth quarter we took the opportunity to accelerate a $50 million charge related to environmental matters at Lake Onondaga in upstate New York.
Minimizing future environmental headwinds from this site by proactively seeking agreements for the completion of both dredging and capping activities based on our ability to complete the dredging portion a year early and reducing the overall cost of the project.
We think this sets us up very well over the coming five years as we will begin to show moderation in ongoing environmental charges in the out years.
We also offset the loss on sale of Friction Materials due to deployment of that B/E share gain.
As you saw earlier this month we agreed to sell Friction Materials which we expect to close sometime in the second half of the year.
We think this transaction will help our Turbo business focus on their differentiated technologies and long-term growth outlook.
While we think it's prudent to remain cautious on the overall macro environment we are also increasingly confident in our 2014 outlook based on the momentum we saw in the fourth quarter.
So for the year more of what you have come to expect strong sales conversion and double-digit earnings growth and strong cash flow.
We are going to continue to remain flexible and while managing our cost is important we are also focused on supporting sales growth and investing in high ROI capacity in PMT new products and technologies and growth regions.
Our strong backlog in new product pipeline are setting us up for a multi-year cycle of outperformance.
For example Honeywell's Wi-Fi Smart Thermostat with voice control won the Envisioneering Innovation &amp; Design Award for 2014 at the International Consumer Electronics Show.
This latest connected home innovation employs new voice technology allowing people to simply saw hello thermostat to activate and control their home's temperature and Ive got to say it is pretty cool.
I have got it in my own house and it's pretty neat because if nobody else is listening at least your thermostat does what you ask it to.
And as everyone at Honeywell knows I am extremely optimistic about where we can take our proprietary cloud-based voice control solutions.
We are focused on providing a more productive and enhanced customer experience and our guys keep getting better and smarter with a bunch of new stuff in the pipeline.
You can expect to see lots of cool innovations at the March Investor Day where each of the businesses will highlight a number of new products and roadmaps for future growth and productivity.
We are focused on delivering 2014 but we will also be issuing new five-year targets through 2018 that we think will continue to differentiate Honeywell.
Our seed planting for the future great positions in good industries our strength of execution and the power of One Honeywell will allow us to deliver on those targets and it continues to outperform again.
So with that I will turn it over to Dave.
Thanks Dave.
Good morning everybody.
Thanks for participating in this morning's call.
Let me start on slide number 4 the 4Q13 results.
As you can see from the numbers we delivered at or above guidance on every metric in the quarter.
Sales came in at $10.4 billion above the high-end of our guidance range.
They grew an impressive 8% on a reported basis 5% on an organic basis.
The strength we saw at the year-end was broad-based as Dave said with better than expected results really across each of the segments.
We will take you through those details in just a moment.
On a regional basis organic sales were up 5% in the U.S.
up 4% in Europe and we had organic growth of 13% in the fourth quarter in China.
Segment profit growth and margin expansion were both strong.
Segment profit increased 12% margins expanded 50 basis points to 16.1% and if you exclude M&amp;A which of course was largely the impact of Intermec segment margins expanded 70 basis points with growth in all four of the businesses.
Productivity continues to be a key driver of course offsetting inflation and also offsetting the continued investments that we make for growth.
When you move below the line which we are going to detail further on the next slide you will see that our gain from the B/E share was fully deployed through higher restructuring environmental charges as well as the recognized loss on the sale of Friction.
Pro forma earnings per share which excludes the impact of the fourth quarter mark-to-market adjustment was $1.24 an increase of 13% on a year-over-year basis.
Now the fourth quarter reported EPS was $1.19 up $0.32 from last year which you will recall included roughly last year a $1 billion pretax mark-to-market.
This year in the U.S.
we ended up with no MTM adjustment as the potential gain which would have occurred was offset by the proactive adoption of the latest pension mortality tables specifically the latest 2013 BB projection scale for those technical pension experts out there.
So what remained was an adjustment in our international plans primarily due to lower interest rates in Germany or about $50 million pretax or $0.05 earnings per share.
In the U.S.
we ended the year with a discount rate of 4.89% a return on assets of 23.1% which contributed to 100% funded status globally in our pension plans at year-end.
Now for the full year 2014 we are now expecting about $130 million pension income lift in 2014 compared to 2013 based on those better than expected return on assets.
We expect this lift to generally be offset with higher OPEB and repositioning expenses over the course of the year so that's the same as we guided when we spoke to you in December.
Finally free cash flow in the quarter of $1.4 billion represented 142% free cash flow conversion and brought the full year conversion to just under 100%.
So with that let's go to the one-time gains and deployment.
Slide number five gives you a little bit more detailed view of the deployment of the B/E share gain.
As you can see and as weve said that $0.16 per share gain from the sale of 2.6 million shares in the fourth quarter equals the amount recognized for restructuring actions corrective environmental remedies and the sale of Friction.
Restructuring represented about half of the gain deployment and building on some of the themes you have heard from us before and you will hear more about it in March at our Investor Day these restructuring actions really support our future performance.
On average the projects included in the fourth quarter have a little longer paybacks than our historic average but still very good ROIs that provide a modest tailwind for 2014 earnings really again supporting the confidence that we have in our guidance range but that benefit will roughly double to approximately $50 million of PBT or EBIT in 2015 with further benefits in 2016 as we realize run rate savings from these actions of approximately $110 million per year.
Next you can see the incremental environmental charge.
Dave referenced earlier.
I am not going to into detail in this.
Again it's the proactive agreement that we sought on the ongoing Lake Onondaga remediation.
We are now likely to complete as he said dredging activities of year earlier.
As a result we got better visibility on the cost profile going forward and that supports the production and cost efficiencies that leads to moderation in our out year expenses over the next five years.
Finally the recently announced sale of Friction Materials to Federal-Mogul which results in a $0.04 loss in the quarter the transaction is expected to close as we said in the second half of the year and until then of course the Friction business will remain part of our full-year 2014 outlook.
Finally based on the roughly 1.5 million B/E shares we sold in the first quarter so quarter to-date we expect an additional $0.10 per share gain that we intend to deploy further to restructuring and other actions similar to what we have in the fourth quarter.
Overall these actions again will help position the company very well for future earnings growth.
Let's go next to Slide 6 and talk a little bit about the full-year results 2013.
Sales up 4% 2% organic to $39.1 billion of course the reported sales reflect the favorable impact of acquisitions primarily Thomas Russell Intermec and also Rae Systems.
Segment profit for the year up 8% double the growth in sales demonstrating again impressive conversion translating to 70 basis points of margin expansion to 16.3% really terrific terrific performance continuing that track record at Honeywell.
All of this resulted in pro forma earnings per share of $4.97 up 11% over 2012.
Again another year of double-digit growth.
You recall we set the bar high for 2013 and we delivered again above the high end of the range.
Again our reported EPS for the year reflects a $0.05 mark-to-market adjustment related to international plans as I discussed with you earlier.
Finally for the full year free cash flow at $3.8 billion was slightly above our guidance driven by the strong finish to the year despite an increase in CapEx in 2013 and a lot of that of course going to the initial stages of capacity expansion for PMT and more about that later as we talk about 2014.
Now let's go through the highlights for the fourth quarter and the full year for each of the segments starting with Slide 7 Aerospace.
Sales growth turned positive as you can see for Aero in the quarter up 3% organic at the high-end of our guidance range.
I would like to take a minute just before we get into each of the components of Aero just to walk you through some one-time items that netted within the quarter within the Aero segment.
Aero recognized a significant IP litigation settlement which resulted in a royalty gain in the fourth quarter of $63 million pretax.
We have line of sight to the timing of this in the quarter and we proactively insured timing was aligned with roughly $68 million of BGA OE payments.
Both of these items impacted sales and segment profit.
They were contemplated when we give our outlook for aerospace in December so they net and literally have no or de minimis impact in terms of the reported numbers in terms of the segment profit and segment margin numbers for Aero in the quarter.
With that background turning to the commercial businesses.
Commercial OE sales were flat in the quarter however up 12% if you exclude the impact of the OE payments that I mentioned earlier.
We saw the continued benefit of higher OE build rates in large air transport and strong sales to high value business jet platforms.
That would include Gulfstream and Dassault which both had good double-digit numbers.
Commercial aftermarket sales were up 5% in the quarter supported by favorable flight hour trends both in ATR and also robust repairs modifications and upgrades or RMU sales in BGA partially offset by fewer engine maintenance events in the quarter.
Notable in the quarter was the improvement in ATR spare which we expect to continue in terms of a run rate in 2014.
Now in defense and space.
Sales were up 2% but down 3% excluding the royalty gain in the quarter that I mentioned earlier.
Defense continues to be impacted by planned program ramp downs and delays in the U.S.
partially offset by growth in the international markets.
However on the positive side as Dave referenced the backlog for defense was up significantly in 2013.
So a positive sign as we look forward to the next five years.
Ensuring the segment profit note that the higher royalties in defense and space were offset again by the BGA OE payments.
Aerospace margins expanded 50 basis points to 20.5% through the really good performance primarily due to productivity net of inflation and partially offset by investments for growth.
Now Tim is going to talk more about this in March at the Investor Day but the investments we are making in quality pursuits are resulting in big platform wins and growth for the future.
Let's turn now to ACS on slide eight automation and control.
ACS sales were up 10% in the quarter up 4% organic.
They finished the year very strong with continued acceleration in the products businesses combined with strong orders in the solutions businesses.
Let's just go through a little bit of color for the major components of ACS.
For ESS for energy safety and security the sales were up 18% reported 5% organic good growth in security life safety and ECC as a result of the U.S.
residential and retail chain strength I mentioned earlier and that's been a theme obviously new product introductions and also continued good geographic expansion at ACS.
Process solutions sales were up 1% in the quarter organic with continued good services growth more than offsetting large project completions.
However organic orders in the quarter were double-digit driving further backlog expansion at HPS and a robust project pipeline ahead.
As we saw throughout 2013 HPS had strong sales conversion as a result of higher margin backlog and the benefits of prior period repositioning actions.
And finally for the building solutions and distribution business BSD.
Sales were up 4% organic driven by higher sales in our America Security Distribution business.
While process solutions BSD order rates grew double-digits in the quarter primarily driven by a large energy win.
Moving to the margins ACS was down as expected 20 basis points to 15.3% in the quarter again consistent with our planning assumption primarily driven by the dilutive impact of Intermec acquisition and also the investments that ACS is making for growth partially offset by productivity net of inflation as well as ongoing repositioning benefits.
Now let's go to slide number nine look at Performance Materials and Technologies PMT.
You can see sales for PMT were $1.7 billion in the quarter up 12% reported up 9% organic and above the high-end of our guidance range driven primarily by strong results both in UOP as well as in flooring products.
This was also reflected the terrific segment profit growth up 30% in the quarter for PMT.
Just a couple of the details starting with UOP sales were up 24% up 17% organic driven by the addition of Thomas Russell and increased catalyst and gas processing sales again reflecting continued strong refining petrochemical and gas end markets.
The advanced materials sales were up 4% versus the prior year reflecting improved production volumes in Resins and Chemicals as well as foreign products resuming production in Metropolis.
Margins for PMT were up 210 basis points primarily due to the strong volumes but also productivity again partially offset by continued investments for growth.
Obviously another good year for PMT strengthened UOP more than offsetting the challenging year that we had in Advanced Materials.
Of course again a reminder we are investing in new capacity in UOP and also transition our existing footprint to support new technologies in Advanced Materials.
Then just a couple highlights on Transportation Systems on Slide 10 a strong finish for TS.
Sales growth accelerated up 15% organically in the fourth quarter driven by new launches and also higher global Turbo gas penetration.
Over the course of year we have seen Europe stabilize with modest improvement as we exited the year with high EU light vehicle production up about 3% in the fourth quarter versus a very challenging fourth quarter 2012 you would recall when sales were down 8% organically.
We also benefited from an uptick in China commercial vehicle demand driven partially by Euro 3 pre-buy activity in anticipation of the new emissions standards in 2014.
Segment margins for TS expanded 250 basis points to 13.6% primarily due to the strong material productivity and also volume leverage in Turbo.
Now let's turn to Slide 11 give you just an update and again a preview of 2014.
We continue to expect sales in the $40.3 billion to $40.7 billion range for the full year up 3% to 4% reported and approximately 3% organic.
Again this range is still predicated on a euro rate of roughly 1.30 at the high-end of the range closer to 1.35.
We also continue to expect segment margin expansion 30 basis points to 60 basis points up or 50 basis points to 80 basis points excluding M&amp;A.
Now embedded in that guidance includes roughly 25 million of additional repositioning benefits spread across the portfolio in 2014 from the actions that we took in the fourth quarter 2013 those that we just reviewed with you.
We are increasingly confident as Dave said our EPS framework of 5.35 to $5.55 representing 8% to 12% growth over 2013.
The full year growth linearity remains in line with our prior year results and the range also continues to be based on a full year tax rate of 26.5%.
Now we are expecting $3.8 billion to $4 billion of free cash flow up low to mid-single digits reflecting approximately $300 million of increased capital spending in 2014 compared to 2013.
Now before we turn to the first quarter on the next slide I just want to take a couple of minutes and talk about some of the bullet points on the bottom of this slide talk about some of the key planning assumptions for the year.
As you can see we are expecting roughly flat margins to start the year driven by two things the acquisition dilution associated with the Intermec acquisition and also low or high net margin Parex petrochemical catalyst shipments in UOP in the first quarter 2014 versus the very record shipments the tremendous record shipments that we had and we enjoyed in the first quarter of '13.
As we discussed earlier we will have about $0.10 gain reflecting the B/E shares sold in the first quarter which will be deployed for restructuring and other actions so no net income or EPS impact anticipated from those actions.
And as a result and as a reminder although we announced a divestiture of friction materials it remains in our full year sales and margin outlook for now and we will update you accordingly upon the close of the transaction but no significant impact to full year 2014 earnings guidance.
So with that background on the full-year let's talk about the first quarter little more details on the guide that I just referenced.
This is on slide 12 we are expecting sales to be in the range of $9.6 billion to $9.8 billion up 3% to 5% reported or 2% to 4% on an organic basis.
Segment margins are expected to be ex-M&amp;A up in the range of 20 to 40 basis points.
Let's look now at just highlights of each of the businesses starting with Aero for the first quarter.
We are expecting sales for Aero to be flat to slightly down with mid-single-digit growth in commercial offset by mid-single digit decline in defense.
On the commercial OE we expect lower regional sales to be a drag on the ATR OE in Q1 as well as for the year offset by healthy demand for mid to large cabin business aircraft in the BGA OE.
On the aftermarket are expecting ATR spares growth to be ahead of flight hours in the first quarter and the continued positive stories in terms of BGA RMUs to benefit the quarter as well as the full-year.
As for margins we expect a slight decline year-over-year in the first quarter for Aero primarily due to higher initial OE shipments due to new platform wins and higher mechanical OE sales in the quarter.
Aero margins are expected to pick up pace over the remainder of the year.
For the first quarter ACS sales are expected to be up 6% to 8% 2% to 4% organically with low single digit organic growth across each of the three businesses.
Now the macro environment is obviously looking moderately better as we start 2014 for ACS and we continue to see residential strength as well as modest improvement in the non-resi markets.
On the strong growths we saw at the end of 2013 for ACS both in the short and the long cycle gives us obviously increasing confidence.
And due to the acquisition dilution the ACS margin rate in the first quarter is expected to be flattish with margins again improving over the course the year driven by good growth as well as productivity.
PMT is expecting sales in the first quarter to be up 4% to 6% building on a terrific first quarter 2013 as well as obviously the strong performance we had in 2011 and '12 with PMT.
We are expecting another quarter of sales growth in UOP but as a reference the mix of shipments for UOP in the quarter will result in a headwind for the margin rate for PMT.
The advanced materials are expecting flattish sales primarily driven by unfavorable price raw spreads in R&amp;C and lower R-22 pricing in floorings which is why our new Solstice product suite is so important as it ramps up over the coming years.
Now as you know PMT is also continuing to run at full capacity levels at many of its plant and will start to benefit from increased capacity in 2015 but particularly pickup in 2016 on that front.
In transportation systems expecting more the same with sales in the first quarter up 5% to 7% driven by new platform launches continued Turbo gas and diesel penetration and also increased European light vehicle production rates on a year-over-year basis.
We expect TS margins to be up approximately 250 basis points primarily from volume leverage in Turbo as well as productivity gains.
EPS for Honeywell first quarter we expect to be in the range of $1.23 to $1 27 up 6% to 10% year-over-year when you normalize for the effective tax rate using our full year expected rate of 26.5% and again consistent with our normal EPS linearity profile.
So now let's move to slide 13 and just summarize before turning it back over to Elena for Q&amp;A.
So obviously 2013 is behind us.
We have demonstrated once again we can deliver on our commitments despite limited help from a macro environment.
It's a big reminder of the value of the diversified and balanced portfolio the strength of the positioning of that portfolio as well as the strength of the Honeywell playbook.
We set we met high expectations particularly as it relates to margin expansion and earnings growth.
All of the businesses as Dave said executed well with margins expanding in every business in 2013.
We achieved this while maintaining our focus in investment for the future doing the smart things that are going to deliver value for years to come.
As we said before we are planning for more of the same in 2014 modest top line growth but strong margin expansion.
We feel more confident in our outlook based on the signs of stability and the pockets of improvement in both the number of short and long cycle businesses but nothing as Dave said again at this time suggest anything less than conservative planning is prudent.
The playbook is working.
Our operating initiatives are having many landings in terms of results they are yielding setting up discernible multi-year tailwind.
Seed planting and repositioning benefits has become a hallmark of our execution story we are investing in more profitable growth as well as asset efficiency.
As you can see now we have significant restructuring savings in the bank for 2015.
In summary we are excited about what the year 2014 entails.
We knew that the finish line of the last five-year plan set back in 2010 we have got a lot of momentum across the portfolio leading up to our March 5 Investor Day.
We will be updating you there on our framework for 2014 unveiling our new five-year targets out for 2018 and also providing roadmaps by business on how each SPG president plans to drive for more profitable growth through more innovation and execution.
With that summary Elena let's go over to you for Q&amp;A.
Great.
Zack if you can open the line? We will take our first question? The floor is now opened for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Our first question comes from Scott Davis with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Guys one of the numbers that you gave China up 13% I think that's the best quarter you had China and gosh I think it's been quite a while.
I mean what can you give us some granularity? I don't think many of your competitors are going to see anything close to that so what's working for you in China and what's the visibility? I mean is there a turn there in the businesses you are selling into or is this more a short-term? Things feel pretty good for us in China Scott.
We did pretty well.
If you take a look at the total year and the fourth quarter and when we take a look at our short cycle order rates they are also looking pretty robust and it's pretty much across the board across all the businesses and I really think it has a lot to do with the focus we have on becoming the Chinese competitor.
This makes us a lot more local in everything we do and I think that's an economy that's going to continue to grow and grow for a long time and we have just been working very hard at positioning ourselves there to be successful.
I guess the natural follow-up to that is just that is this more of Honeywell specific or do you think that you are seeing actual turn in the overall industrial macro in China? I guess I would break it into the two pieces.
I am not sure always how reliable all those statistics are when you see industrial production and that kind of thing out of China so whether it's really good or really bad on the statistics.
I think some of that was a bit of a grain of salt.
Overall though I would say we still see it growing and within that we are growing better so I think it's a combination of the two.
Fair enough.
Then you guys just talked a little bit about Turbo.
It's always been a great business and you have grown above market I think something in the neighborhood of call it 7% or something over production vehicle numbers but we will hit an inflection point here where you can outgrow those historic levels just because the CAF standards and such globally are all picking up to such aggressive numbers pretty quickly can we start to think about Turbo as being a higher growth than 7% plus you know global SAAR or is this what you saw in the quarter more of a short-term temporary? I am not sure what number I would put on the overall growth Scott but I would say as we said in last year's investor presentation there is explosive growth possible in our Turbo business for a number of reasons.
One is exactly what you said about the increasing standards around the world.
The second is that a Turbo is one of the easiest least technologically difficult things for any OEM to do in order to achieve those standards.
There is a lot of more complex stuff they can do but Turbo they are pretty well known pretty well understood.
I think that penetration rate is going to continue and we are uniquely advantaged within that space because we have a jet engine business and that jet engine business allow just stuff like Material Science Airflow Handling to be shared with the Turbocharger because the Turbo is really just a small jet engine.
So again I would say it's the combination of the two.
That market is going to continue to grow very well but we will also grow very well within that market because of our capability.
That's fair enough.
Okay I will pass it off.
Congrats on a good year guys.
Thanks.
Thank you.
We will go next to Steven Winoker with Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning Dave Dave and Elena.
Nice close to 2013.
Thank you.
Let me start with just the growth investments that you referenced in most of the business units.
Can you give us any kind of - excluding the repositioning to see operating expense impact maybe in total or some sense for sizing how big they were this quarter? I guess Ive got it off the top of my head.
It's a decent size number.
If you look at it across the business and here we are really talking about Steve obviously we are talking about growth investments and so you have to keep up that the investments part of that in quote because its really P&amp;L but it's really building for the future.
So it's a combination of R&amp;D new product.
The whole new product process introduction process CapEx and the flow through of depreciation related to that CapEx it's the expansion feet on the street in terms of high growth region as well as just as you know just the over continued investment we are making in terms of sales and marketing capabilities and engineering capabilities.
It's about 50 basis points.
Okay.
When you think about the total of that.
Okay that's helpful and I suppose in March we will get more detail not just anecdotes around traction I mean as you mentioned you have been making these investments for years now on a relative performance versus direct competitors and peers.
I think that would be helpful because it is often something we hear about.
The second one is on the repositioning projects themselves maybe give us a little sense for where you are directing us? I think it's no longer FrictionMaterials.
Where is it going and what kind of things are you are you doing? Is it Intermec? Is it M&amp;A oriented or where investors often wonder is this the end of it for Honeywell from a repositioning standpoint maybe give us a little flavor for what you are finding? First I would say if you noticed that its really spread across the businesses where we have done a lot of this.
And the nice thing I like about it is we still see lots of opportunity to be able to improve our operations.
As you know our margin rates are still lower than our say high margin rate peers and that's all upside for us as we continue to make the company more efficient.
So the restructuring is pretty much spread amongst the businesses.
I think Dave just to add to that and Steve we talked about this.
You are aware of this.
I mean the whole ideation if you will the development of projects and the pipeline of projects is something that we take very very seriously and it's something that's not a stop/start.
This is a continual good process in terms of really looking for those opportunities to really set a new bar if you will in terms of the performance of the businesses.
The other thing is it's really consistent with and we talked about just a continued expansion and the growth of the global footprint of the company really realizing the opportunity that exists in terms of the GDP the GDP growth globally.
So all of that functional transformation.
It's amazing the things that we continue to do in terms of really a rethinking our model for support both the service levels and the quality levels and the cost levels in FT.
Just this past year I was working with Dave on the functions it's amazing the amount of things that you could consider to be still sort of breakthrough.
Those all represent repositioning opportunities.
We view that very very positively we are obviously strategic in our thinking and then very good we think in terms of execution by actually delivering on those results.
We take that very seriously as well in terms of the ongoing tracking and management of these projects.
It's something you ought to count on from us.
Right.
In light of the volume growth that we are starting to talk about I assume your capacity utilization levels are low enough at this point that there is not a lot of CapEx coming other than what we just talked about for UOP and specific projects on that front.
Yes.
It's largely a PMT issue to your point not much of an issue in the other businesses.
Okay.
Great and I will pass it on.
thanks.
Okay.
We will go next to Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Maybe you program (Inaudible) say great quarter so we are going to have to say it at every conference call here.
I don't mind.
On the fluorine side you mentioned the incremental headwinds in the first quarter.
I mean it's a not a huge part of your business and I think pricing has stabilized there.
In fact I think one of your main competitors talked about raising price earlier this year.
Maybe could you talk about with the volatility and price there or even though it's small what kind of impact it's had on you in the last year and what kind of impact you think it's that's going to have and maybe qualify it in the first quarter and then am I right in kind of viewing the second half as there's a much easier kind of price comp on fluorine or does it get worse from here? I obviously don't want to comment on anything anybody else is saying about it.
I would say though that we did degradation in the course of last year largely because non-patent related product and this is a game where you got to be able to have really unique stuff and that's the advantage we have.
Once we are able to start producing that and introducing it then we will be in that much better a shape.
I don't know that we have actually set quarter-by-quarter how much it affects us but we did feel and in fact last year I don't expect to see a huge decrement again this year.
Just to add to Dave to what you have said and we referenced a meaningful headwind for us in the first quarter and it's measureable in terms of impact so that is something that's going to moderate in terms of headwind in the first quarter.
It happened to be paired timing-wise with also the headwind that we got out of UOP in terms of Parex shipments when we really had for the first quarter where we really had just a rollout you recall first quarter 2013 By the way that first quarter 2013 as I referenced when I went through my remarks was also on top of a very strong first quarter '11 and in the first quarter '12.
In 2014 we have a little bit of sort of the confluence of events with both UOP fall into little bit in Resins and Chemicals and it is related to the phenomena Steve that you mentioned and then basically that moderates then over the course of 2014.
Is it a r22 or a 410a issue? It's largely r22.
Okay so this is really the volatility.
I mean you had a spike in the price so that should normalize.
Is it about like (Inaudible) third of the year-over-year comp to down 150 in margins? In terms of headwind that we are going to have from PMT in the first quarter due to phenomena I just mentioned.
By the way the other headwind we have as I talked about was ACS which is well known in terms of the acquisition in terms of margin rate.
I am just talking margin rate.
It's say about a third of the of impact in terms of the PMT phenomena.
Okay.
That's great and one last question before the March meeting here.
I mean you guys are kind of putting up the low double-digit low-teens growth.
I mean you are kind managing a pretty well to that number.
It seems like you guys are a little more optimistic on the economy which would suggest that maybe at the end of the day that 12% to 13% consisting EPS growth is not really be that much of a standout outperformance.
I mean at what point do you kind of look out in a better economy see peers growing maybe 15% plus and think about maybe doing something a little more to get that growth rate up or do we still have kind of the mentality that look it is going to click away and do we think over a five-year period and above average type of growth rate? Is there any discussion as to that high level approach to the business model? Well I would say Steve there is always obviously a big difference between actual and forecast.
And when you are trying to forecast out for five years its one thing to just put a really bullish economic scenario behind it it is another to say okay we want to make sure that we can do whatever it is that we say that we are going to do.
I would rely though that if we take a look at how we done on actual historically we have always done very well when it came to actual especially worse is our forecast.
If we say okay we have got plan to grow a certain percent over the next five years and the economy is significantly better than what we expected that certainly won't be holding ourselves to that as a maximum rather we are going to continue to be focused on how do we outperform our peers every quarter every year just like we have in the past.
So I wouldn't get too hung up on a forecast that how bullish is the macro forecast for the economy.
I am certainly hopeful that it ends up better than what I tend to think it is going to be but it is showing signs of some life now.
I don't know that we are going to see a really robust economy over the next five years but you just don't know.
No matter what happens it will be our intent to outperform on the actual.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
You are welcome.
We will go next to Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Jeff.
Hi Dave.
One way to get at that question is that it kind of looks like the cabbage path is really slowing up.
Well we have done a lot of seed planting.
There is a lot cabbage to be picked up.
I agree with you.
So I mean obviously you are not going to announce deals here today or anything but how active is the M&amp;A pipeline and where is your head on share repurchase? Obviously you have got the $5 billion authorization you put out there.
Its not clear that you are going to really aggressively move against that though.
Well I think hacking back to the comment Dave just made on restructuring and how we keep a pretty full pipeline.
We do the same thing when it comes to M&amp;A looking at what's available what's possible how do we continue to do what we call our milk runs and just calling on companies and heard me liken it to being at a retail business where you sit there and from 10:00 to 2:00 nobody shows up and then at 2:00 for some reason seven people come it at the same time and you wonder why it wasn't spread out during the day.
Well.
the same thing happens with M&amp;A deals.
Sometimes they come in a bunch like they did nine ten months ago and sometimes you go a year-and-half without much happening.
So its tough to predict.
So if you are focused on making smart deals like we continue to do then it is probably going to keep coming in bunches because I never say okay we have got to deploy $2 billion a year or anything like that.
I want to make sure that we continue to say stay smart about this.
That being said there is just a whole lot of opportunity for us when it comes to M&amp;A.
It's a big world out there and we look at the possibilities for great positions in good industries building off the portfolio we have.
There's still a lot of good stuff out there.
So we are going to continue looking.
When it comes to repurchases I want that in our quiver as the things that we could be doing.
We are going to continue to at least hold share count flat.
Its my intent to do that.
So.
I want to make sure that we are a little more opportunistic when it comes to it.
I am always fearful of falling into that 80% that buys at the wrong time and I would like make sure that we fall into the 20% that looks like wow that was a really smart thing to do.
I think timing does make a difference there and we will continue to think about it that way.
So I still see a lot of M&amp;A potential and I think we have proven over the years that we are reasonably good at it.
Okay another thing to add.
If you just look at 2013 and this is another I think kudos for the company you look at 2013 we had $1.1 billion in terms of share buyback.
Te had roughly the same number in terms of M&amp;A.
Dividend we paid out $1.4 billion rounds.
$1.375 billion roughly $1.4 billion.
This is very strong performance and I think if you look at the track record of Honeywell what we have been able to deliver not only operationally but in terms of as Dave said smart capital deployment.
Smart deals we thought.
If you go back to 2005 Nomar transaction the UOP transaction go forward in terms of what we have done in terms of building on a position in gas detection our safety products business.
The growth now and AIDC Scanning and Mobility.
These are all very very smart adds that lend themselves to further both organic and inorganic growth.
Thomas Russell add to UOP.
As Dave said the pipeline is rich.
There is always the distance between the cup and the lip.
In M&amp;A it's very tough to move from concept to actually close but what we have done has been very successful and the track record is well balanced in our capital deployment.
50% of our cash over the last 10 years deployed to build the business into CapEx or M&amp;A 50% back to shareholders either in the form of dividend or share buyback so we are just going to continue to be smart about it.
We think that disciplined approach pays out over time together with the operating discipline and the operating performance.
Jeff I like everything that Dave just said with one exception I might modify and correct his pronunciation of the word smart.
Interesting.
I think I would learn that through for all these years.
Smart in China.
Thanks Jeff.
Dave I also just asked that question on the context of situation what it looks like you maybe could be net cash by the end of the year.
You are going out a new five-year target right I doubt if you are modeling the recession.
Perhaps you are but if you are going to grow earnings 10% 12% 13% in next five years that's going to be a (Inaudible).
Jeff I am well aware of the cash that we have on the balance sheet.
Then just finally Dave Anderson said each asking you would lay out target for more profitable growth so currently is you are going to project higher (Inaudible) are there any particular areas that actually standout as being on target form the margin standpoint? I think Dave really it's across.
Yes.
We see upside maybe it should be one of the businesses Jeff.
The pattern of that Jeff will vary just as the pattern varies by quarter in 2014 vary by business by year based up on their individual growth outlooks if you will to make up the long cycle short cycle all of those factors are going to influence but when you look at the overall five-year numbers as Dave said we think are very positive for all the businesses.
By the way Jeff just a compliment for you we were really amused by your phrase.
A pretty typical street forecasting well done.
Yes.
It's 23% every year right? Have a good day.
Talk to you later.
Nice.
Thank you.
We will go to Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you very much.
A couple of things.
One is on Thomas Russell.
It looks like the numbers were sequentially about the same and how is it doing? Can you kind of provide an update for us please? On Thomas Russell? It's doing well.
I would say between their capability and ours extremely complimentary in market technology and sales outreach and even manufacturing so quite good.
Year-over-year or you are still lacking high what I would call a 10% 30% growth rate? I don't that we disclose it.
No.
I think you can comment though.
It's not that level hard.
You can see part of it below the line Dave so that's why - Fully integrated in (Inaudible) All right.
I will leave that.
You are correct.
It's doing well.
Then in terms of Aerospace new products I think that there has been a number of them in terms of synthetic vision and in terms of some other things in term of integrating the cockpit.
Mike you talked about them and sort of what's your finding as you (Inaudible)? I am not sure what you are looking for specifically there Howard but yes.
We do have a pile of new products coming out of the Aero business some of which they have talked about some of which they haven't and so far so good things are going well.
And one of course is all the connectivity things that you have got (inaudible) maybe you can provide an update on some of that.
That's where I was going though.
Okay.
Well you can expect us to talk more about that on Investor Day because you are correct.
We think that's the place that we excel and we see continuing to increase.
Oaky.
Thank you very much.
You are welcome Howard.
We have time for one more question.
We will take our last question from John Inch with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Hi John.
Commercial aftermarket just wondering what the trend and cadence of the business is.
You had pretty robust results and from competitors and chatter about some inventory restock and you guys are going to be rolling into you actually have these in your compares this quarters.
You seem to have easier compares on the segment.
As the course of the year unfolds why don't you talk to the compares towards what is the cadence of that business.
I assume you are talking about Aero John? Yes I am sorry commercial aerospace aftermarket.
We think that's something that starts to get a little bit better this year than it was last year overall.
Specifically John to put some perspective on it we had something shifting numbers.
If you look back at the fourth quarter of 2012.
We did start to see the impact of aircraft dismantling and asset pooling and that really pulled down in the developed economies their spare sales.
For example U.S.
spares in the fourth quarter of 2012 were down over 20%.
Obviously this is partially offset by what we talked about a year ago a bit of a pull-forward in buying behavior out of China.
So in the fourth quarter of 2012 our China spares were up over 40%.
So now if we fast forward to 2013 in the fourth quarter we did see a return of more normal buying behavior across almost all of the geographies but in particular you see the U.S.
rebounding nicely up over 20% while China spare sales increased sequentially though they are still facing that difficult comp and I think about 10% within the quarter.
So moving forward to 2014 we do expect the ATR aftermarket there to grow in the first quarter in excess of flight hours as a result of the easier comp and obviously more normal buying behavior.
And that obviously pertains to prospectively better margins in the second as the year unfolds if I am reading that right.
I think that's fine.
Okay.
And maybe a way to summarize all of that is to say that the guidance is the same which is we are looking at mid single digit growth in the commercial aftermarket for aerospace in 2014.
For the year.
Can I ask you about transportation.
I think European light vehicle in the first quarter was down in terms of production down double-digit.
Why is the number I realize it's a little bit of currency headwind but given the strength of transportation in the fourth quarter the momentum you seem to have why is your guide still where it is? Why 3% to 5%? Why isn't it up a little bit higher for '14? You are talking about TS in total? Yes.
Correct.
I guess it's the moderating effect of friction plus there is let's say a conservatism on our part when it comes to what's going to happen in Europe.
So we think its bottomed at this point and that's why we are starting to see increases as new launches more than offset the slight declines but its just more a case of just wanting to not get too far off on this one.
Currency also has a big impact there but the assumption that we make when using as you recall John we are using a 1.30 Euro to Dollars.
So that has a little bit of a headwind effect to TS.
It's largely non-U.S.
today business.
So that does have an influence as well.
Well is there any sort of rate to your assumption that perhaps maybe the rebound you are seeing light vehicle consumption in Europe is perhaps little bit short-term duration or is there something else? I am just trying to is this anything more than conservatism I guess is what I am going after? Well John I would point out that in the fourth quarter we did see very strong buying behavior in China.
Dave referenced this in his opening comments.
So there is some free buy ahead of some potential regulation changes on emission that certainly bode very well for the TS sales in China in the quarter.
So we are not anticipating that that will repeat.
Okay.
And I am also hopeful that its conservatism on our part.
I get it.
I am just making sure there is nothing else in the mix that has (inaudible).
There is nothing bad.
Just one more quick one then.
It's a little bit of back to the M&amp;A question.
Dave Anderson had set a $1 billion placeholder for this year and you kind it kind of make sense as a placeholder.
I just want to know Dave Cote how are you thinking about perhaps the prospects given the strength of your balance sheet toward - if the opportunity came along doing say a mid-year deal in ACS or something that could sort of build up the success of Intermec and some of these other deals have done or do you really sort of see '14 at this juncture still kind of a pretty much a bolt-on year? John I would go back to what I said earlier.
It's tough to know.
We look at small stuff we look at the bigger stuff and you just never know when something is all of a sudden become actionable and I don't want to ever commit certain amount every year because it's not necessarily the way deals come in but I could tell you we are very interested in M&amp;A because I think we have proven we are good at it.
Where it's focused on doing a good job with it today as we were 10 years ago because it's not an area where we ever want to make a mistake so who knows? I would just say that I have a predilection for doing M&amp;A because I think we are good at it and it's a way for us to really add value.
I understand but Dave would you prefer to do a bigger deal if the opportunity arose because of the success you have had or do you think the smaller bolt-on framework is really still the playbook we should think about? I guess it depends on how we define bigger deal because I am not favoring one or the other.
At the end of the day I just want to do good deals and I would rather do 10 $200 million really good deals than to do a $2 billion average deal.
By the same token if there is a $2 billion really good deal.
I am certainly not going to sit here going well that's too big.
I don't want to do that so it's got to be on a case-by-case basis.
The thing I can promise you is no matter how this ends up evolving or developing I will be able to make a strong case to you on why we can make good money on this focused on cost synergies not counting on sales synergies and it will be a great position in a good industry.
Thanks very much.
See you in March.
All right Dave.
Do you have any final comments? Of course.
We certainly like what we have accomplished and not just in this quarter of course.
While that does feel good what feels even better is what we can see coming as we continue to outperform.
I got to say it's been very fulfilling to complete our first five-year plan with panache even in a weaker than expected macro economy.
That being said as I say a lot and my team has heard me say a lot yesterday's press clippings wrap today's fish.
We intend to continue outperforming for a long time and the seed planting that we have done for several years now puts us in a great position to make that happen.
We continue to look forward and we look forward to sharing our next five-year plan with you at our March Investor Day.
Thanks for listening.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Honeywell's first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
At this time all participants have been placed in a listen only mode and the floor will be open for your questions following the presentation.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
Now I would like to introduce your host for today's conference Elena Doom Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you Tony.
Good morning and welcome to our first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
With me today are Chairman and CEO Dave Cote and Senior Vice President and CFO Tom Szlosek.
This call and webcast including any non-GAAP reconciliations are available on our website at honeywell.com/investor.
Note that elements of today's presentation do contain forward-looking statements that are based on our best view of the world and of our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change and we would ask that you interpret them in that light.
We do identify the principal risks and uncertainties that affect our performance in our Form 10-K and other SEC filings.
This morning we will review our financial results for the first quarter and review our outlook for the second quarter and full year and finally we will save time for your questions.
So with that I will turn the call over to Dave Cote.
Thanks Elena.
Good morning everyone.
I'm sure you've seen by now Honeywell delivered another good quarter to kick off 2014.
EPS of $1.28 increased 10% year-over-year when normalizing for tax so another quarter of double-digit EPS growth with earnings coming in above the high-end of our guidance range.
This was driven in large part by our strong execution and higher sales conversion all while maintaining our seed planting investments in the future.
Our enablers and key process initiatives are driving meaningful results throughout the portfolio.
An important driver of our productivity continues to be the savings we're seeing from previously funded restructuring actions.
With that in mind we've been able to proactively fund restructuring and other actions by fully deploying the approximate $0.10 gain from the sale of B/E Aerospace shares in the first quarter just like we did in the fourth quarter of last year.
I'd also point out that the company funded an incremental $10 million of restructuring actions in the quarter from operations.
So in total $0.11 of restructuring and other actions.
The projects funded in the first quarter alone are estimated to yield full run rate savings of about $70 million over the next couple of years.
We're being proactive about keeping that restructuring pipeline full and we think these actions position us well for further market expansion over the next five years.
Margin EPS and cash flow were all strong in the quarter in spite of slightly slower top line growth primarily related to timing in PMT and lower defense and space sales.
Sales in the quarter of $9.7 billion were up 4% reported and 1% organic.
However if you exclude D&amp;S where the headwinds are well known organic sales for the total company were up about 3%.
We talked a lot about great positions in good industries and our diversity of opportunity which once again benefited us in the quarter.
We saw a good momentum exiting the quarter in our short-cycle businesses while our long-cycle businesses maintained healthy backlog.
We're also seeing pockets of recovery in below peak end markets.
Transportation systems for example continues its healthy pace of recovery and while weather may have been a factor in some areas these challenges were mostly offset by weather related areas of opportunity.
For example ECC enjoyed strong double-digit sales growth in combustion and heating controls.
The order momentum we're seeing out of our long cycle businesses and short cycle also positions us well for our expected acceleration of organic growth in the second quarter and second half of the year.
Geography is also part of our diversity of opportunity.
In the U.S.
we continue to see good growth excluding the D&amp;S headwinds I mentioned.
We're encouraged by continued stabilization in Europe and even more excited about the growth we saw in China India and the Middle East.
It's worth nothing that each of our SBGs grew double-digits organically in China in the quarter.
So both our short and long cycle businesses are delivering on our high growth reaching strategies.
Innovation and investments in new product and technologies are also driving value across the portfolio.
We unveiled the Honeywell User Experience or HUE back in March and we couldn't be more excited about what this will mean for Honeywell.
We recently opened a HUE design studio in Shanghai with other design studios set to open globally.
We're focused on how we can drive significant change and improve the experience for the user installer and maintainer.
With all that being said we remain cautiously optimistic on the macro economy and with the strength in the first quarter we're confident in our revised full year outlook for pro forma EPS raising the low end by $0.05 making our new range $5.40 to $5.55 up 9% to 12% versus prior year.
Our outlook on free cash flow has also improved based on the strong performance we saw in the first quarter.
As Tom will detail in a moment we are now reporting free cash flow without adjustments for cash pension NARCO payments and one-time items.
So the guidance range remains the same but it's reflective of the first quarter performance and importantly without adjustments.
In summary we've got a lot of momentum across the portfolio which we highlighted in our March Investor Day with roadmap for future growth and profitability as part of our new five-year target going out to 2018.
Innovation and execution our seed planting for the future Great Positions in Good Industries and the power of One Honeywell will continue to differentiate us allowing us to deliver on these targets and continuing to outperform.
So with that I'll turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Dave and good morning.
On Slide 4 let me walk you through the financial results for the first quarter.
Sales of 9.7 billion were up approximately 4% on a reported basis and up 1% on an organic basis.
The total sales are right in the middle range we communicated early March of 9.6 billion to 9.8 billion and the organic growth rate was slightly lower than expectation due to timing in aerospace and PMT.
As Dave mentioned excluding defense and space which is expected to stabilize this year our organic sales were up 3%.
Regionally organic sales were up 1% in the US and EMEA with Europe showing resilience continued resilience despite some large customer project ramp downs.
China grew 14% on an organic basis with double digit organic growth in each of the business.
As we will detail later we are anticipating organic sales growth to accelerate as the year progresses.
Segment profit increased 6% in the quarter with margins expanding 30 basis points to 16.5% or up 50 basis points excluding the dilutive impact of M&amp;A.
We had guided to 30 to 50 basis points improvement in the margin rate excluding M&amp;A so the 50 basis points is on the high end of our expectation.
We saw margin expansion three out of the four businesses productivity continues to be a key driver across the portfolio offsetting inflation and continued investments for growth.
In PMT we did experience some temporary margin contraction because of expected headwinds around unfavourable petrochemical catalyst shipment mix and pricing headwinds in R22 in resins and chemicals.
Still PMT closed at 21% segment margin was our highest margin business in the quarter and we continue to have lot of confidence in our ability to expand margin going forward.
Below segment profit I wanted to comment on two items the first is the gains we experienced from the additional B/E Aero shares and second the tax rate.
On B/E Aero which I will further detail in a minute the gain was more than offset than restructuring and other charges resulting in a $0.01 unfavorable impact on EPS.
The B/E aero gain is not included in our operating margin but the restructuring and other charges are so operating margins expanded 10 basis points in the quarter compared to the segment margin expansion of 30 basis points.
The tax rate of 26.6% was in line with expectation and represent a $0.06 headwind compared to 2013.
Earnings per share of $1.28 was a penny higher than where we guided even after we funded incremental $0.01 of additional restructuring action.
There are a couple of things to mention on free cash flow first it was really strong up 2.5 times 2013 amounts the improvement came equally from better working capital performance and lower cash contribution to foreign pension plan.
Second we are simplifying how we define free cash flow as Dave mentioned.
Its just free cash flow from operations  just cash flow from operation less capital expenditures no more adjusting for pension or NARCO.
We did this the same way for both 2013 and 2014 so the numbers are comparable and the growth is real.
Slide 5 provides a more detailed view of the gain deployment actions in the quarter.
As you can see the $0.10 per share gain from the 1.5 million BE aero shares sold in the first quarter was exceeded by funding the restructuring actions and other proactive environmental remedy.
So in total an $0.11 headwind to earnings from restructuring activities offset by the B/E aero gain of $0.10 so a net $0.01 headwind to earnings.
Restructuring -- repositioning and restructuring represent the majority of the gain deployment just as you heard in January these actions are intended to proactively realign our businesses for growth and higher asset efficiency and will provide us with meaningful margin and earnings tailwind in future periods.
Were expecting these projects to yield approximately $70 million of run rate savings in future years and each individual project has an excellent ROI.
We will continue to maintain a steady pipeline of future projects to fund should the opportunity arise.
This as you know continues to be a key element of Honeywell playbook as restructuring funds the exit cost requirements from our key process initiatives and integration activities.
A smaller portion of the gain was used to fund incremental environmental charges.
This relates to certain remediation project that we believe seeking proactive remedies with the regulators will lead to lower expenses and more cost stability over the long term.
Overall these actions position the company well for future earnings growth and as a reminder following the sale of 2.6 million B/E Aero shares in the fourth quarter of last year and the 1.5 million in the first quarter we still have roughly 1.9 million shares remaining and continue to have a very favorable view of the company.
Now lets take a look at the four business segments.
Starting on Slide 6 aerospace sales were down 2% which is in line with our guidance.
However excluding the impact of the expected defense and space decline aero sales were up a solid 3%.
Segment margin was up 30 basis points which was actually a bit better than our expectation.
From a sales perspective commercial OE sales were up 1% reflecting strong air transport and business aircraft shipment.
We had particularly strong 737 and 787 OE growth and broad strength across business aircraft portfolio.
Regional jet sales were lower reflecting lower volume and free of charge shipment.
Commercial aftermarket sales were up 4% in the quarter with double-digits spares growth in both ATR and BGA partially offset by lower R&amp;O revenues a reflection of fewer maintenance events and timing.
The 14% spares growth was driven by the recovery in the US and China and we highlighted this as a challenge in the first quarter of 2013 as well by the continued robust RMU sale in BGA RMU is repairs modifications and upgrade.
Defense and space sales were down 8% which we expect to be the low point from a sales perspective for the year most of the decline was planned with known program ramp downs and anticipated lower government services and defense aftermarket revenue.
On segment profit the aero team was able to more than offset the impact from the lower sales to drive the segment margin up 30 basis points through commercial excellence productivity net of inflation and favorable aftermarket mix.
On Page 7 we are looking at ACS prior to the shift of HPS to PMT.
We expect to file an 8K in the second quarter to reflect this change and we will update our historical numbers.
However we are perfectly clear when we shared the guidance for Q2 and the rest of the year which I will review in a few minutes we will do that on the new reporting structure.
The ACS organic sales were up 2% and reported sales up 8% both in line with our expectations the difference of course reflects the growth from M&amp;A in particular Intermec and RAE Systems acquisition.
Segment margin was up 40 basis points almost twice our expectation.
ESS sales so the products business were up 2% with ECC and life safety showing particularly strong growth and more than offsetting the expected declines in scanning and mobility resulting from the ramp down of certain programs.
Without this scanning and mobility dilution ESS sales would have been up 5% with some favorable contribution from weather impacting ECC.
We experienced higher U.S.
residential sales including on the retail side modest improvements in Asia and Europe and continued HGR growth in China and India.
The Intermec acquisition continues to go well.
We're exceeding what were challenging expectations on the pace of integration and on performance.
Also the business continues to win a large number of orders that are expected to result in further 2014 growth.
Process dilution sales were up 3% on an organic basis in the quarter with continued good growth in high-margin areas like services and advanced solutions more than offsetting the impact of large project completions.
Orders growth also continues to be healthy and backlog is growing which Darius and the PMT team will see the benefit of in the future.
Building solutions sales were essentially flat on an organic basis.
We are encouraged by our building solutions orders and the project backlog growth both showing mid-single digit growth on an organic basis.
And we're also experiencing similar growth in the services backlog not a trend yet but certainly encouraging development as we look for the rest of the year.
ACS margins expanded 40 basis points to 14.2% in the quarter and were up 70 basis points excluding dilutions from M&amp;A.
ACS continues to benefit from driving commercial excellence volume leverage and productivity while at the same time investing for the future.
Moving to Page 8 Performance Materials and Technologies PMT sales were up 2% in line with our expectations and driven by 9% growth in UOP offset by 4% declines in Advanced Materials.
Although PMT margins contracted 100 basis points the result was better than our expectations and at 20.8% PMT was again our highest margin business in the quarter.
On sales UOP experienced significant growth in catalyst volume and gas processing offset by an unfavorable mix in catalyst shipments and lower process technology licensing sales resulting from timing and challenging comps.
As you know we are in the midst of adding UOP capacity particularly on the catalyst side which will help the business to better service $2.4 billion backlog.
Advanced Material sales were down 4%.
We experienced volume increases in most of the Advanced Materials portfolio despite the tempering effect of the difficult weather.
However this volume growth was more than offset by unfavorable pricing in fluorine products and resins and chemicals.
We do expect the pricing challenges to moderate in the second quarter and throughout the year as we lap prior year declines.
The decline in the segment margin was principally driven by unfavorable catalyst mix in UOP the price raw challenges in Advanced Materials and contemporary spike in raw material costs due to weather partially offset by productivity net of inflation.
On Slide 9 you can see transportation systems had a very strong quarter with sales up 9% that's 7% without the benefit of foreign exchange and segment margin up 340 basis points.
On the sale side the increase was principally volume-related.
We experienced strong turbo volume growth in our three biggest regions: Europe North America and China.
The Europe growth was strong in both light and commercial vehicle segments.
We continue to benefit from improving global industry macros on vehicle production also from regulations and gas penetration.
We continue to benefit from a strong win rate with turbo unit sales from new product launches doubling from 2013 levels.
As the year progresses and we begin to lap stronger periods from 2013 we do expect some moderation in the growth rate.
The segment margin improvements to 15.5% reflects the strong productivity and volume leverage in turbo and the benefits from restructuring and other operational improvement.
We continue to work on the Friction Materials divestiture and expect a closure sometime in the second half of 2014.
I'm now on Page 10 with a preview of the second quarter.
We're expecting sales of $10 billion to $10.2 billion which would be up between 3% and 5% on a reported basis or approximately 3% on an organic basis.
We're using a euro rate of roughly 1.35 for the second quarter.
Segment margins are expected to be up in the range of 50 to 70 basis points excluding the dilutive impact of M&amp;A EPS of $1.32 to $1.36 will be up 8% to 11% at our normalized 26.5% effective tax rate.
On the segment aero sales growth is expected to be in between minus 1% and plus 1% in the quarter with low single-digit commercial growth offset by moderating Defense and Space declines.
On commercial OE we're still seeing healthy demand for air transport deliveries which is helping offset the continued drag from lower regional aircraft sales.
In commercial aftermarket we're expecting ATR spares growth to be about in line with flight hours in the quarter as well as continued BGA RMU strength.
As for margins we expect some headwinds primarily due to higher mechanical OE sales in both ATR and BGA and a higher proportion of ATR revenue in the quarter resulting in flattish overall margin growth.
For ACS as I indicated earlier we're providing guidance based upon the new reporting structure.
Sales are expected to be up between 8% and 10% or approximately 3% on an organic basis.
The reported sales growth is largely driven by the Intermec acquisition and an acceleration of organic growth in ESS particularly security and scanning and mobility and also BSD.
Modest improvements in non-resi projects are expected to favorably impact ECC life safety and security and high-growth region sales look to continue their positive trend.
The two consecutive quarters of long-cycle orders and backlog growth in building solutions is encouraging and should enable strong sales growth in the second half.
ACS margins are expected to be up again in the second quarter approximately 50 basis points or 100 basis points excluding the dilutive impact of M&amp;A.
PMT including process solutions in both years is expecting sales increase between 3% and 5% in the second quarter driven by double-digit increases in UOP and to low-to-mid-single-digit growth in HPS and Advanced Materials.
In UOP we foresee another strong quarter of increased catalyst and gas processing sales growth while in Advanced Materials; we anticipate broad sales growth across the portfolio including improved production levels in Resins &amp; Chemicals and our normal seasonal ramp-up in fluorine products.
The PMT leadership is encouraged by the momentum in the orders and the backlog increases in HPS.
PMT segment margins however are expected to be up slightly versus the prior year based on the mix of shipments within UOP offset by moderating pricing pressures in Advanced Materials.
In transportation systems the strong performance is expected to continue although tampered slightly from Q1 by the more challenging comp.
Sales look to grow between 5% and 7% driven by new platform launches continued turbo gas penetration and flat or slightly better EU light vehicle production rate year-over-year.
Segment margins will be similar to first quarter levels and up approximately 200 basis points primarily driven by higher volumes in turbo and continued productivity gains.
On Page 11 we're profiling the organic sales growth for the year.
We're expecting full year growth of 3% on an organic basis so there's some modest acceleration from the Q1 growth rate of 1%.
We want to explain the key drivers.
The page shows the first half versus second half organic growth rates for 2013 as well as what we expect for 2014.
The first thing to notice is that the first half growth for 2014 is stronger than 2013.
We saw that in this first quarter as 1% organic growth although tepid was greater than the first quarter of 2013 where we saw a decline of 1%.
Second the slope of the line is similar each year 2013 we went from 0% in the first half to 3% in the second half and 2014 we go from 2% in the first half to an expected 4% in the second half.
Thirdly the notations on the top of the 2014 bar show the expected organic growth rate excluding Defense and Space which would be roughly 3% in the first half of 2014 accelerating to approximately 4% in the second half of the year.
That happens because of the factors mentioned on the right side of the page.
In Aero Defense and Space declined significantly moderate.
Also commercial OE is expected to improve slightly largely driven by the absence of the prior year's large fourth quarter BGA OE payment.
In ACS we anticipate scanning and mobility returning to growth after lapping the program wind downs I discussed earlier and also layering on new business wins.
The macro environment is also expected to modestly improve which continues residential strength and improving non-residential markets benefiting ESS.
And as highlighted earlier in the last couple of quarters have seen a nice lift in building solutions backlog which is expected to result in stronger sales growth rate in the second half.
In PMT the pick-up in the second half was driven primarily by better Process Solutions and Advanced Materials growth partially offset by tougher comps in UOP.
UOP organic sales grew 17% in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The Process Solutions backlog of projects and services continues to grow nicely which like Building Solutions is expected to result in better second half sales growth.
And as mentioned earlier Advanced Materials pricing headwinds are expected to moderate in the second quarter and back half of the year and we are also expecting a boost from higher volumes and higher sulfate [ph] sales in fluorine products.
Finally in Transportation while the outlook remains very strong the comps become gradually more challenging as we progress through the year.
So while we're expecting the growth in the second half in TS it's expected to be at a slower pace than the first.
I'm now on Slide 12 where we provide an outlook of segment performance for the year.
Again this guidance reflects the realignment of our Process Solutions business in the PMT from ACS.
So let me explain the set-up here.
The left-hand side of the slide represents the guidance we provided in March and it's based on the old reporting structure.
The right half reflects our current guidance.
On a total Honeywell-basis if you look at the bottom-line the segment guidance for the year is not changed.
However there are some minor changes to the segment that you should be aware of.
Aerospace sales remain roughly in-line with the guidance but reflecting the slower R&amp;O growth in the first quarter and slightly lower margins impacted by volume leverage on that lower sales growth.
ACS and PMT now reflect a shift of Process Solutions for the full year.
Organic sales are expected to improve in the second half of the year from both businesses.
We have also provided updated margins profile which show continued expansion in both ACS and PMT.
The Transportation System guidance reflects the first quarter top line strength and strong margin expansion.
We're now expecting TS margins to approximate 15% or more in 2014.
So small puts and takes but as I said no change to total Honeywell sales and margin outlook.
Moving to Slide 13 we have an update on our full year guidance which is very similar to what we shared at the March Investor Day except for two things.
One we're raising our full year pro forma EPS guidance at the low end by $0.05 resulting in a new range of $5.40 to $5.55 which is up 9% to 12% versus 2013.
This reflects our first quarter performance and the confidence we have in our outlook.
Second we're raising our free cash flow guidance by approximately $300 million to reflect the strength we saw in working capital in the first quarter and lower foreign cash pension contribution.
To be clear the $3.8 billion to $4 billion range looks the same as what we showed you previously in March but that range was based on the prior definition of free cash flow which excluded several non-operating items.
So with those changes we continue to expect sales in the range of $40.3 billion to $40.7 billion which is up 3% to 4% on a reported basis and 3% on an organic basis.
Our sales range reflect euro at $1.30 for the second half of the year so a little bit of headwind there.
We also continue to expect segment margins between 16.6% and 16.9% which will be up 30 to 60 basis points from 2013 or 50 to 80 basis points excluding the M&amp;A impact.
So as Dave said earlier still a very balanced outlook for the year but taking into account the good start we saw in the first quarter.
On Page 14 I have a brief wrap-up.
In markets that continue to be somewhat challenged we're off to another good start to the year.
We exceeded our expectations on most fronts including margins earnings and free cash flow while at the same time continuing to invest for future growth and productivity.
We raised our earnings and cash guidance to reflect a strong first quarter as well as our expectations for growth acceleration in the second half.
We intend to continue our outperformance by leveraging our balanced portfolio which as you know is strategically aligned with the favorable macro trend.
These include energy efficiency clean energy generation safety and security and urbanization combined with a growing middle class and customer productivity all of which remain intact.
So with that Elena let's go to Q&amp;A.
Thanks Tom.
Tony we will now open up the line for our first question.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is coming from Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research Partners.
Please go ahead.
Could we drill in a little bit more on the building-related trends in ACS? Tom you gave us some color there.
But just on BSD I'm curious if there is some geographic color you can shed on what's going on in the firming there and if there is some color you can shed on energy retrofit versus new construction? Yes.
Id say the growth in orders in HPS was high-single digits for the quarter on an organic basis.
And that came across very strong in the Americas.
Europe was also very good and Asia was a little bit smaller for us was a little bit down but in the Americas were seeing really good wins in energy smart grid solutions as well and services our service bank continues to grow so  across the board pretty good result there on orders perspective and again as we said this is the second quarter where were seeing that momentum so hopefully bodes well for the second half.
And then when you look at ESS and whats going on there in particular and environmental controls can you elaborate a little bit more on how the quarter played out? It sounds like it was a pretty strong heating-driven quarter.
Does that then fall off as we get into the second quarter? No I think  the trend I mean ECC was very strong Jeff in the quarter mid-to-high single-digits on a growth perspective.
Americas was very strong in combustion as well so both homes and combustion.
But the trends will probably be mid-single-digits growth over the course of the year if the conditions kind of stay where they are.
So we're encouraged by it.
We also have the new products Jeff that we've been introducing and that's helping.
Can you elaborate a little bit on the call you are making on the euro? So you are just expecting a dollar-euro fade here as we get into the back half of the year? And if that doesn't happen what kind of hedge that is to your second-half earnings outlook? Yeah.
I mean as we said we're using $1.35 for the second quarter and $1.30 for the second half.
I mean we've closed the rate obviously to the second quarter and starting to feel more confident of that.
We're not trying to be economists or forecasters here; I think it's just more conservatism that we're including.
The impact on the second half would not be very significant.
Yeah the average in the second half of last year on the euro Jeff I think it was $1.33 roughly $1.34 in that range for second half.
So a little bit of headwind but remember that was the midpoint of our revenue outlook for the second half.
Roughly speaking euro spend [ph] is an EPS spend [ph] on a full-year basis.
Is that about right? Roughly.
Yeah a little less than that but its both and thats assuming that euro is isolated.
Right.
Right.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Scott Davis with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
I don't think you mentioned particularly Dave.
I don't think you mentioned anything about the management changes and pretty substantial really.
Maybe the question really is because I don't think we have half hour to talk here but the question is what do you expect to get better? What's the messaging I guess in the share volume and changes you made and there are changes in mandates I mean I was just hoping up to that.
Yeah I don't think you're going to get lot more from me than what we already talked about because we try to explain it first time through.
I'd say the reason I didn't bring it up is I kind of viewed it as history and we already went through that but at the end of the day the whole point is just we've got really good people coming up and we need to make sure that we provide opportunities for them to grow and at the same time we've got this five year plan that we submitted to that has some pretty big themes that we want to make sure that we drive.
So M&amp;A high growth regions software focus QE and as far as HOS goals and as I look at those I want to make sure we develop them as a company and this gives us an opportunity with the vice chairs that really make sure that happens and that we can deliver on that five-year plan but it's really pretty much what I said Scott in the announcement we sent out.
And not to nitpick but Defense down 8 I think was a little bit worse than what we had expected.
I mean can you give us a sense of how that transitions through the year? Particularly when it flattens out and becomes a net neutral? I mean assuming by 1Q of '15 it's going to be an easy comp but how are you thinking about the next three quarters? The decline Scott we start to see them in the second quarter and we will actually probably be flattish in the second half so for the year we are expecting to be in line with low single-digit decline for the year.
We have an easier comp right in the third quarter of this year so likely to see us an excellent increase in D&amp;S revenue in the third quarter given the 11% decline in 3Q of 2013.
And then just a quick one on HPS can you give us a sense of the order book in that business and how the forward outlook books? Id say if you look at it from a book to bill ratio pretty strong and from a pure growth percentage we were also mid single digits for the quarter.
The long-cycle projects the bigger project's up a little bit more than that; more in the high single-digits.
Our next question is coming from Steven Winoker with Sanford Bernstein.
First question Tom particularly what kind of visibility do you have beyond the next BEA sales of that 1.9 million shares to get to additional one-time gains in pipeline that can fun restructuring on a continued -- repositioning on the continued basis in other words you have made a lot of ambitious goal in that net five-year plan thats going to require a lot of ongoing repositioning over that five years and were seeing it now been do you have a lot of confidence and visibility into the offset there? Obviously the BEA for the last couple years and some of the other transactions in the last couple years have been a nice catalyst for restructuring but even without those  weve through operations been able to generate sufficient capacity and thats the point of a lot of what we have done as well.
So that's what I look to and in terms of how we set our plan we do try to incorporate capacity for that on an ongoing basis now its not going to be hundreds of millions of dollars every quarter but we are very mindful of it.
And in the same way that you moved on cash now that you are reporting on a cleaner basis without the adjustments is there some thought for doing the same thing on restructuring or other items or not really? Well I am not exactly clear whats not clean about the restructuring.
That was reported in our GAAP earnings Steve.
No I just meant some of your peers choose to just treat the operating earnings all in that's all? Thats the point I'd like you to make much more strongly Steve in all your comments I have always felt for 10 12 years we've always included everything and talked about it that way and you allow greater license with some others when it comes to whats in what's out we dont do that.
And then finally on the book to bill you talked about it just now and I guess in HPS on the entirety of the long cycle businesses across Honeywell.
Could you give us that number? Its actually been nice aero has been above one and as I said on HPS also pretty strong.
The backlog Steve is up just about 1% on a year-over-year basis in the quarter.
Our next question is coming from Steve Tusa of JPMorgan.
Can you just give us the  I guess you talked about the  can you give us the prior guidance or at least PMT new guidance on the prior basis? Is there any change to that up 4% up 10%  up 4% in revenues and up 10% in margin up 10 basis points in margin? For the full year you're saying or the second quarter?  Yeah for the full year.
I think in terms of the PMT's full year sales outlook it would have been roughly $50 million lessened from the revenue and margins would have been about 50 basis points less than what we're showing on the current outlook.
So the fact that I guess you are kind of tweaking that down but then moving  so I guess moving HPS in there I mean HPS margins then must be going up a lot? It is an ongoing improvement at HPS.
But I mean I'm getting I guess I'm getting  I'm getting something it's like more than 100 basis points  to have that margin go down like that for PMT but have the combined segment go up 50 basis points I mean that's a huge increase in HPS I think limited I mean there is not that much volume growth there right? It's low to mid-single digits.
So again you're right  It's certainly better in the second half.
Is that a mix dynamic is that more software coming through or something or just blocking and tackling? I mean over the last couple of years as you know in HPS there has been focus on driving operational improvements in the business.
I mean the business is up 200 basis points in the last two years through the end of December and you are still seeing some continued restructuring actions that are directed to that business.
They've also done a nice job of driving growth in services and software sides.
So advanced solutions so the mix of their revenue has been pretty good as well so it's a combination of both operational improvements and the portfolio and what they've been emphasizing.
At the end of the day Steve your premise is right take a look at overall PMT that first quarter struggle continues on a bit during the course of the year so we expect it's not going to be as good as what we had said initially.
And one of the offsets to that is going to be process solutions performance and what areas we've been able to achieve there and it's across the broad it's better growth better cost performance better organization.
I'm really intrigued with what I see going on in that business and where we should take it.
Can you take it more into instrumentation? I would say you're going to see us continuing to drive our software capability because that's a big part of where we differentiate ourselves is just to on a breaks off [ph] on the software side netted value there.
And then Dave any change in the way you view the Advanced Materials business? I mean you've combined HPS and UOP now clearly like a very attractive play on this whole global petrochem scenes out there.
We kind of continue to talk about flooring pricing as a headwind things that probably most multi-industry companies don't talk about.
Is there any kind of change on the portfolio view especially in the context of the liquidity and high valuations out there? And quite frankly the multiple for you guys remains with a discount.
Any thought around how core that business is over the long-term? I would say the fun is the same and that's -- it is still core.
One of the things that  getting back to the diversity of opportunity I like having a lot of thats out there so that there is never one thing that really [indiscernible] me but there is also never any one thing that really takes the whole thing take off.
I think it just creates more sustainability which means that to have all the moving pieces moving in the same positive direction at the same time or negative direction is unlikely.
So what we're seeing right now in particularly resins and chemicals and in fluorine there's a couple of unique aspects that are causing them to not perform as well as we might like.
But at the same time I know those things are going to be changing.
So if I take resins and chemicals when I take a look at the competitive positioning it is still the lowest cost producer in the world and that includes being able to land products in China cheaper than the Chinese can manufacture it domestically.
So we've got an advantage there and I think what you'll probably see is capacity elsewhere in the industry coming out over time and moving our pricing dynamic up.
I think with the fluorine it's largely driven by patents and when you have something come off-patents well pricing has to get hit; that's what you're seeing now.
However we have new patents coming in with the HFO stuff and that's gearing up now.
As a result of that we're going to see some really nice performance out of the fluorines business over the next few years.
So I would kind of liken it more to we've got this unusual dynamic going on in both of these businesses that's going to be turning over the next year or so and we'll benefit from it.
So they're still good businesses.
It's just you can't have every business performing at the same time it just doesn't work.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
So just wanted to dig into the ACS PMT potential synergies there.
You've been talking about the go-to-market potential there for a while now we have implementation [ph].
So I'm wondering Dave do we  should we expect there to be more integration opportunities to businesses going forward or is it basically the same as before just they now happen to be in a same segment? Probably somewhere in between.
We've got to wait for Darius to finish his work there on what he thinks.
But at the end of the day there is stuff that is common and say 60% of the customers that HPS has and the same UOP has if you take a look at who they deal with it should be about the same.
The technology there should be even greater overlap than there is because UOP is developing processes and HPS is developing the controls that manage the process and while we've done some of that already there should be more opportunity there.
On the other side you have UOP which is more obviously of a chemical business and some on the mechanical side when it comes to how to run those chemicals.
And you've got HPS which is largely a software business and that's not going to change.
I have a tough time seeing the chemical guys running the software engineering or vice versa.
So as to where I see I think it's going to be somewhere in between and I'm waiting for Darius to finish his review on what he thinks makes the most sense here.
No that makes sense.
And then switching to TS 15.5% OM I think is the best you've ever done in the quarter given that there have been some changes in the portfolio over that time frame but 15.5 really stood out to me and within that number is friction still losing money or is it back to breakeven? It's nearing breakeven.
It was probably a third of the overall margin improvement for the quarter for Transportation Systems.
And then another quick one.
The free cash flow guidance just to clarify that that includes the cash taxes on [indiscernible]? Yes it does.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
I have one ACS question and then one on another item.
First on ACS we've been seeing  By the way Howard hi.
Hello Dave and in fact you know this new management structure eliminates confusion between you and the CFO now.
So I appreciate that.
In any event Dave good morning.
With respect to U.S.
housing it's been a little sloppy on the starts and I know that's small relative to your business.
Have you seen anything there that's an indication of pent-up demand or some change in the overall market? I don't think  when you look at our revenues in ACS Howard we don't have a precise way of determining where every product ends up whether it's the commercial setting or residential setting but with that said there are very strong verticals within ACS in the last couple of quarters.
I'd point to the retail sales in particular for ECC that have been a strong indication.
Consumers are in fact very interested in energy-related products thermostats and other things when it comes [ph].
And then to follow-up on another subject you've used a lot of the discretionary gains to go after environmental so that you're reducing the long-term obligations there.
Could you just address for a moment Dave what you've done so that the entire process or the enterprise has gone after eliminating legacy liabilities so that the result is that you don't have to find  well use gains to fund prior liabilities but in fact can use them to I'll call it advance the enterprise? Well I look at both as advancing the enterprise but to your point one of them is eliminating a negative as opposed to accentuating a positive.
As you know I started this effort 12 years ago now and thinking that  my first job was given that if you take a look at all of our products and all the stuff we do around the world we're basically on the side of the angels with everything we do whether it's energy efficiency clean energy generation safety security all those macro trends are good things for the world yet we had the legacy liability that was just uncomfortable and very inconsistent with our message.
I also felt that all this stuff cost you more over time and that our previous strategy of just waiting till we lost in core was not a good one and we're prepared to do this proactively.
Well we are at a point now where we can actually see the end of the road on this.
To the extent we can accelerate meeting that ends of the road; well I'm all in favor of it.
I'd say we're not too far away now Howard from being at that point where we've been able to accelerate along these issues make it less expensive to get done because either our remediation is a quicker more effective or we're able to resolve it faster and I can see that within our five-year plan horizon which is a nice place to be.
I mean is there any way to quantify it? I mean it could be $50 million $100 million a year in potential cost avoidance down the road? Yeah my view is it's more on the  I'll try not to be too bullish yet until I actually know.
But I see that's the right kind of range to think about it Howard.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Peter Arment with Sterne Agee.
My question is really on the security [ph] kind of your first half guidance in aerospace versus the second half.
I'm surprised that second half isn't showing up stronger given just kind of the overlay with 2% growth you're showing.
You've got OE growth aftermarket I think it's flight hours growth so at least mid-single digits.
So I'm just wondering given that defense is probably going to be closer to flat in the second half at least that's what it seems like given you're 8% down this quarter what am I missing? I guess is it just conservatism at this point given the sense or is there something else? No I dont think you're missing anything.
On the defense side as Elena said we'll get a nice bump in the third quarter because of the comps that we had last year.
Overall the second half is  will be what you see there but for the year we're still going to be down in defense.
In terms of first half to second half the R&amp;O timing that we saw in the first quarter we're going to start seeing that starting so that's going to help us quite a bit in the second half.
I mentioned the BGAs.
So I think the 2% that we're showing for the full year is a full reflection of all the equipment deck that we've got.
Peter I'm going to add we also have some launch contributions factored into the second half outlook for BGA OE.
Its' not significant but obviously that does impact the  it's currently scheduled for the third quarter which would be obviously a drag on revenues.
And then just quickly on just  on the aftermarket trends in general are you seeing any differences from a geography standpoint? I mean it seems China was up 14% but that seems to be a very volatile number.
I remember two years ago it was up 40% one quarter.
So what are you seeing in general there? In terms of the aftermarket? Yeah just from a geography standpoint any differences that you can call out? Yeah well you recall in the fourth quarter the U.S.
saw high double-digit spare growth.
We continue to see that in the first quarter for this year in terms of the ATR spares.
Europe call it relatively muted growth and China obviously is a big comp but versus an easier comp in the first quarter of last year.
I think Peter I dropped) you in the past on flight hours versus how spares orders go? I'm sorry Dave can you repeat that? I think I've drawn my little chart for you in the past showing how flight hours grow at a relatively stable rate but spares ordering around those flight hours vary significantly.
Yes you have yeah correct.
If I take a look at China that more of what you're seeing the 40% a few years ago was a pre-buy given the tightening what you saw after that was the tightening now what you're seeing is catchup.
At some point its coming back [ph] Our next question is coming from Shannon O'Callaghan with Nomura.
Just maybe a little follow-up on the commercial aero piece in terms of the OE sales growth I mean in the quarter can you give us the spilt kind of AT regional BGA and how that flows as you're talking about the second half OE acceleration? So Shannon on the ATR OE component of it and this is [indiscernible] what we talked about in the December outlook call and again in the fourth quarter earnings release but you are seeing very strong growth on the air transport side offset by declines in regional jet sales.
Also we have some free-of-charge systems that again we're expensing or recognizing as we're incurring them.
Those continue  that's the outlook really for the duration of this year.
So the fundamentals don't change more in flat.
So that's core growth and I guess you would maybe likely expect to see where we're just plugging in the air transport component of it but the regional piece is obviously putting a drag on our overall sales.
I'd add on the BGA side the first quarter growth that you saw we'll continue to throughout the course of the year so a mid-single digit growth on BGA when we look for the year.
When does the regional kind of pressure ease? We're hoping that that certainly gets better in 2015 but largely dependent upon the overall market.
Just on free cash flow definitely applaud the changed definition so thanks for that.
I was just wondering if you have the kind of updated numbers for this year of what you've built in for NARCO pension and the cash taxes in the appendix you have them for sort of what they were in '13 do you have those numbers of what you've baked in for '14? In terms of the big bucket Shannon I'll just walk through a few of them.
On cash pensions we're now attracting zero in 2014 for cash pension and that's versus the previous estimate of about $100 million before contributions.
On the NARCO component of it we were previously excluding the establishment payments for NARCO which were roughly call it $200 million pre-tax and that's still the expectation but we've just now embedded that in for free cash flow forecast.
And obviously you've got to wait I guess until the  well no you would know the cash taxes right so what about the available for sale piece what's that? You're talking about on the BU [ph] share? Yeah yeah because you're baking that in now too right? Yeah the first quarter impact was included in the Q1 free cash flow.
Okay right.
So that's already baked in and there's no more.
Yeah.
All right Tony we'll now conclude today's call.
I want to turn it over to Dave Cote for any final remarks.
All right thanks guys.
Well we've had a nice start to the year and as a result we feel confident in raising total year guidance for both earnings per share and cash flow outperforming in the short-term while seed planting for the long-term continues to be an important dynamic for us.
We intend to not just outperform this year but also over the next five years.
So thank you for listening and I hope all of you have a marvellous Easter weekend.
See you.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Honeywell's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be open for your questions following the presentation.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Elena Doom Vice President of Investor Relations.
Good morning.
Thank you Leo.
Welcome to Honeywells second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Here with me today are Chairman and CEO Dave Cote; and Senior Vice President and CFO Tom Szlosek.
This call and webcast including our non-GAAP reconciliations are available on our website at honeywell.com/investor.
Note that elements of today's presentation do contain forward-looking statements that are based on our best view of the world and of our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change and we would ask that you interpret them in that light.
We do identify the principal risks and uncertainties that affect our performance in our Form 10-K and other SEC filings.
This morning we will review our financial results for the second quarter then review our outlook for the second half and the rest of the year and then leave time of course for your questions.
So with that Ill turn the call over to Dave Cote.
Thanks Elena.
As Im sure youve seen by now Honeywell had another terrific quarter and a very good first half 2014.
EPS of $1.38 increased 12% year-over-year when normalizing for tax so another quarter of double-digit EPS growth with earnings coming in above the high-end of our guidance range.
We saw strong execution across the portfolio with margin expansion in each of our four businesses.
Were continuing to benefit from our enablers and keep process initiatives that are delivering growth and productivity benefits and were achieving this while continuing to invest for the future planting the seeds that will drive our performance and achievements of our new five-year plan.
In the quarter we were encouraged to see that our organic sales growth accelerated to 3%.
We saw continued improvement in our short cycle order rates quarter progress with steady growth in ESS a return to growth in advanced materials especially in flooring products and a continued healthy pace of recovery in Transportation Systems.
Our robust long-cycle backlog which stands at 15.7 billion up 4% from the end of last year continues to support a favorable outlook with record orders for UOP and a continued uptick in new process solutions orders.
Weve also seen a moderation of the sales declines in Defense and Space that we saw earlier in the year.
Speaking of D&amp;S Im encouraged to see that the headwinds are nearly behind us.
Were expecting growth in D&amp;S in the third quarter.
In fact we had 9% international growth in this last quarter.
And early indications point to a modest increase next year.
We recently celebrated the sentential anniversary of innovation and leadership in the Aerospace and the oil and gas industries two examples of where we have great positions and good industries.
Honeywell Aerospace has been a pioneer in aviation for the last 100 years offering products and services that can be found on virtually every aircraft worldwide.
Weve led the way from the beginning with firsts like the first autopilot the first truly automatic flight management system and the first trans-Atlantic biofuel flight.
And we have differentiated through disruptive technologies across our electrical and mechanical portfolios as well as our push at the global connectivity as youve seen with recent partnership announcements with Inmarsat and AT&amp;T.
In oil and gas where our UOP business created the first conversion technology for upgrading crude oil jumpstarting the modern oil refining industry were a driving force for innovation for the global petroleum and natural gas industries.
Today our leadership continues with new process technologies designed to get more valuable products from every barrel of oil convert coal and natural gas into plastics and convert biofeed stocks such as algae into renewable fuels.
We not only saw double-digit sales growth this quarter in UOP but record orders in backlogs so the future continues to be promising.
Another innovation Id like to point out is our new Lyric thermostat designed for how people really live today.
Using the location of your smartphone the geofencing feature automatically turns the thermostat into energy saving mode when a home is empty.
It senses when youre coming home and heats or cools the house to your preferred temperature.
Its just another example of how the Honeywell user experience or HUE depending upon how you want to pronounce it enables us to move quickly to develop exciting new products that are easy to use easy to maintain easy to install and exceed customer needs.
ECC has seen continued good growth to the retail channel and thats up 40% in the second quarter.
We think the portfolio is well positioned aligned to favorable macro trends and there is significant runway to grow.
We remain confident in our outlook for this year.
As a result of our first half performance we are raising the low end of our guidance again by $0.05 giving us a new pro forma EPS guidance range $5.45 to $5.55 or up 10% to 12% for the year.
The closing of the sale of Friction Materials was a significant step in positioning our existing portfolio for continued outperformance.
We also realigned the Transportation Systems business segment into Aerospace to better take advantage of the engineering and technology similarities and the shared operating practices with two businesses.
Under the realigned segment reporting structure the parts of Friction were keeping will remain under Transportation Systems reported within Aerospace.
We just concluded our strategic planning reviews with our businesses and in these all-day sessions each of our businesses presents their five-year strategic plan.
While were not expecting much help from the macro environment I can tell you that each business has a strong roadmap for the 2018 targets we laid out for you back in March.
The growth opportunities and new product pipeline are quite impressive.
We approached the finished line of our previous five-year targets confident in the strong foundation in place for continued outperformance.
We have great positions in good industries.
Were investing both organically and inorganically to grow faster than the markets we serve and well stay the course on seed planting and continuous improvement initiatives.
Were going to stay flexible and deliver on 2014 and beyond.
So with that Ill turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Dave and good morning.
On Slide 4 let me walk you through the financial results for the second quarter.
Sales of 10.3 billion were up approximately 6% on a reported basis.
Thats 3% organically.
It came in just above the high-end of our guidance range.
As we highlighted previously the low first quarter organic growth was a bit of an anomaly with declines in Defense and Space and scanning mobility driving roughly two points of top line decline in the first quarter.
As we signaled these headwinds have dissipated.
The contributions in 2Q from the businesses were broad-based with each SPG sales growth at or above the guidance we had communicated.
Regionally organic sales were up 2% in the U.S.
despite the drag from defense and space; 5% in Europe Middle East and Africa and 10% in China.
In China we saw a good growth in our short-cycle businesses namely ESS and Transportation Systems in addition to continued long-cycle growth particularly in UOP and process solutions.
Once again our quality of earnings was strong with most of the improvement coming from segment profit which increased 10% in the quarter.
Segment margins expanded 60 basis points to 16.7%.
Thats 70 basis points excluding the dilutive impact of M&amp;A and 20 basis points higher than the top end of our guidance.
We had profit growth and margin expansion in all four businesses so really a balanced contribution across the portfolio.
Its also notable that the better-than-expected performance from Intermec reduced the segment margin dilution from M&amp;A in the quarter.
Overall we continue to see significant benefits from our productivity initiatives and proactive restructuring actions while continuing to invest for growth.
Items below segment profit were mostly as anticipated.
Youll recall that in the second quarter of 2013 youll recognize an OPEB curtailment gain of $42 million which was more than offset at the time by restructuring actions so really no year-over-year net impact.
In the second quarter of 2014 we funded 14 million of restructuring projects bringing the total for the year to approximately 100 million.
On a reported basis the tax rate of 26.1% in the quarter represented a $0.06 headwind compared to the second quarter of 2013 and about a $0.01 tailwind relative to our guidance.
EPS was $0.38 $0.02 above the high end of our guidance range; $0.01 was from operations and $0.01 came from the better tax rate I mentioned.
EPS increased 8% on a reported basis or 12% when you normalize for the income tax rate.
This was again driven by the 10% increase in segment profit slightly more favorable below the line items and a minor benefit from lower share count.
Finally on free cash flow approximately 1.1 billion in the quarter 5% higher than 2013 and 101% conversion despite a 17% increase in CapEx and higher cash taxes.
Year-to-date free cash flow was up 28% through the first half.
Moving to Slide 5 were looking at Aerospace.
Now this is prior to the realignment of Transportation Systems and Aerospace.
Well adopt that change in the third quarter.
Youll also see us file an 8-K in the third quarter reflect this change on our historical reporting.
So when it comes all the forward-looking guidance that Ill touch on later we do reflect the new reporting structure.
So Aerospace sales were flat in the quarter which is in line with our guidance with 1% commercial sales growth offset by 1% decline in Defense and Space.
Despite the challenging top line segment margin was up 30 basis points driven by commercial excellence and productivity net of inflation partially offset by BGA OEM payments a higher mix of OE content and investments in growth programs.
The flat commercial OE sales reflect strong growth in large air transport driven by OE build rates offset by lower regional jet sales engine shipment timing and higher BGA OEM payments.
Now as a reminder we have won significant content on a number of new OE platforms and have and will continue to incur upfront costs as a result.
These costs are fully contemplated in the five-year planning we have shared with you and are accounting for these costs is very conservative compared to the industry.
The Aerospace business model is fully intact and these wins coupled with the exciting new technology offerings in aero give us full confidence that the growth will accelerate over the five years in our plan.
Commercial aftermarket sales up 1% in the quarter with continued strong spares growth in both ATR and BGA.
This strength was offset by lower R&amp;O revenues a reflection of fewer maintenance events and timing particularly in business aviation.
Aftermarket backlog levels in R&amp;O along with robust spares demand underpinned an acceleration of aftermarket growth in 3Q.
Defense and Space sales were down 1% but a nice improvement from the 8% decline in the first quarter.
U.S.
defense aftermarket and government services declined significantly moderated from first quarter levels and growth in international markets which Dave referenced earlier helped to offset those declines.
Defense and Space is tracking to a 3% decline for the full year.
On Slide 6 were looking at ACS results for the second quarter.
ACS sales were up 10% on a reported basis and 3% on an organic basis in line with our expectations.
The difference in the two rates principally reflects the contributions of Intermec.
Looking at the businesses ESS sales so the products businesses were up 4% organic with ECC and scanning and mobility showing particularly strong growth.
ECC continues to benefit from strong residential end markets and new product introductions particularly in the retail channel.
Dave talked about Lyric and overall the thermostat category is performing very well for us.
As for scanning and mobility following the ramp-down of certain large programs in Q1 it returned a strong organic growth in the second quarter.
New wins which ramped over the course of the year are driving sustained growth.
Intermec also continues to perform very well supplementing the growth were seeing out of the core HSM business.
Our fire safety and gas businesses have shown continued strength as well.
On a regional basis penetration of high growth regions remains a big driver of growth in ESS as we saw strong double-digit growth in both China and the Middle East.
Moving to Building Solutions and Distribution sales were up 2% with strength in the Americas distribution business offsetting pockets of weakness in Building Solutions specifically the U.S.
energy retrofit business.
We are encouraged however as Building Solutions project and services backlog continues to grow.
Id like to take a minute to comment on what were seeing in the commercial building sector.
Weve seen modest improvement from the first quarter to the second quarter in the ESS products business as a service sector primarily ECC and fire safety.
We are anticipating further improvements in the second half.
In the Americas energy business as I said orders have been delayed due to financing and municipal contract holdup.
While the projects can be lumpy we are seeing bid activity heating up especially in the Middle East and China and energy efficient projects globally.
This along with the easing of year-over-year comps gives us confidence that our commercial building related sales will modestly accelerate in the second half.
Moving to ACS margins expansion of 50 basis points to 14.8% in the quarter up 80 basis points including M&amp;A.
ACS continues to benefit from productivity net of inflation commercial excellence as well as higher volume while also continuing to invest for future growth.
Moving to Slide 7 Performance Materials and Technologies PMT sales were 2.6 billion up 6% organic and were above the high-end of our guidance driven primarily by stronger than expected results in UOP.
UOP sales increased 17% in the quarter driven by increased catalysts and gas processing sales reflecting continued strong refining petrochemical and gas markets.
UOP had a record quarter for both orders and backlog which currently stands at 2.6 billion.
We saw a continuation of orders for [transient] (ph) gas processing particularly with Thomas Russell.
So continued benefit in UOP from oil and gas investments occurring globally.
In process solutions sales were flat on an organic basis primarily driven by a couple of large projects completed in the prior period offsetting growth across the remainder of the portfolio and high margin areas like services and advanced software solutions.
Process solutions orders growth accelerated in the quarter up approximately 7% organic and as we will preview modest sales acceleration is expected in the second half of the year.
Advanced Material Sales increased 5% in the quarter.
We saw volume increases across the businesses with particular strength in flooring products driven by new global warming molecule offering.
These volume increases were partially offset by unfavorable pricing particularly in Resins and Chemicals as weve been signaling.
We expect these pricing headwinds to moderate in the second half of the year.
Segment margins for PMT were up 30 basis points to 18% consistent with our expectation driven by productivity net of inflation and higher volume partially offset by price raw headwinds and Resins and Chemicals unfavorable UOP catalyst shipment mix and continued investments for growth.
On Slide 8 you can see Transportation Systems which again to remind you includes Friction Materials for the second quarter.
TS had another strong quarter with sales up 8% thats 4% without foreign exchange and segment margin expansion of 310 basis points.
The sales increase was primarily driven by turbo volume growth across our three largest regions; Europe North America and China.
In each of these regions our volume growth outpaced auto production.
The growth were seeing in Europe was strong in both the light and commercial vehicle segments.
Weve benefited from an uptick in European commercial vehicle demand primarily driven by the Euro 6 regulation shift in the region.
Outside of Europe both North America and China saw strong volume increases in light vehicles both diesel and gas which more than offset lower commercial vehicle volume sales in those regions.
In North America specifically commercial off-highway sales remained soft consistent with trends in mining and agriculture segments.
Overall we continue to benefit from improving global industrial macros on vehicle production regulation turbo penetration and our strong win rates.
As we begin to lap the strong second half performance in 2013 however we do expect some moderation in these growth rates beginning in 4Q 2014.
The segment margin improvement to 16.4% reflects the strong productivity and a volume leverage in turbo and the benefits from restructuring and other operational improvements.
With the closing of the Friction Materials divestiture behind us lets now turn to Slide 9 and walk through our guidance for the third quarter under our new reporting structure.
Were expecting sales of 9.9 billion to 10.1 billion which will be up 3% to 5% reported or 3% to 4% on an organic basis.
Segment margins are expected to be up approximately 50 basis points and earnings per share is expected to be in the range of $1.37 to $1.42 up 10% to 15% from the prior year.
For Aerospace as I indicated earlier we are providing guidance under the new reporting structure with Transportation Systems included.
Sales growth on a reported basis is expected to be flat to down 2% in the quarter reflecting the year-over-year absence of Friction Materials sales in the quarter.
On an organic basis or in other words without the Friction business sales are expected to be up approximately 2% to 3% with growth across the portfolio; Commercial Defense and Space and Transportation Systems.
In Commercial OE sales are expected to be approximately flat year-over-year with continued growth in ATR offsetting declines in BGA similar to the second quarter.
However we are expecting acceleration in aftermarket growth in the quarter up low single digit driven by continued spares strength and higher airline maintenance event.
Were also expecting to see a return to growth in Defense and Space as Dave indicated up low to mid single digits where international programs continue to drive growth.
In Transportation Systems were expecting mid single digit organic sales growth in the quarter and as for margins we expect an increase of approximately 150 basis points with significant contributions from both the Aerospace and TS businesses.
For ACS sales are expected to be up between 8% and 10% or 3% to 4% on an organic basis.
And as a reminder we closed Intermec in the third quarter of 2013 so this will be the last quarter of M&amp;A impact from that transaction.
Organically we expect continued mid single digit growth in ESS and improvement in BSD.
Our short-cycle orders have been trending up at ESS and the backlog is growing in Building Solutions.
Both trends bode well for our third quarter outlook.
ACS margins are expected to be up approximately 20 basis points or approximately 40 basis points excluding the dilutive impact from M&amp;A.
ACS continues to ramp their investment for growth in new products as well as adding speed on the street as we continue to further penetrate high growth regions.
In PMT sales are expected to increase between 4% and 6% in the third quarter.
In UOP we foresee another quarter of increased catalyst growth however similar to the first half product mix in Q3 will result in a headwind for UOP margins.
As a reminder UOP sales can be lumpy quarter-to-quarter based on the timing of product and as such we are forecasting a sales decline of approximately 10% in the fourth quarter for UOP against a much more challenging comp.
However our outlook for the year remains intact for mid single digit growth in UOP and with the record orders in backlog we experienced in Q2 we expect strong growth to continue over our five-year plan.
In HPS after several quarters in a row of strong orders growth were expecting to see sales accelerate in the back half of the year carrying into 2015 with continued strong margin expansion.
The increased orders growth will really start to show in the fourth quarter as were expecting high single digit sales growth for HPS.
In Advanced Materials we anticipate another quarter of broad sales growth across the portfolio including improved production levels in Resins and Chemicals and increased sales of global warming products and flooring products.
Overall TMT segment margins are expected to be up slightly versus the prior year reflecting similar trends that we explained for Q2 with the exception that pricing pressures in Advanced Materials are expected to moderate.
Let me move to Slide 10 where Id like to take a moment to refresh our 2014 segment outlook.
This guidance reflects the realignment of Transportation Systems and Aerospace as well the transition of process solutions into PMT that occurred in 2Q.
Let me explain the setup here.
The left half represents the guidance we provided in April so with process solutions already in PMT but prior to the sale of Friction Materials and prior to the movement of TS.
The right side reflects our current outlook including the Friction Materials divestiture and the realignment of Transportation Systems in Aero.
At the bottom of the page you can see our new sales guidance which reflects the absence of approximately 300 million Friction Materials sales in the second half and our increased segment margins guidance for the year driven by our strong first half performance and the margin accretion we will experience from the absence of Friction Materials sales in the second half.
There are some comparable dynamics to be aware of as you think about the full year.
First in Aerospace with the inclusion of Transportation Systems were expecting 4Q sales to be down low single digit on a reported basis but up about 1% to 2% on an organic basis driven primarily by the timing of OE shipments in our air transport business.
However you can see the significant margin expansion were expecting this year with contributions from both Aerospace and Transportation Systems businesses.
Also as I referenced we expect a decline in 4Q sales in UOP all timing and comp related.
And I want to reiterate that we anticipate another year of good growth in 2015 from UOP given of the significant multiyear backlog were building in it.
There are some minor puts and takes but no real changes to ACS or PMT from their prior outlooks with continued margin expansion in both businesses.
Turning to the next slide Slide 11 you can see the basis for the 3Q 4Q and raised full year guidance.
Full year sales are now expected to be 40.2 billion to 40.4 billion reflecting first half performance and a modest organic sales acceleration in the second half.
Estimated full year sales are lower at the midpoint from our previous guidance reflecting the absence of approximately 300 million of Friction Materials sales in the second half.
So on an organic basis we continue to expect about 3% growth for the full year.
Although acceleration is expected in the second half most notably in Defense and Space process solutions and Advanced Materials we will see tougher comps in the fourth quarter specifically in UOP and Aerospace as I mentioned.
As youll recall we saw strong acceleration in organic growth at the end of 2013 with growth of 5% in the fourth quarter of last year.
On segment margin weve increased our full year guidance and now expect 16.8% to 17% up about 60 basis points at the midpoint versus last year.
On EPS were raising the bottom end of our pro forma guidance by $0.05 taking the new range $5.45 to $5.55 or increase to 10% to 12% versus the prior year.
We are planning for a 26.5% tax rate in 3Q with 4Q just slightly higher to get to our full planning assumption of 26.5%.
So overall we feel like were executing well and delivering on the high end of our 2014 commitment.
Im now on Slide 12 and before wrapping up I want to give you an update on our new five-year plan of 2018.
On a total Honeywell basis the targets are identical with those we shared at the March Investor Day.
However the individual components now reflect our new business segment reporting structure.
So even with the Friction Materials divestiture the overall Honeywell targets are identical to those originally communicated.
Were continuing to target a 4% to 6% organic sales CAGR and segment margin in the range of 18.5% to 20% by 2018 which is 220 to 370 basis points improvement from 2013; strong earnings growth which you come to expect from Honeywell.
On the left side of the page you can see the previous outlook by business based on our old reporting structure.
Moving to the right side of the page our current targets now reflect the combined Aerospace and Transportation Systems businesses less Friction Materials as well as HPS transitioned to PMT.
So minor puts and takes but overall very consistent with what youve heard in March and a significant contribution across the portfolio.
As Dave continues to emphasize the growth and margin story it doesnt end in 2018.
Each of our businesses still has significant runway based on the continued evolution of our internal processes global growth and execution and the value we add for the customer through innovation and the Honeywell user experience so even more to come.
Let me finish on Slide 13.
The second quarter results put us another step closer to delivering on the high expectations for 2014 we laid out in December.
The pace of acceleration in organic growth over the course of the quarter gives us confidence in our second half outlook where we expect a modest uptick in organic growth and a continuation of strong productivity.
Were going to keep investing for our future focused on our new five-year plan innovation and new product introductions which are the lifeblood of our growth remain a key priority as well as the investments were making to further penetrate high growth regions.
We feel confident that our balance portfolio mix alignment to favorable macro trends and focused cost discipline will enable us to continue to outperform and were focused on executing sustainable restructuring productivity actions including delivering on the strong restructuring project pipeline weve already fund.
So with that Elena lets go to Q&amp;A.
Thanks Tom.
Leo will now take our first question.
The floor is now open for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question is coming from Scott Davis of Barclays.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Hi.
You didnt really talk much about M&amp;A in the release right Id say not at all but Roger Fradin now has had a couple of months in the role.
I mean can you give us a sense of how hes progressing as far as pipeline and changing the M&amp;A process and your confidence in being able to do deals in the next 12 months? Yes Scott Im happy to answer that.
As you know historically our approach to M&amp;A has been really a bottoms-up process from the businesses.
So each business has resources it has an action plan to maintain a robust portfolio of M&amp;A targets and thats what youre seeing generate the deals that are done over here.
And as you alluded to did the appointment of Roger into the Vice Chairmans role and one of the things Dave tends to do was to focus with our M&amp;A team on the pipeline and that portfolio.
So weve kind of gotten a top sound focus from Roger in addition to the process that weve had in our history.
So what youve got is youve got two ways of looking at it and when you look across the portfolio we are seeing quite a bit of interest as a result of this process.
As you know were quite active in looking at potential deals in Aerospace ACS and in PMT and I think that activity will continue.
For what its worth Scott Tom has also said he enjoys having Roger report to him on that.
Well good luck.
Well be watching closely on that.
But guys can you give us a better sense  I mean Ive struggled to understand this business for a lot of years and Im talking about UOP and kind of the quarter-by-quarter variability.
I mean its a fantastic business but I have no idea how you forecast or how you  youre really having in confidence one quarter to the next in that regard.
But how does a business like that have such a strong quarter without there being an inventory build or some sort of  something going on at the customer level that may come back and bite you in the tail in a quarter or two? I mean I just dont understand it I guess.
Ill answer first and turn it over to Tom but Id say on an annual basis its pretty forecastable.
They dont have a lot of inventory to have to fool with in the first place.
A lot of this is a technology sale.
I mean there is some inventory but not a huge amount.
Its between quarters that can be more variable but even that variability is generally forecastable.
Its just that you can end up with lumpiness when it comes to one quarter versus another but we generally have a pretty good handle on whats going out the door.
Yes I think Dave hit it on the head Scott.
It is quite lumpy but because of the long-cycle nature of it and we referenced the backlog earlier.
I mean we had a record backlog 2.6 billion up double digit from last year and we have good insight into whats going to happen quarter-over-quarter and that backlog dissipates and will end up in our P&amp;L over a fairly short timeframe a year and a half to two years.
So we do feel like we have a good track on forecasting that.
Okay.
And last just quickly.
Guys we used to think about  in TS we used to think about turbo as being one of those businesses that was kind of 600 basis points over to auto SAR maybe a little bit better in some quarters maybe a little bit worst.
But has that changed at all? I mean is there a different thought process in how that grows versus auto SAR globally? Well we do end up with a regional mix difference that can impact us because weve got a strong position in Euro diesel and that was one of the things that really helped us with that industry bottoming out this year so all the wins finally started to show up as opposed to mitigating the decline we were seeing in Euro auto.
But overall yes its going to continue to grow well for a long time.
Yes I mean I guess what Id say is that I reemphasize that the growth profile that weve got going I mean its in all of our big regions; I mean in North America both on the diesel and gas side with strong double digit growth Chinas strong double digit growth on both diesel and gas as well and Europes doing pretty well as well and the commercial vehicle side in Europe particularly is very strong.
But thats 600 basis points above SAR I mean is that changed or are you punting on the answer? Scott I would say that youre seeing light vehicle production in the quarter was flat and so for turbo we had organic growth of 5% so 500 basis points was within that range.
Okay good.
Thats what I really wanted to know.
Thanks guys.
Good quarter and thanks.
Good luck.
Thanks Scott.
Our next question comes from Steven Winoker of Sanford Bernstein.
Hi.
Thanks and good morning everybody.
Hi Steve.
Dave just an initial question on that turbo move and transport to Aero how much is cost a part of that or should I say how much cost reduction are you expecting from de-layering? Is there any in there in addition to the technology justification? No not really.
In fact our turbo business is pretty lean already and Im hoping when we reference operating practices in the release Im hoping for more leanness to transfer into the Aero business looking at turbo as a model.
Okay.
So the rationale here is sort of subscale in existing  separate reporting segment now.
Obviously the technology is always overlapped but you could have gotten that otherwise and maybe some practice opportunities here.
Is that how I should think about it? I might modify that a bit.
I agree on size.
Subscale I dont know whether Id call it that.
Including that industry their scale is quite good.
On the technology side its one thing to tell two businesses that hey would you guys cooperate but I could say over 12 years theres been an evolution there.
It used to be the Aero business wanted to charge the turbo business $200 000 per person for cooperation.
Yes you might remember those days.
Things have changed a lot and weve progressed to the point where we co-locate engineers as Ive mentioned in the past.
That being said you still get a different dynamic when you put the businesses together.
Were putting them together in a way that allows us to get much further advantage on that technology benefit that we have with Aero technology because turbo is just a derivation of a jet engine and were the only guys who have that.
We want to take further advantage of it but Im also hoping for a lot more of those lean practices to transition into Aero because the Aerospace industry is lets say right with opportunity when it comes to running more leanly than it does today.
And while Im pretty proud of what weve been able to do where weve been able to get to it at the end of the day I think there is still one hell of a lot more opportunity there for us and this is a good way to have best practices in-house that they can be looking at.
Okay.
And speaking of moving organizationally to drive better financial results HPS within PMT now but just maybe talk about the projects that are completed? Its down 1% flat organic but again this sort of North American build out that suggest that theyre very very early stages.
What are you seeing there? Any hopes that we should anticipate a ramp up soon? Steve like we said first of all there is a lot of excitement around the combination of those two businesses and we do think that marketwise its going to enable us to better serve the common customer base thats there.
I think youre referring specifically to HPS.
I mean the second quarter orders were very strong up 7% on an organic basis and thats another quarter of pretty good growth for them on the order side.
As I said that hasnt factored into our full year guidance UOP as well.
As I said both orders and backlog are strong.
Talked about the lumpiness but the same trajectory.
Both of those businesses [really fits] (ph).
And unlike the TS1 that Dave said I do hope we get a little bit of productivity out of that combination as well.
Okay.
And just lastly you mentioned you just wrapped up the STRAP process.
Again just remind me what macro assumptions did you give the business the STUs to use for the five-year plan in terms of top line base growth? I think we used the global insights GDP forecast like 3%...
Okay.
About 3% to 3.5% is kind of the assumption globally.
I mean a lot different than what we said back in March just because I dont think that much has changed since that time.
I think the FX we assume at about 30.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Ill hand it off.
Thanks Steve.
Our next question comes from Steve Tusa of JPMorgan.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hi Steve.
How bad is UOP going to be in the fourth quarter? What an interesting way to put it.
I dont know whether I would say it is bad I would say its all contemplated within our fourth quarter guidance which you can see churned up pretty well for the year.
I dont know Tom if theres anything else you want to add there? No I mean full year UOP will be 5% as I said down 8% in the fourth quarter.
First quarter was 9% the past quarter was 17%.
Well see mid single digits in the third quarter and probably 8% to 10% down in the fourth quarter.
But full year we remain on track and again that order and backlog should be very strong.
Yes I dont think there is an issue with trend of the business Im just trying to kind of reconcile the 3% organic growth you did this quarter and the only thing that really seems to be getting worst just on lumpiness or a quarterly basis whatever is in the math would be UOP.
I mean everything actually seems to be looking better like accelerating and so Im just kind of like the 3% organic even with UOP which is dramatic with 8% is a pretty big number.
So Im just trying to reconcile that 3% you did this quarter versus why with things getting better why that should be 3% in the fourth quarter? I think we also mentioned that we do have other softer comps in particular Aerospace for OE and also the Transportation Systems relative to both were up mid teens in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Right.
But I mean you didnt really grow in commercial Aero this quarter so are you going to be done in commercial Aero in the fourth quarter? Our ATR OE growth this quarter was [over 6] (ph).
Okay.
So there was  the jet stuff kind of offset that okay.
Your thesis Steve is not  the way youre talking about it seems reasonable.
Right okay.
And then I guess Im just going to ask this every quarter and this quarter was particularly interesting because DuPont preannounced negatively and I got a flood of emails about R-22 pricing.
I dont really get chemicals  the question is around chemicals pricing for a lot of the other companies that I follow and with the re-segmentation you just did you kind of went to a little less disclosure which I dont particularly view as a good thing.
Is this the final kind of iteration of outside of acquisitions of what the portfolio looks like or could we maybe breakout the more process kind of oil and gas related businesses and maybe again kind of at some point evaluate this chemical business as a part of the Honeywell portfolio? I would say in terms of our organization I kind of like it just the way it is now.
Okay so no change.
No.
Okay thanks.
If it was you couldnt expect me to say anything anyway Steve so Its my job to ask the question.
Thanks.
All right.
Our next question comes from Jeff Sprague of Vertical Research.
Thank you.
Good morning folks.
Hi Jeff.
Hi.
How is it going? Could we get a little more color on the commercial building for U.S.
specifically? The color Tom gave I think it was global and helpful but Im going to lay the land on U.S.
specifically if you have it? Yes I would say Jeff the growth in the products business that are serving commercial buildings are reasonable I mean mid single digits in the second quarter.
I expect that to continue for the remainder of the year if not accelerate a little bit more modestly.
In terms of the pure building solutions business the business in the U.S.
was tempered a bit by the energy business.
We have a couple of really large projects completed since 2013 that tempered the sale.
In terms of the orders broke there its flat globally but on the Americas side its been picking up to mid to high single digits.
Mid to high single digit U.S.
energy retrofit but global flat on orders? Yes.
Okay.
Thank you.
And I was just wondering Dave if you could address Europe a little bit more specifically? I think the plus 5 was in an EMEA comment.
That was kind of core Europe actually doing and was running a slowdown in Europe in the quarter in June that you noticed? Overall what kind of interesting is our Europe orders have actually done okay as youve been hearing us say for the last two or three quarters.
So Im a little surprised actually given that the overall economy doesnt perform all that well and we dont have a lot of expectation to the economy to perform all that well over the say next two or three years.
That being said our orders were okay there.
And just one final one from me and Ill move on perhaps too granular for this call but are you seeing any signs of kind of toppiness pressure in the commercial helicopter market? No I dont think so.
We actually think thats going to be a pretty good market for a while.
Yes.
Just some cautionary comments out of Eurocopter this week and Farm Bureau and some toppiness at [Bell] (ph) also.
Maybe its just some noise in the quarter Im not sure what their expectation was either but Id say overall we still think thats a growth market.
Great.
Thank you guys.
Take care.
Youre welcome.
Our next question comes from Howard Rubel of Jefferies.
Good morning.
Hi Howard.
How are you? Good.
Number look nice.
Thank you.
A couple of things.
You never stop pushing excellence and while Friction Materials is the last obvious divestiture how do you think about keeping the guys at the back of the line equal with the people outperforming at the front? Well thats something we pay a lot of attention to all the time and in several different ways.
One of the things well be doing that more in the future is through this HOS Gold effort that youve heard us talk about and as especially as we go through the planning or what we call STRAP exercise we spent a lot of time looking at that.
And I cant say that we look at it with threatened to fail if they dont kind of come up to par but at the end of the day Id say Im really encouraged by the upside I see across the portfolio and the implementation of HOS Gold and the ability to raise sales growth and margin rates everywhere.
And then kind of staying with that theme youre spending a lot of money on new products and you highlighted a couple of them in ACS.
Can you sort of talk about are you getting the productivity you want and are there  how do you think about maybe  how much of this is contributing to organic growth as opposed to just the normal economy? Sorry to products or productivity Howard? Well I guess Ill mix them both.
I mean one is the productivity associated with new product development and then second is how is that contributing to the organic growth Tom? First off if you look at it in pure financial metrics were not decelerating at all on investment with new product.
For example if you look at R&amp;D investments its not  thats not per se generating productivity but when you look at productivity across direct materials and our people costs I would say that has been as strong as it has been in the last couple of years which is the way I look at it.
And then last Intermec looks like youre getting the top line you expected.
How would you evaluate where you are in terms of the integration process and when do we really see its profitability normalize with the rest of the business units? Yes Id say Howard the way we look at that one is a year ago everybody  when we closed the deal it was a business that was not very profitable at all and you fast forward to now and if you look at what weve done just to look at the multiple that we pay in Intermec today and you would say were at 17 18 times multiple.
And you factor in synergies its gotten and that are in place were down to sub 5 type multiples.
It kind of gives you an idea that we feel like weve been successful.
So when you look at the plan itself when you look at both revenues and the income and the cash all of those metrics were performing a lot better than the plans.
John and his team with Scanning and Mobility as well as the Intermec have really have done a nice job integrating those two businesses.
Thank you very much.
Youre welcome.
Our next question comes from John Inch of Deutsche Bank.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Hi John.
Good morning.
So how did your businesses  I realize its not a huge exposure but how did your businesses fair in Latin America and the (indiscernible) does market weakness in Latin America Dave Cote maybe provide you an opportunity perhaps with respect to capital and deployment or step up some investment spending there or something like that? We continue to do very well with everything south of the Rio Grande and you look at the big ones; Mexico and Brazil we continue to do well there.
Mexico weve got about 14 000 employees.
In Brazil weve got about 1 000 and our sales have been quite good there.
In terms of investing I still think that there are places where you think about it before you do it.
Its not a no-brainer.
But overall those have been very good markets for us.
Your Brazilian business is up in the quarter? Yes.
Defense and Space were there any pockets of Defense and Space or expectations of Defense and Space pockets like within the framework of that business that you expect to actually get better over the course of the year? And Im curious kind of how if anything has changed with respect to how you were seeing this business how are youre going to manage it? Im assuming it kind of gets managed down over time but maybe not? Yes John the way I think of the Defense and Space business is it has two pieces of products business where were dealing with the U.S.
government and/or the prime contractors.
And then theres the service business thats largely unrelated to the Aerospace industry and thats where were seeing the most pressure.
Thankfully its a lower margin business but thats where the top line for Defense and Space are the most pronounced for us.
Were now approaching periods where were going to start lapping comps so that pressure will subside.
The other thing weve got going on there is the international side.
If youve read the paper this morning I mean unfortunately those things happen but that tends to bode well for military budgets outside of the U.S.
and so were seeing an uptick as Dave referenced in sales in the international side of Defense and Space.
So you got some balancing dynamics going there.
I think theyll net to the positive as we head into the second half of the year.
The other thing to recognize John is as weve said before Defense is really more of a sales channel for us.
Its not like we have  while the jet engine might be unique to a certain defense application at the end of the day its still coming out of a jet engine factory that also produced in commercial.
Right and all incremental.
Maybe one more.
Global markets Dave Cote kind of do not begin to show more signs of life.
I realize youre outperforming today but lets call it over the course of the coming year.
Does that cause you to perhaps modify or even accelerate aspects of your operating framework to hit or totally exceed your five-year targets? Well as you know Ive been one the guys who has generally been more negative on the global outlook for the last four years and so far it has been a pretty good call.
So Id say the way weve forecasted this year and the way weve looked at our five-year plan is pretty consistent with that.
I never counted on much and so far it has been a good call.
So I feel pretty good about where we are and what were saying.
Thank you very much.
Youre welcome.
Our next question comes from Christopher Glynn of Oppenheimer.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Hi Chris.
Hi there.
Your brother-in-law Tom says hi.
Thanks for passing that along.
I got a text from him last night.
I guess this is going to be an easy question.
Well see.
So I wanted to follow-up on the M&amp;A and part of Rogers job now I think is the opportunity to look at sourcing larger deals and we see the Intermec integration was pretty rapid fire with the benefits.
So Im wondering are you just starting to develop the pipeline for larger deals or is that something thats already kind of established? Theres been a conservative effort to find larger deals with Roger joining in that area.
I do think that he has the tendency and the license and idea of looking across Honeywell and trying to identify opportunities that might touch on more than one business or that might be an adjacent to the three business segments that we have.
That might lead you to think there is larger deals in the making.
But I would say thats not the primary objective.
The primary objective is to augment those existing portfolios and find good growth ideas that are in industries alike.
Id add Chris that while we did an okay job on origination as Roger started to get into this around the company looking at it within the businesses across the businesses and adjacencies that might make sense hes really invigorating the overall kind of origination process.
But I think its going to give us a lot more ideas to work with than what weve had in the past.
And youve heard us talk about many times that we have and want even more of a robust pipeline.
If the more ideas you have the more stuff you can go after the more opportunities it gives you and it also allows you to be more selective.
You can end up being Id say in a much better position to negotiate if you have nine other good deals that you cant do so that you dont do something silly when it comes to pricing.
Right.
Well we havent seen that be a problem so I think our bias then would be more to higher frequency of deals in your accelerated capital allocation rather than seeing something larger.
Well I guess it depends how you define larger but I would say  you have heard me say many times we never say never on any of this because its going to depend upon the construct of the deal.
But whatever we do I can promise you well be consistent with the financial and operating discipline model that weve talked about in the past and well have strong cost synergies that come out of it consistent with Toms point of Intermec because that certainly is one of the things that I think has helped define our track record.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Leo we have time for just one more question.
Very good.
Well take a question from Andrew Obin of Bank of America.
Yes good morning.
Just a little bit more color on UOP and HPS.
Could you just comment more on petchem demand by region because were hearing mix commentary this earnings season? UOP by region? Yes and HPS as it seems that some pieces of oil and gas and petchem industry are moving in different directions.
Just trying to get what you guys are seeing.
Its really broad based I think if you move across all the regions.
I mean oil and gas has been particularly strong in the U.S.
the Middle East China in particular.
Anything Tom you could add there? Yes I would say the Middle East has been outstanding for both UOP and HPS and Chinas [lending] (ph) those were very good.
But its not like the U.S.
is And just a question on Aerospace you sort of noted that RMUs growth is moderating and I think you guys were positive.
Can you just talk about whats happening there and any sort of broader trends that are taking place? Well I think on RMUs the sales levels are very strong.
Its just that we had such an uptick in the early and middle part of 2013 and really into '14 that were starting to lap through that are really strong but were sustaining the level of new product development there and the offerings theyre going on to those platforms particularly on BGA side particularly as it relates to software.
Thanks a lot.
Well thank you for your participation today.
I do want to turn the call over to Dave Cote for any final comments.
Well were quite pleased with our second quarter results and our outlook for the year and I think its a good reflection of our expectations for ourselves over the next five years.
We have a great portfolio to grow with our process initiatives continue to progress and our culture provides sustainability as we evolve and continue the seed planting.
Were building on a great base and with the addition of our drive for HOS Gold software including CMMI level 5 and HUE we see a lot of good things to come from Honeywell.
Thanks.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Honeywells Q3 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator instructions.) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for todays conference Elena Doom Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you Leo.
Good morning and welcome to Honeywells Q3 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Here with me today are Chairman and CEO Dave Cote and Senior Vice President and CFO Tom Szlosek.
Todays call and webcast including any non-GAAP reconciliations are available on our website at <a href="http://www.honeywell.com/investor" rel="nofollow"><u>www.honeywell.com/investor</u></a>.
Note that elements of todays presentation do contain forward-looking statements that are based on our best view of the world and of our businesses we see them today.
Those elements can change and we would ask that you interpret them in that light.
We identify the principle risks and uncertainties that affect our performance in our Form 10(k) and other SEC filings.
This morning we will review our financial results for Q3 share with you our outlook for Q4 and provide an initial framework for 2015.
And finally we leave time for your questions.
So with that Ill turn the call over to Dave Cote.
Good morning all.
As Im sure youve seen by now Honeywell had another terrific quarter with better-than-expected operational performance and sales margins and earnings all exceeding our guidance.
In the quarter our organic sales growth accelerated to 5% a continuation of the positive trend weve seen throughout the year; and even more encouraging was the fact that we saw organic sales growth broadly across the portfolio in all our segments.
It truly was a balanced contribution highlighting great positions in good industries.
Our short-cycle order rates continue to trend positive as we saw strong quarters from Energy Safety and Security and Transportation Systems as well as continued improvement in Advanced Materials.
Our long cycle businesses are maintaining robust backlogs with strong orders and sales growth this quarter from UOP Process Solutions and Aerospace giving us confidence in our outlook beyond this year.
Geographically where as you know we are well diversified we are seeing strength in the US particularly in our residential and industrial markets.
As you know weve been conservative over the years in our planning assumptions for Europe and I think thats been a good call.
China continues to be a strong market for us both on the short- and long-cycle sides of the portfolio and we saw double-digit increases this quarter in both the Middle East and India  reinforcing that our focus in high-growth regions is paying off.
EPS of $1.47 increased 19% year-over-year or 14% normalized for tax.
So another quarter with double-digit EPS growth with earnings coming in above the high end of our guidance range.
Our continued progress on the Honeywell operating system or HOS and other key process initiatives are delivering meaningful growth and productivity benefits.
Were seed planting all the time to drive top and bottom line growth.
Complementing the balanced portfolio is our relentless focus on new products and technologies which help us to differentiate.
Innovation remains the lifeblood of the organization and we continue to win big in the marketplace and weve got some really good stuff to talk about today.
Were really excited about the Gulfstream new 600- and 500-series planes that were announced earlier this week and we have several innovative Honeywell technologies onboard including our avionics and mechanical portfolios.
A sampling includes synthetic vision wireless connectivity cockpit avionics traffic and 3D airport maps and our APUs and environmental controls.
We also have another first  the Gulfstream flight deck called Symmetry will include for the first time ever integrated Honeywell touchscreens that will be used for cockpit systems controls flight management communication check lists and monitoring weather and flight information.
This new approach reduces pilot workload while improving communications in a more natural and intuitive way.
These new products are part of our company-wide HUE initiative and reflect the most integrated and streamlined flight deck in business aviation.
The same with aerospace  in September we announced that Bombardier Business Aircraft will be the launch business aircraft manufacturer for Honeywell Aerospaces Jetwave Ka-Band Satellite Connectivity System.
Our Jetwave hardware exclusively supports Inmarsats forthcoming Jet ConneX service which when it goes live in 2015 will provide bus.
jet passengers with high-speed in-flight connectivity virtually anywhere in the world.
To put it in perspective this will allow passengers to video conference send and receive large files and access streaming content while on the move by enabling them to access Inmarsats service.
This exclusive high-speed connectivity will also enable us to differentiate our cockpits and mechanical systems through innovative data sharing and services making aircraft and pilots more efficient.
In our Scanning and Mobility business were working with the United States Postal Service one of the largest global mail carriers to deploy more than 75 000 units of our next-generation mobile delivery device by years end.
This custom-branded mobile device is based on our market-leading mobile computing technology the Dolphin 99ex  clever name right? Used by postal carriers and mail processing employees the device improves critical activities related to making on-time deliveries including reliable tracking information proof of delivery for Priority Mail and postal route navigation support.
Were also excited about the growth were seeing from Solstice our new line of refrigerants insulation materials aerosols and solvents that have global warming potential lower than CO<sub>2</sub>.
In September at a White House event we announced that we will increase production of Solstice products and as a result will drive a 50% reduction in our annual production of high-GWP hydrofluorocarbons or HFCs on a CO<sub>2</sub> equivalent basis prior to 2020.
We project that the use of our Solstice products will eliminate more than 350 million metric tons of CO<sub>2</sub> equivalent by 2025.
Thats equal to removing 70 million cars from the road for one year.
And in mobile air conditioning weve had significant wins from global customers and expect our sales to continue to ramp as Solstice helps customers meet CAP A standards in the US and the new Mac regulation in Europe which goes into full effect in 2017.
So with the increased order book for Solstice applications and the new capacity coming online Fluorines is positioned for terrific growth in 2015.
If I take a look at where we stand for the year with just about two months left were confident in our ability to deliver at the high end of the guidance we set for this year last December.
As a reminder weve stuck by our sales and earnings outlook all year steadily increasing the low end of our pro forma EPS guidance to reflect the strong year-to-date performance.
And were doing it again this quarter raising the low end of our 2014 EPS guidance by $0.05 to $5.50 to $5.555.
Thats up 11% to 12% year-over-year  not bad at all.
So turning to 2015 and youll hear more from Tom on this were going to continue to remain conservative on the global economy.
We havent counted on much from the macro environment historically and so far that has been a good call.
Were confident in our continued outperformance because one our portfolio is aligned to favorable trends like energy efficiency clean energy generation safety and security urbanization and customer productivity that continue to trend positive.
And two we have been conservative on costs.
Were in the process of completing our annual operating plans and overall we see prospects for another good year in 2015.
As I mentioned already we have a very healthy backlog and see positive order and win rates across the portfolio.
Were also expecting another year of margin expansion.
Were going to continue executing on our key strategies for growth including penetration of high-growth regions and sustaining our investments in high ROI CAPEX and new products and technologies while maintaining our cost discipline and ensuring we deliver the savings from restructuring projects that weve funded for the last few years.
Our strength of execution has led Honeywell in the past to strong earnings growth and another year of outperformance in 2015 remaining on track to the long-term targets we gave you back in March.
So with that Ill turn it over to Tom.
Okay thanks Dave and good morning.
On Slide 4 let me walk you through the financial results for Q3  as you can see some very strong numbers and every metric came in at or above the guidance we provided in July.
Sales of $10.1 billion were up 5% on a reported and organic basis and the growth was pervasive throughout the portfolio.
Well dive into some of the business specifics in a moment but were encouraged by the improvement in organic sales growth as weve progressed throughout the year.
Remember it was 1% in Q1 3% in Q2 and now 5% in Q3.
On a regional basis organic sales were up 5% in the US 1% in Europe 4% in China and double digits in a number of our other high-growth regions.
In Europe we have experienced stable growth rates in the first three quarters of the year modest growth rates which are very consistent with what we saw in 2012 and 2013.
We are planning more of the same for Europe in Q4 and into 2015.
As for China the growth was impacted by our deliberate shift of resins and chemicals exports to other parts of Southeast Asia so excluding that our China sales would have been up 7% in the quarter.
On a similar basis we expect China to grow sales faster than GDP for the full year.
Segment profit growth and margin expansion were both strong in the quarter.
Segment profit increased 9% while segment margins expanded 70 basis points to 17.4% which by the way is 20 basis points more than our guidance.
We had profit growth and margin expansion in each of our three SBGs so again a balanced contribution across the portfolio.
The businesses benefited from higher volume in the quarter and productivity continued to be a key driver of margin expansion.
These elements more than offset inflation and our continued investments for growth in sales marketing and product development.
Items below segment profit were mostly as anticipated and so our net income increased 14% normalized for tax  not bad paired with a 5% sales increase.
Also we funded $21 million of restructuring projects in the quarter bringing the year-to-date total to approximately $120 million.
The Q3 tax rate came in at 24.6% versus 27.2% in 2013 and versus the 26.5% we planned.
There are a number of moving parts that sometimes make the tax rates vary quarter by quarter however we continue to expect a tax rate of 26.5% for the full year consistent with our initial planning.
So reported earnings per share of $1.47 in the quarter up 19% versus the prior year.
Normalizing for tax EPS would have been $1.43 up 14% which is $0.01 above the high end of the guidance we provided in July.
Even with essentially flat share count we once again achieved double-digit EPS driven primarily by stronger sales and segment margins.
Finally free cash flow of $1 billion in the quarter was 12% higher than 2013 despite an approximate 28% increase in CAPEX investments.
Overall another strong quarter giving us confidence heading into the last three months of the year.
Moving to Slide 5 were looking at Aerospace results which as you will recall include Transportation Systems in both years.
Aerospace sales were flat in the quarter on a reported basis reflecting the friction materials divestiture but were up 3% organically which was at the high end of our guidance range.
Organic sales growth accelerated in both commercial aero and defense and space while Transportation Systems saw continued strong top line organic growth.
Aerospace margins expanded by 150 basis points driven by productivity net of inflation where material productivity continues to be a significant driver; also commercial excellence and the favorable impact of the friction materials divestiture.
Starting with commercial OE sales increased 5% with good growth in both air transport and regional as well as business and general aviation.
In ATR we saw the continued benefit of higher OE build rates while business aviation saw increased engine shipments coming with certifications on the Bombardier Challenger 350 and Embraer Legacy 500.
Commercial aircraft sales were up 2% in the quarter with strong spares growth in ATR.
ATR had double-digit spares growth with increased mechanical and electrical demand across the major regions.
Were expecting the ATR aftermarket growth to be in line with flight hours in Q4 and would characterize current airline buying activity as stable to modestly better.
The ATR spares growth was offset by anticipated lower repair and overall activity and a decline in BGA RMUs; that is retrofit modifications and upgrades.
You will recall that RMU sales growth has been on a tear for the last couple of years making comparisons to prior periods challenging.
Were still excited by this business and continue to invest to develop new offerings.
Defense and space sales returned to growth in the quarter increasing 3% and continued the improvement weve seen throughout 2014.
You might recall we were down 8% in Q1 and 1% in Q2 so the trend as we predicted is improving.
International programs continued to drive growth with double-digit sales increases while our US DOD sales grew modestly.
And government services declines continued to moderate on a year-over-year basis.
Transportations Systems sales declined 10% on a reported basis again reflecting the friction materials divestiture but were up 4% organically.
Once again we saw strong turbo volume growth across our three largest regions  Europe North America and China.
And in each of these regions our volume growth outpaced auto production.
Two-thirds of the volume growth was attributable to light vehicle gas applications where we continued to see increased global penetration.
We also saw our European commercial vehicle volume more than double in the quarter as we continued to benefit from new programs following the implementation of Euro-6 emission regulations in the region.
On Slide 6 we are looking at ACS results for the quarter.
Sales were up 9% on a reported basis and 4% on an organic basis  again at the high end of our guidance.
The difference in the two rates principally reflects the contributions of Intermec.
ESS sales so the products businesses were up 6% organically continuing the trend of progressively stronger growth we have seen in each quarter in 2014.
Its hard to single out one business in the ESS portfolio because the growth was very broad but scanning mobility and industrial safety celebrated the most.
ESS benefited from new product introductions; higher US residential sales which benefited both ECC and Security; US non-residential improvement in ECC fire and industrial safety; and further penetration in high-growth regions particularly in China where ESS once again had double-digit sales growth in the quarter.
Building Solutions and Distribution or BSD sales were up 2% with continued strength in the Americas fire and security distribution businesses offset by flat sales in building solutions.
We are encouraged however as building solutions has seen an increase in North American service and energy retrofit orders.
Both the global solutions backlog and service banks are up handsomely from the same point last year supporting our outlook for sales acceleration in 2015.
In the non-residential sector the trends are similar to the first half of the year.
In the ESS products businesses that serve non-residential weve continued to see modest growth in commercial products throughout Q3.
However we did see an acceleration of growth on the industrial side with strength in the Americas business particularly.
We anticipate further improvement in Q4 and into 2015 on the commercial and industrial products side.
As for building solutions I mentioned that the backlog and service banks are up year-over-year and we continue to expect energy efficiency projects to support global acceleration into next year.
ACS margins expanded 40 basis points to 15.9% in the quarter and were up 50 basis points excluding the minor dilution from M&amp;A.
ACS continues to benefit from higher volume commercial excellence and productivity net of inflation while also continuing to invest for future growth.
One such investment area is connected homes where we are quite excited by the roadmap of future integrated offerings in heating air conditioning security and lighting controls.
Already we have more than a million internet-connected devices.
Moving to Slide 7 for Performance Materials and Technology PMT sales were $2.5 billion up 7% organically and were above the high end of our guidance driven by stronger-than-expected results in both UOP and Process Solutions.
UOP sales increased 8% in the quarter driven by increased catalyst and gas processing sales reflecting a continued strong refining petrochemical and gas market.
We continue to see strong orders trends in gas processing particularly at Thomas Russell.
At the end of Q3 UOPs backlog stood at $2.6 billion driven by a strong customer adoption of new technologies and investments in new capacity.
In Process Solutions we are encouraged by the accelerated growth of 5% driven by our Advanced Solutions Software and Services businesses as well as higher sales in field products.
High-growth regions remain a huge priority for Process Solutions and they delivered double-digit sales growth from China India and the Middle East.
Borders growth also continued at a strong pace continuing the Q2 trend and the HPS backlog is up nicely over the same point in 2013.
As well preview later on were expecting the sales improvement in the second half of this year to continue in 2015 for HPS.
Advanced Materials sales increased 7% in the quarter also continuing the trend weve seen throughout 2014.
Weve seen volume increases across the businesses with particular strength in foreign products which was up double digits driven by a new low-global-warming potential product.
Segment margins at PMT were up 20 basis points to 17.5% consistent with our expectations driven by higher volume and productivity net of inflation partially offset by price raw headwinds in chemicals and continued investments for growth.
HPS converted particularly well continuing its successful business transformation and benefiting from the growth I mentioned in higher-margin Advanced Solutions Software and Services.
UOP continues to also deliver outstanding profitability.
So now Im on Slide 8 with a preview of Q4.
Were expecting sales of $10.3 billion to $10.4 billion approximately flat reported or up 3% on an organic basis.
And again this assumes a Euro rate of $1.25 for the quarter.
As a reminder were facing a tougher set of comps in Q4 as organic sales were up 5% in Q4 2013 versus only 1% in Q3 2013.
Segment margins for Q4 are expected to be up approximately 120 basis points with pro forma earnings in the range of $1.37 to $1.42 per share up 10% to 15% versus the prior year.
As a reminder were still planning a full year 2014 tax rate of 26.5% so that implies the Q4 tax rate to be approximately 28.8%.
Our Aerospace sales on a reported basis are expected to be down approximately 3% reflecting the year-over-year absence of friction materials in the quarter.
On an organic basis sales are expected to be up approximately 2% and as a reminder in Q4 2013 Aero recognized a significant IP litigation settlement resulting in a royalty gain of $63 million in Defense and Space that was offset by OEM payments in BGA.
Both of these items were included and therefore netted out in sales and segment profit at the Aerospace level last year.
In Q4 Commercial OE sales are expected to be up mid-teens on a reported basis and thats mid-single-digit excluding the year-over-year impact I mentioned from the higher BGA OEM payments.
The growth is driven by the favorable trend in demand for high-value business jet platforms where we have significant new engine content.
Commercial aftermarket sales are expected to be up low-single-digit in the quarter with an improvement in airline and business jet repair and overhaul activity as evidenced by the increase weve seen in shop receipts.
However this strength will be partially offset by more modest spares growth driven by declines in BGA RMU activity that I mentioned earlier.
Defense and space sales are expected to be up slightly excluding the impact of the royalty gain in Q4 2013 I discussed earlier.
In Transportation Systems were expecting sales to be approximately flat on an organic basis primarily due to challenging comparisons to prior year.
Youll recall that in Q4 2013 TS was up 15%.
Were expecting Transportation Systems to have good volume growth in Q1 2015 driven primarily by new launches entering the market.
As for Aerospace margins we expect an increase of approximately 200 basis points in Q4 driven by significant productivity improvements across the portfolio and commercial excellence.
Continued focus on driving productivity and direct material costs and the benefits from functional transformation are helping us to support the growth investments were making in the business as well as to drive the improvement in profitability.
For ACs sales are expected to be up approximately 4% on an organic basis excluding an approximate 2% headwind from FX.
We expect both ESS and BSD to grow in the low- to mid-single digit range on an organic basis supported by the trends were seeing in our short-cycle order rates.
This is also supported by continued growth in our projects backlog and the service bank in Billing Solutions that we mentioned earlier.
ACS margins are expected to be up approximately 60 basis points with continued benefits from productivity net of inflation and commercial excellence while accelerating investments for growth in new product areas such as connected homes and in high-growth regions.
In PMT sales are expected to be up approximately 2% on an organic basis.
The strong and improving growth rates we have seen throughout the year across the PMT portfolio including in Q4 are being temporarily offset by the previously signaled decline in UOP sales for Q4 in the range of 8% to 9%.
And to remind you we had an exceptionally strong Q4 2013 for UOP where sales were up 17% organically  needless to say a difficult comparison.
On the other hand a higher mix of licensing revenue in Q4 will result in a tailwind to UOP and PMT margins.
In HPS the favorable orders and backlog growth will support Q4 sales acceleration which will also carry into 2015.
HPS margin expansion will also continue.
In Advanced Materials we anticipate another quarter of broad sales growth however Resins and Chemicals will continue to face lower margin rates exacerbated by planned plant outages and price raw pressures.
Overall PMT margins in the quarter are expected to be up approximately 60 basis points versus 2013 driven by UOP and HPS.
Let me move to Slide 9 where Id like to refresh everyone on our full-year outlook for 2014.
As you know we take a conservative view on sales expectations.
This approach continues to serve us well because it forces us to also be prudent on our cost structure so if sales grow better than our conservative expectations we tend to do very well.
I think 2014 demonstrates this.
Our sales are coming in a little better than where we planned whereas weve raised our EPS guidance three times during the year.
As Dave indicated we are taking EPS guidance up a third time this time to a range of $5.50 to $5.55 up 11% to 12% over 2013  so another year of double-digit earnings growth.
This is our planning model and well continue to follow it.
As you see on the page weve tightened our sales range to $40.3 billion to $40.4 billion up approximately 3% to 4% versus the prior year.
And as for segment margins were expecting the full year to be approximately 17% or up 70 basis points over 2013.
Again this puts us at or above the high end of the sales and margin guidance we shared with you last December.
The full year outlook by individual segment is similar to what we shared in July.
Considering the performance year-to-date we continue to feel confident in the segment margins for each business  19.5% for Aero 15.0% for ACS and 18.0% for PMT: strong performance across the portfolio with every business contributing to the 70 basis points of segment margin expansion.
While theres still work to do to ensure we deliver 2014 we have commenced our 2015 planning.
On Slides 10 and 11 Ill walk you through some of our key planning assumptions and initial thoughts by business.
While its still early Slide 10 lays out some of our current views.
From a macro perspective were not expecting much in terms of macro GDP growth slightly north of 3%.
As I said earlier we continue to be conservative in our planning and 2015 is consistent with that thinking.
Our short-cycle businesses represent about 55% of our sales and were expecting continued growth from new products and technologies in the short cycle.
Examples include products derived from our Solstice Molecules and PMT and our new platform launches in Transportation Systems.
Our growth in 2015 will also be supported by continued favorable end market trends the modest improvement in non-residential spending benefiting both the commercial and industrial businesses and continued flight hour growth.
On the long-cycle side of our business which represents the remaining 45% of our sales we have good visibility into growth in 2015 based on one the strong order rates; two our robust backlogs; and three the capacity from our new plant.
We will benefit from the increased oil &amp; gas investments globally particularly in the downstream markets where the build out continues with both UOP and Process Solutions well positioned for growth.
Aero will also contribute to organic sales growth based on our expectations of a ramp up in new BGA OE platforms and the strong trend of international defense wins.
In total our long-cycle orders and service banks are up single digits for the year which will also drive higher sales in 2015.
So from a total of Honeywell perspective the strength in the US dollar will likely be a minor headwind in 2015.
Our large exposure to the Euro is in Transportation Systems where we have locked in for 2015 already.
So that will give us a very low sensitivity: if the Euro were to go to say $1.10 we would expect an approximately $0.10 EPS impact for the full year manageable exposure.
And right now were at $1.28 but we will keep our eye on it.
Overall the below the line items for 2015 remain stable.
Even with the recent investment market slide and the continued low interest rate environment we are currently expecting tension income to be roughly neutral next year and continue to not expect a significant required contribution to any of our plans for the foreseeable future.
Finally we anticipate the continued benefits from our proactive restructuring activities to yield $125 million of incremental savings in 2015.
Im now on Slide 11 which depicts our preliminary growth outlook by business compared to the expected growth in 2014.
The colored arrows denote whether we currently see the growth rates improving remaining steady  so growth similar to 2014  or receding.
Again this assessment is based on our preliminary assessment of the key macro inputs and variables our current orders and backlog and the things were in control of from an execution perspective.
As you can see there are a lot of green arrows again driven by our great positions in good industries new product introductions high-growth region expansion and confidence in our long-cycle backlog.
In Aerospace on the commercial side ATR OE growth is expected to be similar to 2014 but with an improvement in the second half of 2015 and into 2016.
This is based on the build rate schedules and ramp up in Airbus A-350 and other new platforms.
In BGA OE we expect the continuation of growth to outpace the market with strong shipments of new engines on new business jet platforms like the Bombardier Challenger 350 and Embraer Legacy 500.
We are well positioned in the medium- to large-BGA segments which are expected to grow the most in the next five years.
Dave also referenced earlier our excitement around the launch of the new Gulfstream 500 and 600 platforms with the first flight of the G500 scheduled in 2015 and shipments starting soon thereafter.
We have been working with Gulfstream for some time in developing these products so we dont expect to incur significant R&amp;D-related expenses relative to these platforms that you normally might expect at the rollout of a new commercial platform.
These and other new platforms support the continued growth in our ATR and BGA installed base and service businesses.
Of course the growth has to be profitable so we also continue to focus on the cost side with planned cost productivity in direct materials and functional spending along with process improvements which will further support further margin expansion in Aerospace.
The commercial aftermarket sales vary based on the quantity of flight hours and maintenance events inventory levels and the customers buying and inventory patterns.
We would anticipate that sales will grow slightly better than they have in 2014 with an expected improvement in airline repair and overhaul activity and higher engine maintenance events in BGA.
Defense and Space is expecting a modest sales increase call it low-single digits in 2015 based on the strength of the international business which represents about 25% of the portfolio.
Our recent win rates support this outlook and we also expect the full sequester to remain in place with the US portion of the business stabilizing.
Finally Transportation Systems is poised for continued growth in 2015 driven by significant new launches modestly better European light vehicle production and the acceleration of gasoline turbo penetration particularly in the US and China.
For ACS were expecting similar growth and ESS to what weve seen through 2014.
This growth will be led by new product introductions further penetration in high-growth regions and continued non-res recovery.
As a reminder roughly 75% of the ACS portfolio serves commercial and industrial markets where we tend to be tied more so to retrofit activity than to new construction.
So our portfolio is well positioned to capitalize on improvements in these areas.
In the Commercial Products side weve seen modest sales improvement over the course of 2014 which we expect to continue into 2015 with better growth in the US driven by improvement in the ECC and Fire Systems businesses.
In the industrial markets were expecting higher sales of industrial fire safety equipment particularly in the Americas which represent about half of our exposure.
Residential growth will continue particularly in the US where were accelerating our investments in the connected home space.
And in Building Solutions which is a longer-cycle business sales growth has been muted year-to-date but were encouraged by the improvement in product orders and services backlog which will benefit in 2015.
In PMT our robust orders growth and backlog position at both UOP and Process Solutions support growth acceleration.
PMT continues to benefit from oil &amp; gas investments occurring around the world.
Youre probably aware were primarily focused on the midstream and downstream segments.
These are less impacted in the near term than the upstream segments might be by any reduction in capital spending that could come from recent crude oil price declines.
In fact most of our UOP and HPS backlogs will be executed over the next two or three years and are for projects where the bulk of our customers capital has already been spent.
The risk of cancellations is low and is already reflected in our initial planning framework.
Lower oil prices also mean lower fuel prices at the pump which drive more demand for refined products and production.
This also plays to the strength of our portfolio.
Also were excited by the recent loosening of US restrictions on energy export and are well positioned to win new business in related verticals like liquid natural gas.
And last in Advanced Materials we expect to continue to benefit from our Solstice products and higher production volumes in resins and chemicals.
Given the balance of these various dynamics we are encouraged about our prospects for 2015.
We are in the middle of our annual planning process and we look forward to providing you with more details regarding our 2015 guidance during our outlook call on December 16<sup>th</sup>.
You can expect it will count on only modest sales growth and will stay conservative on costs so that we deliver earnings growth on a basis consistent with our five-year plan.
Let me wrap up on Slide 12.
The strong Q3 results came from every part of Honeywell.
We have a solid and diverse portfolio and management team focused on execution.
Combined these enabled us to add to our performance track record as we exceeded our guidance on sales margins and EPS.
With one quarter left to go we are confident in our ability to continue outperforming despite the continued slow growth macro environment.
Were going to continue investing in our future with a focus on profitable sales growth.
This means investing in high ROI CAPEX in new product development and in sales and marketing resources particularly in high-growth regions.
The investments are paying off  you can see it in the results.
As we turn our attention to 2015 we recognize the uncertainty in the macro environment but this is not new for us.
We have and will continue to plan conservatively.
Also were confident that our portfolio is well positioned for continued outperformance.
Our order trends both short- and long-cycle point to accelerated sales growth for next year that should enable continued strong improvements in our profitability.
And we will continue to execute to deliver 2014 15 and beyond.
So with that Elena lets go to Q&amp;A.
Thanks Tom.
Leo we will now take our first question.
Very good.
The floor is now open for questions.
(Operator instructions.) Our first question is coming from Scott Davis of Barclays.
Hi good morning guys.
Thanks for helping the market go up today.
We needed it.
[laughs] Yeah I agree.
Ive got to give you crap about something Dave  you know I cant go a conference call without criticizing you.
But 16 slides and not a word on M&amp;A or buybacks or any cash reinvestment.
Youve had a nice pull back here  whats holding you back from buying back some shares? Well first of all I dont think that we ever provide a chart commenting on that so its not unusual.
No I know.
[laughter] I guess 19% 14% depending upon how you want to look at it doesnt suffice so I understand.
But at the end of the day our strategys still the same  its to stay opportunistic on both the M&amp;A side and the share repurchase side and I think M&amp;A conditions are starting to improve with the kind of pull back weve seen.
So who knows how things develop Im not promising anything.
You never know where things are going to go but at the end of the day times are getting better to buy so well see what happens.
Dave what is the ideal size of transactions? I mean in the past youve done some pretty interesting deals and some of them a little bit big.
Would you be willing to go a little larger in size where theres some value now? Well you know Ive always said I never say never on doing anything large so well say I dont know $5 billion to $10 billion.
But at this date weve never done it either  it doesnt mean we wont but Ive never done it.
We still continue to maintain a very active pipeline of projects from small stuff to big stuff and were going to keep doing that and who knows? Maybe someday something bigger strikes.
In the meantime we still keep looking at stuff thats more bite-size more manageable.
And its tough to predict where these things go.
As [Ann Madden] keeps reminding us you kiss 100 frogs to find I guess in my case the princess.
So its just one of those things that were going to keep looking at and keep working.
And just lastly non-res has been a bit of a mystery this year but it looks like you made some positive commentary there.
I mean do you see projects as finally breaking ground where youve got some visibility that we can make some shipments? And this quarter was pretty good actually.
Yeah I would say youve been hearing me say now for over a year I think that weve been seeing increased quote activity but no results from it.
Were finally starting to see some slight improvements in growth rates from what weve seen in some of our other businesses.
Id like to think that that portends a trend.
Im not ready to declare that yet but I do believe the time has come.
And for me part of this is just the aftermath of the recession.
We said at the time how you went in was likely how you were going to come out and it was stuff that went in quickly like aircraft spares came out quickly.
Stuff that went in slowly like non-res construction has been slow to come out and I think were finally at that point where were in the kind of slow-to-come-out range.
I dont expect a boom but I still think its going to be a tailwind for us.
Good.
Well well done guys.
Thanks and Ill pass it on.
Im sorry Scott what was that? [laughter] Our next question comes from Steve Tusa of JPMorgan.
Hi good morning.
So just on UOP I think people are obviously a little bit worried about whats happened with oil prices here.
Can you maybe just get into specifics on what percentage of UOP specifically is kind of oil price exposed if you will? I mean I know maybe theres some offshore projects that they may be involved in FPSOs Im not sure  just want to get some further clarity on that.
And I totally understand the positive long-term trends but UOP is obviously one that people worry about every day.
So just maybe if you can give us a little bit of color there.
Steve the last thing Id ever expect from you is a bouquet but not even a flower or a rose petal or something? [laughter] Not even a little bit? Solid quarter I guess.
[laughter] Well thank you Ill take what I can get.
Youre doing okay.
I never worry about you youre doing fine.
[laughs] Heres a reasonable way to think about it is if we take a look at our overall sales about 15% of it is represented by oil &amp; gas in total.
So its not just UOP but it includes Process.
If you broke out that 15 points 12 points of it are in the mid- to downstream segments so yeah there is some upstream but not a huge amount.
And when we think about oil prices Tom was talking about some of this  that pump prices tend to be sticky in both directions and when oil prices are going down thats a good thing for refiners.
So all of those projects especially if the moneys already been spent we really dont see it having that much of an impact over the next two or three years.
Most of those projects are still going to get done.
We also think over the long term theres some natural floors here that exist and theres been a big increase in oil production over the past year.
Its up something like 3% in total with a big chunk of it driven by the US.
But theres a natural floor that occurs at about $80 when you look at shale oil production where a lot of capacity just goes offline so it gets supply and demand much more balanced.
So overall I really dont see it having that much of an impact to UOP.
It might have some; there might be some projects that go a little bit sideways.
But overall very manageable is the way Id think about it.
Tom I dont know if theres anything you want to add? Just theres discussion of cancellations and weve thoroughly assessed our backlog and were really not seeing anything.
As Dave said theres a natural floor and maybe if you get significantly below that you might see more activity.
But the only impacts are minor delays in project financing but it really hasnt shown any impact on the backlog.
And then Dave one last question following up on Scotts question about buybacks: when you think about kind of the reticence to buy stock back at this stage given the prior experience and just worried about buying closer to peak I mean how do we think about that in terms of your relative valuation and the relative attractiveness of your stock? Because I mean it doesnt seem like the stock is holding up as well as it should in these pull backs and so does the mindset change if theyre not giving you  even though were kind of in a tough economic time if people arent giving you the relative credit does the mindset change? No not really.
I would say going back to what I said before were going to stay opportunistic.
We have a lot of faith in our ability to continue growing and I think we certainly demonstrated that again this quarter.
And when it comes to both repurchases and M&amp;A were going to stay opportunistic and having money gives you opportunities.
Once the moneys gone the opportunities arent there anymore.
So were going to continue to drive really strong earnings growth especially versus our peers with or without a buyback.
And its always an opportunity for us.
Great thanks.
Youre welcome.
Our next question comes from Nigel Coe of Morgan Stanley.
Thanks good morning.
It sounds like buybacks are a hot topic this morning.
[laughter] So I wont go there but I do want to switch to the 15 framework if youd like and thanks for the detail  its really helpful.
And I guess the top line will be what itll be to what extent by the macro but as we think about your margin expansion and doing what you can control  and obviously this year is very strong with a 30-weekish top line year-to-date.
But next year based on the construction pipeline do you think you can be in line with the 70 bps long-term framework or do you think you can do better than that? Or how should we think about the OM next year? Well first of all Nigel same thing  not even a rose petal? No no Dave  great quarter.
[laughter] Not even a splash of toilet water something? Im splashing away here.
[laughter] Well first off its too early for us to declare.
Were in the middle of a planning cycle and we just dont do that.
So in December is when we talk about it but overall I think you can expect something thats consistent with our five-year plan because as you recall in the five-year plan we were pretty conservative on what we expected over five years from the global economy.
I guess fortunately and unfortunately  the fortunate side is we planned for it that way so were prepared.
The unfortunate part is its turning out that way.
We kind of hoped that there might be a nice surprise at some point.
But well talk a lot more about it in December on Toms call.
What date is that call? December 16<sup>th</sup>.
December 16<sup>th</sup> and well talk about it more then.
But you can expect something thats consistent with our five-year plan where youll look at it and go Oh theyre still on track. Okay thats fair thanks Dave.
And then one of the real hallmarks of Honeywell over the past decade has been growing top line while keeping fixed costs flat or in some cases down.
This year SG&amp;As been growing quite a bit ahead of sales and Im wondering theres obviously a lot of moving parts in SG&amp;A and COGS but how much of that increase in SG&amp;A is driven  and Im thinking here about initiatives like HUE? Well quite honestly I dont really look at the SG&amp;A line all that much so I should describe it more as how I do look at it.
On the sales side we have been adding feet on the street when you look at high-growth regions and thats one of the reasons that youre seeing such good performance there because if you have great products and services and one guy covering a country youre just not going to sell as much.
Youve got to have somebody who can be out there and represent.
I do know on the G&amp;A side thats going down because a lot of that is part of our functional transformation  so you think about Legal Finance IT HR.
All that stuff is going down consistent with functional transformation.
So all the stuff that weve talked about is continuing to happen and I suppose we can get a better SG&amp;A answer for you.
Im happy to help out with that.
Okay thanks.
And just a quick one for Tom perhaps: the hedge on TS for next year I believe thats new.
I dont think youve hedged in the past so number one is that new? And second is there anything we need to think about in terms of hedge accounting and sensitivity to certain rates? You are correct  it is new.
And Ill turn it over to Tom to discuss further.
Yeah I mean its at or around current rates now Nigel.
Thats essentially the way to think of it.
So if you think about the current exchange rates for TS it essentially locks us in to what you see.
But theres no mark to market impact.
No its pure hedge accounting.
If the mark on the hedge goes to [below translation] or goes below the line outside of operating profits it serves to offset that.
Because at the end of the day the change in the thought process has been historically Ive been pretty adamant about never hedging on translation just because I think over the course of twenty years youre basically out the cost of hedging.
This year Id say well theres always the possibility it could go the other way because these things are unpredictable.
The prospects of it going to $1.10 $1.20 I think is very real and we looked at it and said its better to say protect ourselves on half or so of our exposure and forego a bit of that upside just to protect ourselves on the downside in what could be a tougher macro again.
And that was the thought process behind it and we were able to do it with a very good understanding of what the impact was month by month.
So we were able to avoid having to use that marked to market approach.
Great thanks guys.
Youre welcome.
Our next question comes from Steve Winoker of Bernstein Research.
Hey thanks good morning.
And Dave Im going to save you the pain of soliciting another compliment and just say good quarter to all the guys inside the SBGs okay? Well leave it there.
Thank you Steve.
As youve probably noticed Im a very needy person.
I do and as long as that makes you keep delivering I have no problem with that.
[laughs] It helps it helps.
So a few questions here.
I guess one I hate to keep coming back to the capital deployment but I also remember you often talking about telling investors Now that weve gone through the turnaround some years ago what are we going to do with the cash? Dont worry were not going to blow the cash. To the extent that you are ramping up M&amp;A and Rogers out there looking pretty aggressively Im sure as well what are kind of the minimum financial hurdles we should still think about for kind of mid- to large-size deals that youre thinking about in terms of return on capital or otherwise  the stuff that Ann would actually let pass through for example? Our hurdles are not going to change and theyre the same ones that weve used for 13 years and thats accretive in the second year IRR clearly above the cost of capital  so think of it in the 11% 12% range; and ROI above 10% in the fifth year and thats all-in so that includes all the amortization and everything else so its a more difficult hurdle than people might think.
And at the end of the day regardless of the size well be able to demonstrate 6% to 8% of sales as cost synergies because I dont want to count on any sales synergies as you know and I want to make sure that we stay disciplined as hell in terms of our deployment so were never going to panic.
And the nice thing about it is we have a terrific organic growth prospect.
So its not like I have to do M&amp;A in order [deliver] and thats why we construct our five-year plan the way we do so that you would look at it and go Geez these numbers are awfully good whether they do M&amp;A or not. But I never want to feel panicked and we dont.
So you can expect that whatever we do whatever we do end up doing  whether its a bunch of small stuff something big various big things depending on how you want to classify it  its all going to meet that criteria.
Okay.
And Tom a little bit about how youre starting to think about pension.
Im sure youll go into more detail in December but given rates direction and all of that how should we think about sensitivities in the current accounting structure? Yeah good question Steve.
If you drew the line today for pension expense considering even the most recent market developments and the low interest rate environment wed be about flat year-over-year for pension expense.
As I said right now no foreseeable contributions from a cash perspective in the next couple periods.
Marked to market-wise for 2014 as you know if there is one we would do it in Q4.
Right now again based on the assumptions as we understand them today at least for our major plans  the US plans  they would not be a marked to market.
Okay.
And if I can just sneak one more in which is in UOP those CAPEX investments how do you see those continuing to play out through the next year? Well in terms of the quantity of the CAPEX we peak in 2015 in terms of the expenditure level.
But as you know starting in the second half of this year weve got some of that capacity coming online this year mostly for the Solstice product portfolio and a little bit in the UOP catalyst.
But those plants as weve said over and over again have pretty much hit the ground running at full capacity and so when you look at the growth rates youre seeing in PMT that 7% thats a reflection of being able to put that capacity to work right away.
Okay great thanks.
And the projects are on track which is always a great place to be when youve got full plants.
Okay thanks a lot.
See you Steve.
Our next question comes from Jeff Sprague of Vertical Research.
Good morning.
Ive been brushing up on my accent  Dave I think it was a pretty good quah-tah. [laughs] I think it was wicked good myself.
[laughs] Just a couple little clean-up things: on UOP can you give us a sense just following up on that last comment from Tom what type of top line benefit do you foresee next year as those plants come on? I guess the question is kind of the key noted revenue weight of that capacity as it turns on.
I would say its still a little too early to declare on any of that  well do more of that in December.
Id say you can expect that UOPs going to continue to do well.
And Id add its a big driver for this incremental growth in UOP versus the growth rate were seeing in 2014.
And then on international defense where youre seeing some acceleration it sounds like can you give a little color on countries or programs where thats actually happening? Yeah Middle East Israel Turkey some of the regions that you might expect to have the funding and where theres activity; a little bit in India as well.
And this one might be a little bit in the weeds but kind of getting into fluorines and the like with your transition coming in the US here really at the beginning of the year do you see any noise in Q4 around that? Do you see signs that people are prebuilding just anything to be aware of there? No.
I mean were really excited about fluorines overall and the transition that weve got going but nothing significant from that perspective.
Yeah and then just a quick one and Ill jump off: Tom you did end your remarks by saying accelerated organic growth in 2015.
Obviously youve also hedged the macro and everything but are you suggesting you do have line of sight at least of being inside that 4% to 6% kind of organic growth going forward which is kind of the compound goal up to 2018? Yeah I think Dave is telling me not to share anything until December 16<sup>th</sup> which Im going to follow my boss orders.
[laughter] Alright sounds good.
Thanks guys.
See you Jeff.
Our next question comes from Andrew Obin of Bank of America.
Yes hi how are you guys? Just to clarify on Advanced Materials so why is it not growing faster in 15 versus 14 given this is where the CAPEX is going and Solstice is ramping up? Sorry and congratulations by the way.
Ah thank you  I thought I was going to have to beg again.
No.
[laughter] So we are seeing good growth in Advanced Materials Andrew.
I mean in the quarter Advanced Materials grew 7% organically so I think what were saying is at this point the continuation of that type of mid-single-digit growth rate is what were expecting for next year given its still early days.
Yeah just a reminder on how to read that chart: the side arrows mean the growth rates themselves for 15 compared to the growth rates for 2014.
So as Elena points out weve seen really decent growth especially in the second half in the Advanced Materials portfolio including fluorine or led by fluorine.
So were expecting that trend to continue in 2015.
So I think its a good story.
Besides if we had a whole page of green arrows youd be asking how could we possibly believe the environment to be that good.
I appreciate that.
And just a comment on BSD you sort of commented that youre seeing non-res accelerating.
Could you just give more color on what specifically youre saying what areas because it would be really good news if we are seeing non-res cycle pickup.
Yeah I think its been moderate.
I dont want to overplay the pickup on the commercial piece of the non-res but we are seeing a significant amount of quotation activity in the US and particularly on the federal side of the energy vertical.
The municipalities and other institutions are also coming along but overall the orders are starting to pick up.
Were expecting good orders [a story of performance] in Q4 that should serve us well in 2015.
Terrific thank you.
Thanks Andrew.
Our next question comes from Howard Rubel of Jefferies.
Good morning.
Thank you very much.
Hey Howard thank you.
Well no thank <i>you</i> Dave.
I mean numbers like this you know only come from Honeywell.
Now thats what Im talking about Howard thank you! Boy this is really amazing the suck-ups were doing here but anyhow Only if its deserved.
[laughter] Exactly you know that.
But to talk about a couple of business fundamentals talk about what youve done to make Intermec work right.
It looks like it had a very nice top line contribution.
The US Postal Service piece of business looks like its market share pickup and when I walk into Starbucks I see a Honeywell logo.
So whats gone there thats set you apart because this is a difficult market? I was going to say we appreciate you picking up on that one because were quite proud of everything weve done there not just by Intermec but by really pulling together several players in the industry and creating a One Honeywell approach thats really made a difference.
And they all brought different technologies and perspectives whether it was Hand-Held Metrologic or Intermec.
And I think our guys starting with Darius the leader originally and then John [Waldren] whos in there now have done a great job pulling all that together and rationalizing it so that we expanded our offerings pushed the technology more so than others have including what weve been able to do with Voice or Vocollect coming out of the Intermec acquisition; and getting better coverage  just being out there and being able to tell our story with feet on the street in a way that we werent able to before.
So its really just a matter of running it better and taking advantage of the technologies that we brought together and running it better.
So when we look at the Intermec numbers year-on-year theyre up its hard to totally tell but it looks like high single digits.
I know thats only one part of everything youre doing there.
Thats right Howard.
And I know were getting the as Dave said the technologies are very strong and theyre complementary to what exists in the Scanning Mobility business.
We didnt have printing; we didnt have voice.
We did have mobile computers but Intermec had a very strong platform and so weve been able to integrate all three of those product lines nicely and to accelerate the growth there.
And as you alluded to the performance against what our expectations were has been tremendous and when we look at the headline multiple versus where we are today its quite remarkable.
Its also good Howard you know how we never count on sales synergies which always provides a nice upside.
And weve gotten a pile of them here.
Thank you.
And then one just final question sort of Im not sure if Im going to ask it right but as you look at new products that youre introducing with the R&amp;D spend  because in each of the business units youve talked about there being Ill call it growth investments.
How are you sort of measuring the premium youre getting on the new products relative to the spend youre making? How fast do you decide that gee this is working really well lets put more in; or no its not working very well and lets scale it back? Thats something that we defer to each of the businesses to make those kinds of decisions and each of them has their kind of kiss-or-kill approach to all of these projects.
And some of its by country some of its by business so theyre constantly looking at making sure that we get the biggest bang for the R&amp;D buck.
And I would say its one of the things that I look at and say across the company we still have opportunity for.
Sometimes well have a project that well look at and say Geez this is going to cause sales to grow 8% thats great lets do it  but we really dont push ourselves because it might be a business that could be growing 20% - were just not thinking big enough for it.
On the other side theres still projects that we linger with too long or we focus on little stuff when we should be conglomerating some of that and focusing on something bigger.
So Id say we do a good job overall certainly a hell of a lot better than we used to but I still see more upside to being more disciplined on that in every business.
Thank you for your help today.
We hope.
Well see what 4:00 shows.
[laughs] Thank you Dave.
Our final question comes from John Inch of Deutsche Bank.
Thank you.
Last but not least hi guys.
So congrats Dave.
Oh thank you.
Youre welcome.
So Tom you gave us the 15 I think restructuring tailwinds of $125 million.
Just to try and make sure we have the framework could you tell us what remind us what your spending expectations are for 14 and then savings that would have been from 13 and 14; and then what you expect to spend in 15 that dovetails with the $125 million? Yeah I believe the actual savings from 13 to 14 is similar  its in that $125 million $150 million range for 2015.
In terms of the cash spend I think for 2014 itd be about $200 million.
We had an elevated Q1 restructuring charge obviously with the sale of the B/E Aero shares.
But its probably maybe for just the repositioning portion only its maybe more in the $140 million $150 million range in terms of spend.
Tom do you want to comment on next year? Yeah I think for next year I would expect I mean our unspent backlog as of the end of Q3 is about $350 million a little less than that.
And I would expect that we would spend $150 million to $200 million of that (inaudible).
Yeah I mean thats where I was going with the B/E Aerospace share gains.
I mean is this all else equal are we going to see some sort of a spending tailwind if you will or absence of spending that could be actually material or impactful? Or perhaps youre thinking about some other offset because you guys are pretty good at you know doing some matching opportunistically.
Yeah so John I thought you were asking about cash before.
Well I was kind of asking about both yeah.
Okay.
So right now as I said our expense our P&amp;L expense of restructuring is about $120 million and we spent the cash that we had indicated.
Were always looking at opportunities.
Every quarter we review with Dave; every business reviews a portfolio of restructuring opportunities just like we do for M&amp;A opportunities.
And we look at them in a disciplined way.
We look at the paybacks we look at the ROIs and so forth and yes its true  we tend to look for opportunities to fund those restructuring and yes its also true that we have some potential funding capacity as we look out.
But I dont think weve come to any conclusions at this point on what were going to do in 2015.
Well take it opportunistically as we go through the year like we normally do.
Thats fair.
And then can I just follow up: you guys are a very large aerospace company and your commentary around aerospace and aftermarket is still pretty constructive kind of heading into next year.
You do have this sort of Ebola thing thats kind of in the background and Im trying to understand would the analogy be perhaps to what happened during SARS and the possible impact on flight hours? Im just trying to understand at this juncture how are you thinking about the planning process for the business next year as it pertains to flight hours perhaps based on past experience? Or is it should we just not really be concerned about this? As usual you can expect us to plan for some of the worst just so that we know what our downside is.
I dont think thats whats going to happen here though just based upon what you read about Ebola.
In terms of its actual impact on the US in terms of how many people actually get ill at least from the best Ive been able to glean we dont expect much of an impact there.
The thing you cant predict is what that fear quotient is going to do and as people just start to become afraid and as media has something new to talk about its tough to predict where that will go.
So Id say overall I dont expect the actual impact in terms of illness to be consistent with what we saw with SARS.
You still need to start to factor in what that fear quotient could do and that were not really going to know except over the next two to three months I would say.
And were going to plan make sure that we have a plan to address it in the most conservative way possible just so that were prepared.
Okay thanks very much I appreciate it.
Youre welcome.
So I want to hand the call back over to Dave Cote for some closing remarks.
Over the last few years wed have to say the global macro economy really hasnt provided much help and we expect its going to continue that way as we outlined in our five-year plan back in March.
As Tom and I both mentioned conservative sales planning has been the way to go and were going to continue that approach.
Its probably obvious by now that were pleased with our outperformance this quarter and this year and for that matter over the last few years and we intend to continue outperforming consistent with our five-year plan.
Within a slow global economy we will get all the sales we can because of our great positions in good industries our high-growth region presence and focus and new products.
With that sales growth well continue to drive cost and process discipline through our focus on HOS goals.
So said more simply we intend to continue outperforming.
So thanks for listening and of course thank you to all our owners.
I promise we wont disappoint you thanks.
Thank you.
This does conclude todays teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Honeywells Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants have been placed on a listen-only mode and the floor will be open for your questions following the presentation.
[Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference is being recorded and I would now like to introduce your host for todays conference Mr.
Mark Macaluso Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you Lisa.
Good morning and welcome to Honeywells Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
With me here today are Chairman and CEO Dave Cote and Senior Vice President and CFO Tom Szlosek.
This call and webcast including any non-GAAP reconciliations are available on our website at www.honeywell.com/investor.
Note that elements of this presentation contains forward-looking statements that are based on our best view of the world and of our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change and we ask that you interpret them in that light.
We identify the principle risks and uncertainties that affect our performance in our Form 10(k) and other SEC filings.
This morning we will review our financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2014 and share with you our guidance for the first quarter and full year of 2015.
Finally as always we will leave time for your questions at the end.
So with that Ill turn the call over to Chairman and CEO Dave Cote.
Thanks Mark good morning everyone.
We delivered another excellent quarter capping off terrific 2014.
In this fourth quarter we delivered better than expected operational performance in each of our key metrics at sales margin earnings and cash meeting or exceeding our guidance across the board.
We have delivered 4% organic sales growth following 5% growth in the third quarter and we continue to drive margin expansion up 130 basis points excluding the impact of the fourth quarter 2014 aerospace OEM incentives which we discussed in detail last month.
We delivered earnings per share of $1.43 up 15% year-over-year or up 11% normalized for tax.
So another quarter of double-digit earnings growth and $0.01 above the high end of our guidance range with strong execution across portfolio.
For the full year we increased sales on an organic basis 3% while continuing our seed planting with investments in new products and technology high ROI CAPEX and expansion of our global footprint.
We achieved significant margin expansion with benefits from our key process and productivity initiatives and we have been able to achieve all this in what continues to be a slow growth macro environment.
The momentum we saw in the second half gives us confidence in this year.
Our short cycle businesses continued to improve with good organic growth in the commercial aftermarket business ESS advanced materials and transportation systems all suggesting a modest improvement in end market conditions overall.
We are also seeing good momentum out of our long cycle businesses building on our robust backlog.
We believe the portfolio is well positioned to deliver this year and beyond enhanced by the smart gain deployment actions we have taken over the past years.
While I believe the global economy could be a bit better this year than economists are forecasting currently we will as always plan conservatively in our outlook and remain flexible.
As you will hear in a moment we continue to plan for a slow to no growth environment in Europe.
Weve hedged over 80% of our P&amp;L exposure related to the Euro and we remain focused on controlling our spend.
As Tom previewed in December we sold the final 1.9 million shares of B/E Aerospace stock this quarter.
To remind you we originally received 6 million shares as time to consideration for the sale of our Aero consumable solutions business in 2008.
At that time those shares were worth about 150 million.
We sold those shares over the course of the last five quarters for total of about 500 million.
We deployed the results and gains for restructuring and other actions to proactively position the companys future growth and profitability.
The actions in the fourth quarter will significantly benefit Aerospace over our five year plan and we believe we are well positioned for future success with our commercial OE customers as a result.
Now there continue to be a lot of exciting things happening across the portfolio to drive those results and to highlight a few Honeywell standing and mobility delivered another quarter of double digit organic sales growth benefitting from new customer wins.
Following the success weve had with Intermec HSM announced in December the acquisition of Datamax-O'Neil a global manufacturer of fixed and mobile printers used in a variety of retail warehousing distribution and healthcare applications.
This acquisition positioned HSM to expand in the $1.5 billion global bio-code printing segment and build on their existing printing capabilities prior to that.
The team is really excited about this acquisition which extends our global reach and provides scale and significant synergy opportunities.
Transaction is expected to close this quarter.
While our dealer activity in this past year was modest; the M&amp;A pipeline remains robust and we intend to maintain our disciplined process and extend our strong track record.
Weve also talked a lot about our Solstice line of refrigerants insulation materials aerosols and solvents that have ozone depletion of zero and a global warming potential lower than co2.
And thats a thousand times better than what it replaces.
Earlier this month we announced that our flowing products business has started full scale commercial production in our Baton Rouge Louisiana facility of the newest Solstice product.
HFO-1234Ze now that is one impressive catchy name so I think we are going to publish stick with Solstice.
We are seeing increasing demand for our entire Solstice suite of low GWTP material.
The lifetime value of signed agreements in 2014 exceeds 2.3 billion and we have an additional billion dollars plus under negotiations.
Process solutions has also been a bright spot as we close out the year.
Organic sales growth accelerated in the second half of the year and orders were up double digit in the fourth quarter supporting continued growth this year.
HPS is transforming project execution with LEAP that is lean execution of automation projects and is innovating to win the market with automation offerings across control and safety systems field devices plant optimization software and services.
We are also excited about the growth synergies from HPS and UOP doing together.
Our ability to match UOP process and operating knowledge with HPS control and advance software solutions will enable unmatched operating excellence while refining petrochemical and gas process in customers.
You can expect to see more of our innovation on display at the margin investor day where each of the businesses will highlight a number of heavy influence new products and road maps for our future growth in productivity.
We also plan to share with you how HOS goal is evolving throughout the organization which we believe is a key differentiator.
We held at our annual senior leadership meeting earlier this month and I could tell you that each of the businesses are hard at work finding new and innovative breakthrough objectives to drive growth and margin expansion.
Having successfully performed against the five year targets we set for 2010 to 2014 we are now focused on delivering 2015 and the five year targets we issued last March for 2014 to 2018.
2014 was a strong start.
Our business model works.
Having a strong portfolio with great positions in good industries making sure the machinery works better every day for our customers suppliers and employees and a culture that focuses on one Honeywell and evolving our capability and technologies.
From our culture we get sustainability results.
So with that I will turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Dave and good morning.
Let's begin on slide 4 which recaps our fourth quarter results compared with the guidance we gave you last month at the December Outlook call.
On the left hand side we have outlined the guidance we shared with you in December.
On the right you can see our results for the quarter as reported.
I am not going to walk through each line item here but you can see based on the check marks that we delivered or exceeded our guidance on each line item including the top and bottom line.
The incremental sales and segment profit enable us to beat the higher end of our EPS guidance range and also perform incremental restructuring and other actions in the quarter.
There are couple of transactions that occurred in the fourth quarter that are worth reminding you and again they unfolded exactly as we forecasted in December.
First we completed the sale of the remaining BEAV share as Dave said resulting in a $114 million gain $0.14 per share on an after tax basis.
The timing of the sale was important from a tax perspective as we noted in December.
The timing allowed us to offset that gain with other items and therefore incur very little income tax on the transaction.
Also in the quarter our aerospace business recognized the cost of certain commercial OEM incentive that became due when our customer achieved contractual development milestones on platforms which will include Honeywell avionics and mechanical content.
The cost was 184 million or 114 million on an after tax basis that is $0.14 per share.
As you know we have won significant content in the air transport and business aviation sectors and such upfront incentives are part of the business model.
And as you are also aware accounting for these incentives is quite conservative.
Many others in the industry defer these types of cost on their balance sheet and expense them over the life of the platform.
We believe charging incentives upfront gives greater transparency to our OEM profitability in this segment.
Also the OEM incentives position us well on the platforms already won but also to win new business on the content to be selected in the future.
I am now on slide 5 which shows the fourth quarter results without the aero OEM incentives or BEAV gain.
Sales of 10.5 billion increased 1% or 4% on an organic basis.
The absence of friction materials and the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar were headwinds to reported sales growth in the quarter.
If you recall we divested protection materials in the third quarter so that there will continue be unfavorable sales headwinds throughout the first half of 2015.
We are encouraged with the growth momentum that are beginning to emerge.
We achieved 4% organic sales growth in the second half of 2014 compared with 2% for the first half and 2% for all of 2013.
The growth we saw in the fourth quarter was broad based and resulting in better than expected performance across the portfolio.
I will provide more color as we review the business groups in a moment.
You can see that segment profit increased 9% with segment margin expanding 130 basis points.
Our efforts to drive commercial excellence supported by differentiated technology continued to produce results.
In addition productivity remains a key driver of margin expansion offsetting inflation and our continued investments for growth.
EPS was $1.43 up 15% consistent with our historical practice this excludes the annual mark to market adjustment for defined benefit pension plan.
In the fourth quarter this mark to market adjustment was approximately 249 million or $0.23 per share.
Principally driven by lower discount rates in our German and Dutch plans.
So the fourth quarter reported EPS was $1.20 and for reference purposes the mark to market adjustment in 2013 was 51 million or about $0.05 a share.
Finally free cash flow in the quarter of 1.3 billion representing conversion of 119% and an increase of 6% from 2013.
So overall we generated very strong results in a relatively slow growth environment and we increased our annual dividend in the fourth quarter by 15% to $2.07 a share continuing our commitment to growing the dividend faster than the earnings rate growth and a trend you can expect will continue.
On slide 6 same fourth quarter results we are presenting on a reported basis.
So as you can see our reported sales decreased 1% and that was driven by the aero OEM incentives.
No change to the 4% organic sales growth in the quarter as shown in the previous page.
So on a reported basis segment profit decreased 2% with margins contracting 20 basis points to 15.9% in the quarter.
Again the only difference from the previous slide -- is the inclusion of the 184 million charge for the aero OEM incentives.
Moving to net income the BEAV gain and the OEM incentives fully offset one another on a net of tax basis and normalized for tax EPS in the quarter increased 11% year-over-year.
The rest of the figures on this slide are identical to the prior fourth quarter slides.
I am now on slide 7 a recap of full year of 2014 results again without the impact of Aero OEM incentives over the BEAV gain.
Full year sales of 40.5 billion up 4% or 3% on an organic basis.
The primary difference between the reported and organic rate is the Intermec acquisition net of the impact of the protection materials divestitures.
We saw a good organic growth across the portfolio including in scanning mobility the fire industrial safety businesses transportation systems and UOP.
Segment profit increased 8% demonstrating strong sales conversion and resulted in a 70 basis point improvement in the segment margin rate to 17%.
All this resulted in earnings per share excluding pension mark to market adjustment of $5.56 a share up 12% over 2013.
Representing our fifth consecutive year or double digit earnings growth and EPS $0.01 above the high end of our December guidance range.
Our reported EPS of $5.33 for the year again reflects the $0.23 mark to market adjustment that I mentioned for the fourth quarter.
So finally free cash flow was 3.9 billion in line with our guidance.
Free cash flow increased 16% year-over-year despite an approximate 16% increase in CAPEX investments in the growth areas we previously shared with you mostly in the PMT.
So lets move to slide 8 to show the full year 2014 results including impacts of the aero OEM incentives and BEAV gains.
To quickly recap 2014 sales were up 3% on both reported and organic basis to 40.3 billion.
Segment profit was up 5% resulting in a 30 basis point margin expansion to 16.6%.
So the aero OEM incentives reduced the reported growth from 4% to 3% and reduce its margin expansion from 70 to 30 basis points.
The rest of the page again remains the same as the previous slide and now I want to move on to slide 9 and discuss the businesses starting with the aerospace.
This first slide highlights the fourth quarter reported and organic sales growth rate for aerospace.
As a reminder in the fourth quarter 2013 aerospace recognized an IP mitigation settlement resulting in a onetime royalty gain of 63 million in defense and space that was offset at the time by OEM incentive in BGA.
Both of these items were included in and therefore netted out in sales and segment profit at the aerospace level in 2013.
Total reported aerospace sales were down 6% in the fourth quarter of 2014 driven by three items the 184 million OEM incentives that we discussed in our outlook call back in December; two the friction materials divestiture which closed in the third quarter; and three the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange on reported results.
Whether on an organic basis fourth quarter sales now were up 4% driven by strong execution across the portfolio and each of the three legacy aero businesses accelerated growth in the fourth quarter compared with the first three quarters.
And transportation systems continued its mid single digits growth performance.
Organic sales growth in aero has accelerated throughout 2014 like Honeywell.
So if you recall aero was up 1% in both the first and second quarters 3% in the third quarter and now 4% to close out the year in the fourth quarter.
If I look at the individual pieces of aerospace starting with commercial OE sales decreased 14% on a reported basis driven by the net unfavorable impact of the OEM incentive.
However on an organic basis sales grew 7% and that was principally the result of robust engine shipments and business in general aviation for the Bombardier Challenger 350 and Embraer Legacy 500.
Moving to commercial after market you can see 4% sales growth on both the reported and organic basis.
ATR spares growth was balanced across both mechanical and electrical product lines offsetting moderation in BGARMUs thats retrofit modifications and upgrade.
Both airline and business jet repair and overhaul activity improved in the quarter as well.
Defense and space sales declined 3% on a reported basis driven by the absence of the prior year licensing royalty gain I just mentioned.
However on an organic basis sales were up 2% in the quarter.
International programs continued to drive growth with double digit sales increases offsetting modest declines in our U.S.
DOD and government service businesses in the fourth quarter.
Finally transportation system sales declined 16% on a reported basis reflecting the third quarter friction materials divestiture and foreign exchange headwinds.
On an organic basis TS sales increased 4% in the quarter as we once again saw strong volume growth in light vehicle gas applications where we continue to see increased global penetration.
We are also continuing to see our European commercial vehicle volumes grow as we benefit from new programs following the implementation of Euro 6 submission regulations in the region.
As you can see the underlying business growth trends across the aero portfolio remain positive consistent with the outlook we have provided to you in December.
So I am now on slide 10 continuing with aerospace.
The fourth quarter sales results and commentary are consistent with what I just discussed.
So for the full year aerospace sales declined 1% on a reported basis driven by the friction materials divestiture and the impact of the OEM incentives.
On an organic basis sales increased 2%.
Aerospace margins contracted by 160 basis points in the quarter driven by the OEM incentives but excluding the 184 million charge for the OEM incentives.
Segment margins in the fourth quarter were actually up 210 basis points driven by productivity net of inflation where material productivity continued to be a significant driver.
Also commercial excellence and a favorable impact of the friction materials divestiture.
And for the full year you can see that aero segment margins expanded 140 basis points again excluding the OEM incentives.
So let's turn to ACS results on slide 11.
ACS sales were up 6% on an organic basis in the quarter excluding an approximate 3% headwind from APEX.
The growth came in above our guidance with both ESS and BSD finishing the year strong.
ESS sales for the products businesses were up 7% on an organic basis in the quarter continuing the trend of progressively stronger growth noted in each quarter of 2014.
Scanning &amp; Mobility continues to perform well driven by new product introductions and large program wins such as the U.S.
coastal service program we had in the last quarter.
In addition we continue to realize integration benefits from Intermec supporting the strong growth we have seen from the combination of the two businesses.
The pending acquisition as Dave mentioned of Datamax-O'Neil compliments our existing portfolio in the attractive bar code printing space acquired with Intermec.
As for the rest of ESS growth was driven by new product introductions further penetration in high growth regions higher residential sales which benefited both ECC and securities.
And improvements in the non-resi market which benefited our supplier and industrial safety businesses.
Building solutions and distribution sales were up 4% on an organic basis in the fourth quarter with continued strength in the Americas Fire and Security distribution businesses and acceleration in building solutions.
Particularly within building solutions we saw a good growth in the Americas as well as an increase in higher margin service business.
Both the building solutions backlog and service banks were up mid to high single digit on an organic basis supporting our outlook and confidence for sales acceleration in 2015.
ACS margins expanded 70 basis points to 15.9% in the quarter.
The business continues to benefit from good conversion on higher volumes and productivity net of inflation supported by our HOS initiatives offset by continued investments for growth.
In addition we continue to realize incremental synergy benefits from combination of Intermec with HSM.
So overall very good growth and execution of ACS and a lot more to come as the team continues to coordinate the individual businesses more and more through connected ACS which is an initiative to drive an enhanced degree of integration across the businesses and in particular in the supply chain and product developments and in the marketing areas.
Alex will take more about this at our Investor Day in March.
So moving to slide 12 for performance materials and technologies PMT sales in the quarter were up 2.6 billion up 3% on an organic basis were approximately flat on a reported basis driven by foreign exchange headwinds.
We will address the impact of lower oil prices on the PMT businesses in a moment but there was very little impact on PMT results in the quarter.
For the fourth quarter UOP sales decreased 1% on an organic basis and as a reminder UOP had exceptional organic growth in the fourth quarter of 2013 you will recall.
They were up 17% last year driven primarily by increased catalyst sales so a very difficult comparison year-on-year.
UOP executed very well reflecting strong licensing revenue which partially offset the lower catalyst sale.
We also continued to see strong order trends in gas processing particularly at UOP Russell giving us confidence as we head into 2015 and we anticipate further sales growth in 2016 and 2017 for the new capacity additions across UOP and also through advanced materials which come online in 2015.
In process solutions organic sales growth continues to accelerate.
HPS was up 6% in the quarter while on a reported basis sales were flat at the organic or the strong organic international growth was offset by foreign exchange headwinds.
HPS saw strong volume growth driven by the advanced solution software business and the HPS service business in all regions.
Orders backlog and service bank growth also continued at a strong pace up double digits on an organic basis in the quarter and this orders growth increased steadily throughout 2014 which sets process solutions out nicely for accelerated sales growth in 2015 and beyond.
Advanced material sales increased 4% on an organic basis driven by double digit sales and orders growth in flowing products and demand for a new low global warming potential suite of Solstice products continue to grow.
This was partially offset by a decline in resins and chemical sales in the low single digit range.
Driven principally by the market base pricing model whereby selling prices are closely tied the market price of raw materials.
Most notably benzene which is highly correlated to the price of oil.
Well sales can be volatile.
The pricing model largely protects the profit dollars in resin and chemical even on lower sales.
PMT segment margins were up 90 basis points to 16.5% which exceeded our guidance driven by higher volumes and productivity net of inflation probably offset by a continued investments for growth.
In UOP the higher mix of licensing revenue in the quarter resulted in a tailwind to margin.
HPS also converted particularly well continuing with successful business transformation and benefiting from the growth I mentioned in the higher margin advance solution software and service businesses.
I am now on slide 13 labelled 2015 planning update.
And similar to what we did in December related to the impact of oil price declines on the portfolio I wanted to address some of the major global trends affecting our portfolio and explain how each of these items are impacting our plans for 2015.
Let me start with oil price declines.
Overall we continue to view the impact from lower oil prices as being net neutral to UOP and HPS.
The upstream exploration and production parts of the value chain continue to represent at relatively small portion of our portfolio roughly 10% to 15% of the combine UOP and HPS businesses.
And our upstream backlog has held firm.
We are beginning to see some delays further downstream in countries that have net oil producers such as Russia and the Middle East.
As refining and petrochemical progress decisions are deferred.
On the other hand in countries that are big importers of oil most notably China India and the South East Asia region.
As we had anticipated the lower oil price has stimulated more discretionary mid and downstream spending where we are well positioned.
This is being borne out for example in process solutions where orders and backlog grew roughly double digits on an organic basis in the quarter as I highlighted earlier.
So again we think oil prices are neutral the UOP and HPS businesses at this time however we continue to monitor this activity closely as we look ahead.
Sales in residents and chemicals will be negatively impacted by lower prices for the -- lower oil prices for the reasons I mentioned earlier.
But while sales can be volatile the pricing model again largely protects our profit dollars in this business even on the lower sales.
Finally we anticipate will begin to see the favorable effects of lower oil prices on our cost structure particularly in our indirect spend and we believe this will accelerate throughout 2015.
Of course it remained to be seen how oil prices will impact the global economy should prices stay below $50 longer term.
However we continue this will be a net positive for the economy and Honeywell over the planning horizons.
Turning to currency fluctuations weve obviously seen a continued weakening of the Euro.
As we highlighted in December our 2015 plan is based on the Euro exchange rate of $1.20 as the midpoint.
We have hedges in place covering approximately 80% of our Euro P&amp;L exposure so whether we continue to be pressure on the sales line our Euro based earnings are protected.
We also continue to see volatility across our other currency exposure which again are likely to result in headwinds of the top line however similar to hedging we done for the Euro the actions weve taken largely protect our 2015 earnings outlook for these other currencies as well.
And we will continue to actively monitor the situation.
The outlook for the U.S.
economy continue to improve and we are expecting a positive uptick in our U.S.
businesses as a result.
But we also remain focused on increasing our presence in high growth regions.
As a reminder HGR now represents almost a quarter of our total business and are expected to drive 50% of the sales growth over the course of our five year plan.
The population growth urbanization and infrastructure development continue to create attractive opportunities across our entire portfolio.
In China we anticipate high single digit growth in 2015 after a year of roughly mid single digit growth in 2014.
Our initiative of becoming the Chinese competitor continued to accelerate and bear fruit.
Investments and local sales and marketing resources are targeted to the higher growth cities in China where local economies are growing much faster than the overall China GP.
Also our one Honeywell approach specifically in ACS continues to drive cross selling opportunities across multiple channels.
In addition we are building a robust pipeline of new products here towards the macro trends in the region namely air purification energy efficiency and security.
All these factors give us confidence in accelerated growth for Honeywell in China in 2015.
In India after the investments across the region slowed in the first half of the year while the elections unfolded the second half of 2014 was very strong for Honeywell and we anticipate growth will be roughly high single digits in 2015 driven by international defensive space business new launches in transportation systems new product introductions in ESS across each of our major verticals and growth in BSD from infrastructure projects and services.
In Russia where our exposure is limited we have less than about 500 million in annual sales there.
We continue to have a strong backlog in our long cycle businesses.
We expect Russia to continue focusing their available capital on energy so oil and gas and renewal of their aerospace sector two areas where our portfolio is well positioned to grow.
Our short cycle businesses in Russia have been impacted particularly as it relates to currency devaluation but again the exposure there is relatively small.
And while our management team is paying close attention to the issues faced in the country we are also continuing to look for opportunities to enhance our business in the region.
In the Middle East we expect continued double-digit sales growth in 2015 after approximately 20% growth in 2014 and this is driven by big wins in both the short and long cycle businesses as infrastructure investments continue.
Our portfolio was well positioned to benefit from even outpays in some cases to attractive growth rates in these markets.
Turning to the non-residential sector we are encouraged by the expected acceleration of commercial construction spending.
Forecast to be up approximately 4.5% in 2015 and the continued solid growth on the industrial side in 2015.
So as a reminder roughly 75% of the ACS portfolio serves the commercial industrial market and our balance portfolio is well positioned to capitalize on improvements in these areas.
More specifically on the commercial product side after modest growth through the first three quarters of 2014 we saw some acceleration of fourth quarter with strong growth in the U.S.
We expect the U.S.
to continue to drive further commercial products growth in 2015 as well as acceleration in our high growth regions with strength in our ECC and Fire Systems businesses in particular.
In the industrial products markets we expect higher sales of industrial safety equipment particularly in Americas which represents about half of our exposure.
As for building solutions the backlog from our projects businesses and service bank through mid and high single digit respectively on an organic basis this quarter and we continue to expect energy efficiency project to support global acceleration in 2015.
With regard to our pension plans the net effects of higher investment returns and lower discount rates will drive up a 125 million increase to pension income for 2015.
Now we intend to fully offset that increase with restructuring over the course of the year.
In total our international pension plans represent approximately 25% of our worldwide defined benefit pension obligations.
In the U.S.
we ended the year with a discounted rate of 4.08% and a return on assets of 8% which resulted in U.S.
funded status of approximately 95%.
Globally the funded status is about 94%.
We do not anticipate any 2015 cash contributions related to our U.S.
plants.
Let me turn to slide 14 to summarize our outlook for 2015.
Our full year guidance is identical with what we shared with you in December.
We continue to expect sales in the range of 40.5 billion to 41.1 billion up 1% to 2% on a reported basis and up approximately 4% on an organic basis.
Reported sales growth is expected to be lower in organic primarily due to the impact of friction material divestiture and the foreign exchange headwinds.
We are planning segment margin expansion of 100 basis points to 130 basis points or up 60 to 90 basis points excluding the fourth quarter OEM incentives.
We are projecting EPS and this excludes the pension market adjustment of $5.95 to $6.15 representing 7% to 11% growth versus 2014.
The quarterly growth trends remained in line with our prior year results and this range also continues to be based on a full year income tax rate assumption of 26.5% and share account held roughly flat to 2014 level.
Free cash flow is expected to be in the range of 4.2 billion to 4.3 billion up 8% to 10% from 2014 with CAPEX investments peaking at roughly two times this depreciation in a more normalized rate of CAPEX investment so around 1.25 times depreciation we expect free cash flow conversion to be at roughly 100%.
So I am now on slide 15 with the preview of the first quarter.
For total Honeywell were expecting sales of 9.4 billion to 9.6 billion thats down 1% to 2% reported but up 3% to 4% on an organic basis.
Segment margins are expected to be up approximately 110 basis points and EPS is expected to be in the range of $1.36 to $1.41 up 6% to 10% versus 2014.
Starting with aerospace sales are expected to be up 3% to 4% on an organic basis was down 2% to 4% on a reported basis reflecting the year-over-year absence of friction materials as well as foreign exchange headwinds.
We are expecting positive organic sales growth from each of the four businesses in the quarter.
In commercial OE we are expecting sales up lower to mid single digit driven primarily by new platform wins and BGA.
The growth is driven by favorable demand trends for high value business jet platforms where we have significant new engine content.
In commercial after market we are expecting sales to be up low single digit with continued repair and overhaul growth as well as ATR spares growth in the quarter driven by higher demand for both mechanical and electrical products.
Partially offset by a decline in BGA RMUs against the challenging prior year comparisons.
Defensive space sales are expected to be up lower to mid single digit in the quarter driven by continued strength in international businesses.
In transportation system sales are expected to be up mid single digit on an organic basis were down significantly on a reported basis driven by the absence of friction and the foreign exchange headwinds I mentioned.
On organic basis the growth in TS is primarily driven by new launches and strong light vehicle gas demand at each of our three key regions U.S.
Europe and China.
As for aerospace margins we expect an increase 100 to 120 basis points driven by commercial excellence significant productivity improvements across the portfolio along with the favorable impact on the margin rate from the friction material divestiture.
Turn to ACS sales are expected to be up 4% to 5% organically or flat to up 2% on a reported basis with continued mid single digit organic growth in both ESS and BSG.
The difference between reported organic rates reflects the foreign exchange headwinds in the quarter.
The end markets where we primarily participate residential commercial and industrial are all looking moderately better as we start 2015 and we continue to benefit from new product introductions and high growth region penetration.
Also the strong orders growth we saw at the end of 2014 involve the short and long cycle businesses gives us increasing confidence in our outlook for 2015.
ACS margins are expected to be up 100 to 120 basis points with continued benefits from commercial excellence and productivity net of inflation while accelerating investments for growth and new product area such as connected homes and in high growth region.
Further we expect to realize synergies from integration of Datamax-O'Neil acquisition after the transaction closes as we did with Intermec throughout 2014.
In PMT sales are expected to be approximately flat on an organic basis and down approximately 1% to 3% reported driven by foreign exchange headwinds and the impact of lower oil prices on resins and chemicals a point I made earlier.
Excluding these factors PMT sales are expected to be approximately 4% in the quarter.
We are expecting UOP to be up low single digit with gas processing sales expected to drive majority of the growth.
In HPS were expecting organic sales up mid single digit.
A favorable orders and backlog growth we saw in 14 will support the sales acceleration in 2015.
On the advance material side we are expecting a low to mid single digit organic sales decline principally driven by a double digit decline in resins and chemicals due to the fact as I mentioned earlier.
These declines are offset by a continued strength in our flooring products business which is benefitting from increased demand relating to the new products principally the Solstice product suite.
Also PMT segment margins in the quarter are expected to be up 100 to 120 basis points versus 2014 driven by higher volumes and productivity as well as a favorable margin rate impact of the market based pricing model in resins and chemicals.
Let me move to slide 16 for a quick wrap up.
In 2014 we demonstrated once again that Honeywell can deliver on its commitment in a relatively slow growth economy and amidst of very volatile global trends reminding once again the value of our diversified and balanced portfolio the management team focused on execution and the strength of the Honeywell playbook and P&amp;A.
Combined these enabled us to add to our performance track record as we exceeded guidance on sales achieved significant growth in segment margins and delivered on double-digit EPS growth we originally laid out last December.
We are going to continue investing in our future with a focus on profitable sales growth.
This will continue to meet investments in high ROI CAPEX and new product development and in sales and marketing resources particularly in high growth regions.
The investments are paying off and you can see it in our results.
As we turn our attention to 2015 we recognize the uncertainty in the macro environment but this is not new for us.
We have and will continue to plan conservatively.
We are confident that our portfolio is well positioned for continued outperformance.
Our order trends both short and long cycle point to accelerated sales growth for next year that should enable continued strong improvement in our profitability.
We are forecasting strong organic growth in 2015 and over 100 basis point improvement in our margins as our HOS golden issues are deployed across the portfolio.
In addition we have significant restructuring savings in the bank for 2015.
So we will continue to execute in 2015 and beyond.
We are very excited about the upcoming year and have a lot of momentum across the portfolio as we head into year two of our five year plan.
We look forward to telling you more on our March 4th Investor Day.
So with that Mark let us go to the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Tom.
Lisa if you would please open the line for questions.
Operator Thank you sir the floor is now open for question.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from Steve Winoker with Bernstein.
Hey good morning all.
Hey Steve.
After last quarter's multitude of congratulations I am hesitant to say it again Dave but I will say nice quarter and I guess I will get blamed by all my colleagues out there for doing this.
Yeah but same thing is nice.
You wouldnt want to do something like that.
Well I am trying to be very cautious on that front.
It is one of my development needs.
So any way listen on the outlook call we spent a lot of time you guys provided a great amount detail for thinking through the oil price -- declining oil price impact across all your businesses and I am trying to compare that to what Tom just walked us through but the thing that really is of maybe concern to me is that midstream downstream commentary where in December you really talked about how it was a net positive in terms of refined product demand investment downstream and other areas.
I would just like to get a little more color on that particularly around the impact of maybe narrowing oil and gas spreads on some of those investments that are happening out there just some more color on why we shouldnt be worried about this for you guys and why is it actually a good thing? I will kind of start with my perspective on it and turn it over to Tom for even more color commentary.
But there is a difference between the upstream and the mid and downstream segments as you know and the mid and downstream in my view are going to be driven more by overall economic activity.
Demand for that could be driven more by overall economic activity than whatever oil prices are.
As a result of that I am expecting to see increased demand for refined goods and products which is going to cause greater demand on the mid and downstream side.
Offsetting that at least in the short term is probably going to be some of the investments in places like Russia and Middle East perhaps some in Brazil but they had already slowed significantly.
That we will be more than offset by where everybody has to crank up everywhere else around the world.
So that's kind of an overview that I see for it and as you probably know for the first time in five years I am actually a little more bullish on where the global economy is going than economic forecasts are.
For the last four years I had been more negative generally and so far that's been a good call.
But this time I think it could be more positive than what they think because that impacts.
The lower oil prices is causing this major redistribution from oil producing to oil using economies and those oil using economies are quite large.
So overall I think this is a good phenomenon it is going to help drive more of that mid and downstream investments.
Tom.
Yeah again what I would reiterate is the portion of our HPS and UOP business that's in the mid and downstream number one.
Number two the backlogs really backed up by the strong second half particularly in HPS are really strong.
If you look at HPS the backlog on a constant currency basis up 12% year-over-year and UOP backlog is also the UOP backlog is relatively flat 0% to 1%.
But when I look at UOP continue to be always a lumpy business.
Fourth quarter was a difficult comparison as I said we had 17% growth from the fourth quarter 2013.
But the backlog is strong as its ever been its holding up and our growth rate in 2015 are forecasted for UOP is at mid single digit growth or constantly look at all the indicators.
And UOP is lumpy but with a very positive trend.
And Tom you are not seeing any backlog price renegotiations.
There is a lot of chatter about that in the market.
No not at all we probe and probe this you might imagine and the only development I would say is you know deferral on new orders where you know multibillion dollar investments where decisions are being thought through carefully in the regions that Dave mentioned.
But by and large thats about the only impact weve seen so far.
Okay Ill hand it off thanks.
Hi good morning guys.
Hey Scott.
I am glad to see you guys are bullish.
We havent had a lot of positive conversations in the last couple of months.
But maybe you can I think your view on oil was pretty clear Dave but give us a sense of a view on currency and really the angle I am looking for is weve had a such a violent move that how does it change to competitive landscape.
Do you see guys who can come in from Japan or other high cost regions like in Europe that can now suddenly compete against you and areas where they couldnt compete against you before is that real or not real.
Well as you know the Japan phenomenon on this been a currency phenomenon.
Its been a couple years in the making and I cant say that we ever saw much of an impact from any of that.
I guess it remains to be seen on what happens with European competitors but again not thinking much of anything happening there when it comes to the overall currency weve assumed the U.S.
dollar would strengthen for a while now and were little surprised actually that didnt happen sooner than it has.
So I would say it is one of those things weve been kind of counting on happening and as you know this is the first time in well this is my going into my 14th year this is the first time weve ever hedged the Euro translation and its solely because it seems like that was the 70% debt at this point.
Who knows things have a way of changing in ways that you never predict.
But I still think that the prospect of 110 Euro this year is entirely possible.
The other thing I would add Dave is the hard cost base.
We do benefit in some cases from the decline Scott you are are fully aware we have significant production capacity in China and Mexico and other parts of the Eastern Europe.
So we do feel like our position from a supply chain perspective and cost base perspective does enable us to continue to compete with the  of the competitors you referred to.
I hope you got the good point Tom just made Scott.
Okay.
We have great presence in Europe already.
We have a big base there about 30 000 employees so we have a base to compete from.
Okay fair enough and then guys give us a -- I was encouraged by what you said about non resin our forecast is actually a little bit higher than your forecast so I hope we are right and you are not right but either way directionally it is the right answer.
But can you walk around the world a bit on that and whats really tough for us to get a feel for as weve got great data in the U.S.
on non resin and things that we use to contract and once we get outside of the U.S.
it starts to get a little bit more difficult.
So can you walk us around the world and more in context on maybe your order book or backlog or how you see it playing out in different regions? Sure it will be pretty consistent with how were seeing the economy.
The U.S.
would say I hope you are right also.
Were little lower in our estimation but we think that continues to rise upward and its still kind of a reflection of the great recession and you heard us say the time about we shape in we shape out slow in slow out and non res construction is more of a slow in slow out.
So we think its a nice steady gain and that just continues.
You can argue there is some offset to that with the oil and gas CAPEX but that has really minimal effect on our non res construction business.
In Europe it is consistent with the economy it is going to be very slow.
China probably going to continue to be a mix and interesting phenomenon there because the tier one cities that are still experiencing more of the economic slowdown they still could use more housing and in the some of the tier 2 3 4 cities where GDP is going to be growing faster may have been over built a little bit.
So that one is still to be figured out but overall we think it is still a net positive on non res construction.
India there could be an awakening in India.
I have never seen such excitement in the business community in the 20 plus years that I have been going there so I am actually pretty encouraged about what they could be doing and in fact I am going there tomorrow to be there for the Presidents visit as part of this U.S.
India CEO forum.
And I really think there could be a kickoff there that weve all really been waiting for for at least 10 or 12 years now.
And one could turn out to be quite a good positive.
The thing I would add to that Dave is Scott to get your questions on the non resi I look at our exposure in the products businesses in ACS principally in fire and in some of their commercial business in ECC.
As I said in my comments the growth rate had been very nice mid single digits approaching and double digits in some cases.
So you know good trends there and then in building solutions where we have the -- we provide both projects and services in that same space.
The order rates and backlog has been good.
If you look at the backlog overall for the business its up about mid single digit over last year.
And its across all the regions.
It is actually double digit in Europe but that comes off a lower comparison but overall each of the regions are in that range.
So we feel like its heading in the right direction.
Its encouraging.
Well have a safe trip to India Dave and give the President my best.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you good morning gents.
Hey Jeff.
Hey just a couple things back to the energy exposures and the like.
On UOP in particular and kind of the capacity that you put in place do you guys have people contractually locked up there is there any kind of take or pay or if this thing does kind of unexpectedly to kind of a sharper turn to the worse you are kind of exposed there? Exposure is not that great it helps that we get up front payments on the technology licensing.
So yes if there was a severe downturn of course we feel it but I am not that worried about it right now.
I mean we are seeing a few refinery cancellations in the U.S.
just two this week alone.
I was also just wondering on hedges Tom how those work was there a P&amp;L expense in 2014 to prep yourself here for 2015 or is that running through on the balance sheet somehow? No good question Jeff.
All of the hedges qualify for mark to market accounting.
I am sorry qualify for not mark to market I am sorry about that.
So the impact of the hedge instruments when they settle would be recognized at the same time the underlying items that are being hedged are recognized.
So there is nothing unusual its just the extent of the currencies that weve gone out and hedged.
Okay and I was just wondering if you could give a little more specific color on aero spares.
When you spoke to kind of aftermarket generally and kind of all in with R&amp;O but whats going on in spares trends are you seeing more activities over aeroplanes that might be fuel cost related or anything that kind of stands out? Id say on the -- its a little bit of a dichotomy between ATR and BGA but real strong growth on the ATR side than mid single digit growth on the spares.
Its growing on BGA side as well but not as significantly but we do expect that to improve and the ATR trends to continue for 2015.
Okay great.
Thank you guys.
Youre welcome.
Hey guys good morning.
Hey Steve.
Mediocre quarter but you now its good enough for you Dave.
Just on UOP just remind us how much of that business is new projects and if you were to see an air pocket in new projects what kind of backlog do you have today to kind of give you a little bit of leeway to take action.
So for example in the first quarter if you saw that number go down 30% when would that hit you revenue wise I mean is that even a 2016 issue or is that more like a 2017 issue? Or is it a 2015 issue? I guess I would consider the composition that UOP backlog Steve to kind of answer that question.
As I said the backlog has held up very well.
But you have a tough time even in the recession I dont think its more that often.
I think on the capital side a lot of these where we come in on these capital projects is towards the middle or the end and so the most of the capital spent in the ground and we can make it solid and the systems and the technology.
So the backlog is holding up.
I would also say that if you look at the composition of the backlog its in the catalyst its in equipment and its in gas and in all three places its holding up and there is really not any material difference from what we are seeing.
So like Dave said I havent heard or seen anything in terms of potential declines there.
Right but I guess I am just trying to understand what kind of visibility and timing dynamics play in to your ability to take action if you do see something like that? Well we have time to react not just there but around the company.
Right and your orders and backlog in UOP and the orders in the fourth quarter and then what your backlog in the year at.
I dont know that we disclose that backlog.
Wasnt it like 2.8 billion or something like that at the end of the third quarter.
I know you guys gave a number your HPS day at November I believe? Not at the top of my head but we can get back to you on that one.
Okay and I guess just one other question on the capital allocation.
And any kind of change in philosophy around buybacks versus deals here anything getting a little more attractive and is the market kind of bumps around? I wouldnt say our philosophy has changed and thats why you saw thats increased dividend greater than the earnings rate this year because thats consistent with our five year plan of raising the payout ratio over this five year period.
So that is going to continue to be a priority for us.
And Id say on the M&amp;A pipeline I am actually feeling better about that then I have in these past few months.
I always felt good about it but Id say the work Roger is doing and its businesses are doing is improving that overall pipeline.
Doesnt mean anything is going to be happening soon.
But I can say I feel better about it.
I think there is some increasingly lets say good properties it would be very good fit with Honeywell if we can make them have them.
Got you great.
Thanks a lot.
Youre welcome.
Thanks good morning.
Hey Nigel.
Hey Dave so you mentioned youre feeling more bullish in the consensus for first time in the five years and everyone is against CFO hot spot is coming somewhat it sounds like you might be about to deploy the balance sheet is that a fair comment you mentioned the backlog is looking pretty  but just conceptually is that correct? Just like trying to study youre saying am I getting ready to do something? Well just give me assets and multiple that comes down a little bit and you got more bullish view on the economy then most competitors? Yes well I would never of course say anything one way or the other there Nigel.
Id just say I am encouraged by the work the guys are doing on the pipeline and the stuff I am seeing.
And weve got the capability and we are just going to continue to be smart about it.
Okay thats fair.
And you all see the commissary around done solutions is really encouraging and its because he will be general construction activity.
But I am wondering the end the performance contracting and the saving part of that circle for you.
are you seeing similar trends there and there is bit of debate thats low energy prices may some of this look pickup pushed out do you agree with that whole process? I guess you would have to say yes possible but we are not seeing that because its not like $50 oil is cheap.
It wasnt that long ago that we were concerned that it could be a recession if it hit 35? So 50:50 is not cheap its cheaper than it was but not cheap.
Okay and youre similar trends in the before the contracting side of things? Yes orders are good there.
Okay and just a quick one on the hedge accounting term.
So the way that works is you take the full impact on the top line and then the mitigation institute the line? Well actually the items that we are hedging and we can get into a complicated accounting lesson here but the items that we are hedging are actually cost items and we are doing it selectively throughout the portfolio.
As you can appreciate we have a global supply chain and a lot of currency movement across borders.
What we do is focus on hedging the expense items and that enables you to protect the overall P&amp;L but what that leaves open is the top line and so the top line is in a lot of cases exposed to currency movement.
Right and then just quickly I think you mentioned you hedged down to 110 is that correct Tom? No I said our plan was based on 120 and weve hedged at a rate that I think protects that pretty well.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
Thank you good morning everyone.
Hey Joe.
Dave I guess since last time I saw you guys say congratulations to your past just like notwithstanding.
But the? Not reading the post and the news just ahead of the ball so to speak with this.
Indeed they are and they probably should but moving on to maybe a question on capital allocation I just want to ask Nigels question slightly differently valuations have come down especially in oil and gas has your priority in terms of where you are looking for the next target does that change at all just given clearly theyre more attractive valuations on the oil and gas side today? Well I would say I would backup on it I guess and say that great positions in good industries are still going be kind of a fundamental for us.
And secondly pricing makes the difference.
So there is a lot of stuff that weve liked in a lot of different segments many of which weve outlined for you in the past.
And were going to continue to look at does pricing makes sense does it makes sense today versus further into the future.
And we tend to try to be pretty careful about timing when it goes into even picking of a great position in a good industry.
Okay that makes sense and I guess given this month you just got back from your top 300 meeting Id be curious to hear how do you feel about the progress that you guys are making in terms of pivoting the company really to an organic growth story.
The margin story is there but really pivoting to organic growth and improving your cash flow conversion over the next few years? Maybe the best way to say it is that coming out of that meeting we had 300 unbelievably energized people even more so than Ive seen in the past and everybody is really pretty bullish not just about what weve done but about where things are going.
And HOS Gold and what we are doing to develop and fund the breakthrough initiatives the 76 enterprises is really energizing everybody around the world its just wonderful to see.
Okay alright.
So pretty confident in the outlook there and I guess maybe one last follow up question on TS.
Tom you mentioned that the growth has been really good.
Your exposure is predominantly to Europe and youve got auto builds that are expected to moderate in 2015.
You mentioned in your prepared comments that there has been increasing improvement in the light vehicle gas application.
Is your portfolio positioned well for that opportunity and maybe just a little bit of color there? Well first of all the and what I am referring to is that the increase penetration turbos on the gas combustion engines on light vehicles that thats just a trend that were seeing in the U.S.
China India everywhere and we are well positioned to take advantage of that.
We have got not just manufacturing capacity in each of those places but also your local product development capacity and engineering teams that work with the OEMs in those region.
So it feels like were pretty well positioned and the growth rates support that.
Okay thanks guys.
Id get back in queue.
Thank you good morning.
Hey a lot of detail already just drilling into ACS a little bit.
Its nice to see a 6% organic number against the 5% organic comp a year ago in particular just wondering how you guys are kind of processing attribution here in terms of markets first execution against VPD and HUE and things like that? Pretty well overall.
I think some of the businesses are doing extremely well with it and so the scanning and mobility for example we have to highlight the gas detection business is done extremely well with it and then Id say everybody else is kind of in the middle of progress but progress is good everywhere.
It is really working well.
Okay thanks that was all.
Youre welcome.
Thanks Lisa.
With that Id like to hand the call back to Dave for final remarks.
Well were proud of what weve done but even more importantly we are excited about where we are going.
Our business model really does work and while I believe that lower oil prices will lead to a slightly better global economy than whats forecasted currently will plan conservatively as always to ensure that we do deliver on our commitments to you.
We believe we are well positioned to deliver on our five year commitment to you and we look forward to seeing many of you at our March Investor Day where well share more about how and why well get there.
And in the mean time the following Sunday in a very American Sport I hope we can all be Patriots.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Honeywells First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants have been placed on a listen-only mode and the floor will be open for your questions following the presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I'd now like to introduce your host for todays conference Mark Macaluso Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you Michael.
Good morning and welcome to Honeywells first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
With me here today are Chairman and CEO Dave Cote Senior Vice President and CFO Tom Szlosek.
This call and webcast including any non-GAAP reconciliations are available on our website at www.honeywell.com/investor.
Note that elements of this presentation contains forward-looking statements that are based on our best view of the world and of our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change and we ask that you interpret them in that light.
We identify the principle risks and uncertainties that affect our performance in our 10-K and other SEC filings.
This morning we will review our financial results for the first quarter and share with you our guidance for the second quarter and full year of 2015.
Finally as always we'll leave time for your questions at the end.
With that Ill turn the call over to Chairman and CEO Dave Cote.
Good morning everyone.
As I'm sure you've seen by now Honeywell delivered another quarter of double-digit earnings growth to kick off 2015 driven by our diverse portfolio and effective execution what continues to be a challenging macro environment.
Our earnings per share of $1.41 increased 10% year-over-year coming in at the high end of our guidance range.
The macro environment in the first quarter wasn't easy with headwinds from extreme weather port shutdowns decline in oil and gas investments and a strengthening US dollar.
Sales in the quarter of $9.2 billion while up to 2% on a core organic basis were down 5% reported.
Our performance was driven by decent organic growth and strong sales conversion with segment margins expanding 220 basis points to 18.7%.
And as you'll hear from Tom a bit later a large portion of the margin expansion came from improving gross margins something a bit different than the past.
It results from our focus on HOS both direction and indirect material and new products.
Our key process initiatives are driving meaningful results throughout the portfolio.
140 basis points of the segment margin rate improvement was driven by commercial excellence and productivity.
The rest of the improvement comes from smart decisions we've made about the portfolio.
An important enabler of the productivity continues to be the savings we're seeing from previously funded restructuring actions.
We're being proactive about keeping that pipeline full which we think is critical to supporting our continued margin expansion in 2016 and beyond.
However while managing our costs is important we're also focused on supporting sales growth by investing in capacity expansion new products and technologies and resources in high growth regions.
As a result of that strong first quarter performance and our confidence in the remainder of the year we are raising the low end of our full year guidance by a nickel to a new range of $6 to $6.15 or up 8% to 11% versus the prior year.
As we've been saying since December we want to ensure we're remaining balanced in our planning for 2015 while continuing our seed planting investments for the future.
In the quarter we proactively funded about $40 million of restructuring building on a healthy pipeline of new projects and we've continued our transactional and translational hedging into 2016.
The euro is our biggest exposure.
In 2015 we've hedged approximately 85% of our euro P&amp;L exposure in an average rate of about $1.24.
For 2016 we have again hedged approximately 85% of our euro P&amp;L exposure at a plan rate of $1.10.
In the current environment we believe the certainty this provides is prudent and generates the time needed to offset the impact in future years.
We also continue seed planting for exciting new HUE based products technologies and process improvements that will help us continue to win in the marketplace.
On HOS Gold we are continuing to invest across our gold enterprises to create units that grow faster and are more profitable than our competitors.
We want to marry big company cost efficiency which is real if its done correctly and technical and functional excellence with small company speed and customer responsiveness accomplishing two seemingly conflicting things at the same time.
Each HOS gold unit is identifying breakthrough strategies and moves into smart new areas and adjacencies.
In early May we'll be kicking off our 2015 technology symposium a forum that brings together approximately 400 Honeywell technology marketing and management representatives from all of the businesses.
This annual event which started about 10 years ago provides opportunities for ongoing collaboration and idea generation and is focused on driving breakthrough innovations supported by differentiated processes and technologies all of which helps enhance our great positions in good industries.
Process solutions open the Honeywell industrial cyber security lab in Duluth Georgia to advance development and testing of new technologies and software to defend industrial facilities and operations like refineries and manufacturing plants from cyber attacks.
We also recently inaugurated three new research and development labs at the Honeywell center of excellence in Brno Czech Republic and plan to open another five labs within a months as part of a $10 million investment in the region to support both aerospace and ACS.
In March we closed the acquisition of Datamax-ONeil a global manufacturer of fixed and mobile printers.
Datamax-ONeil portfolio of solutions expand Honeywell's ability to deliver enhance work flow performance and the team is very excited about this acquisition which builds on existing printing capabilities acquired with Intermec.
Scanning and mobility continues to execute very well delivering another quarter of double-digit core organic sales growth in the first quarter driven primarily by volume from key wins most recently the US Postal Service deal signed last year.
We also continue to be excited about the flooring products portfolio where we saw particular strength up double-digits on a core organic basis driven by the ramp up of our Solstice low global warming suite of products.
We've seen increasing demand for these products where we now have a lifetime value of signed agreements of about $2.6 billion and another $800 million under negotiation.
As we look ahead we're cautious overall on the macro environment like I've been for five years.
While we continue to expect that the benefit of lower oil prices will eventually play through in the US and in oil importing nations this is really yet to be seen.
There was weakness in January across the portfolio that we weren't able to fully recover from but we did see good signs of improvement as the quarter progressed.
GDP growth rates globally are weaker than most had expected for the first quarter.
Now we think weather had some impact early in the quarter in the US but the slowdown was not unique to the US.
With all that said the majority of our businesses exited the quarter with momentum following more robust core organic growth rates in both February and March.
Nevertheless we're going to continue to plan conservatively to navigate the current headwinds including oil and gas and as always we're not counting on a pickup in the global economy.
We are well positioned to continue performing in this environment.
Our portfolio is aligned to favorable macro trends and provides significant runway to grow.
We have great positions in good industries.
We're investing to grow faster than the markets we serve and we'll stay the course on seed planting and continuous improvement initiatives.
We're going to stay flexible and follow the play book you've come to expect from us so that we can deliver on this year next year and beyond.
So with that I'll turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Dave.
And good morning.
I'm now on slide 4 which shows the first quarter results sales of $9.2 billion were up 2% on a core organic basis but decreased 5% on a reported basis.
The absence of friction materials which you'll recall was still in the portfolio for the first half of 2014 further strengthening of the US dollar and raw materials pricing in resins and chemicals were headwinds driving the negative reported growth this quarter.
However considering the slow start that we got off to in January we were actually 8% down in January versus 2014 on a core organic basis.
So even given that slow start we feel pretty good about the Q1 core organic growth.
Shipment timing in aerospace order delays and PMT and unplanned plant outages in resins and chemicals prevented us from fully meeting our sales expectations but as you'll see later we expect the growth rate to improve as the year progresses.
An important note the 2% core organic sales growth excludes FX M&amp;A and now the raw material pricing impact in resins and chemicals.
Selling prices in resins and chemicals include an element of raw material pass through most notably benzene which is highly correlated to the price of oil.
While the pricing model protects profit dollars sales can be volatile so we've modified the definition here to provide further insight into the underlying volume growth of our businesses.
Segment profit increased 8% with segment margin expanding 220 basis points.
The most impressive part about the segment margin performance is that most of the improvement came through gross margin rates.
HOS Gold is working across Honeywell from our engineering labs to our factories and supply chains to our selling and marketing organizations and even to our back office.
Our deployment of Honeywell user experience in product development is yielding better products that our customers are willing to pay for.
Our supply chains are becoming even more lean and there is a strong collaboration between our engineers sourcing organization and supply chain to drive down our material costs.
Our focus on commercial excellence is yielding more focused sales teams and smarter pricing decisions.
Operating costs are in check with SG&amp;A also contributing to the segment margin rate improvement.
Meanwhile we continue to devote significant resources to the development of new products and the enhancement of existing ones.
As we said in March HOS Gold is a game changer and will be a differentiator for us as it was in this first quarter.
We'll provide some additional color on the Q1 margin expansion in a moment.
The items below segment profit came in as we expected.
We had an increased year-over-year and pension income which was completely offset by restructuring of approximately $40 million.
Note in the prior period operating margin included the restructuring and other charges from the BE Arrow [ph] gain deployment but excluded the gain itself.
So operating margins expanded 340 basis points in the first quarter of 2015 compared to the 220 basis points expansion in segment margin.
Earnings per share was up  earnings per share was $1.41 up 10% year-over-year and at the high end of our guidance range.
We once again achieved double-digits earnings growth driven largely by increases in segment profit.
Year-over-year share count was flat so a good start on the P&amp;L despite the environment.
Finally free cash flow in the quarter of 256 million came in down $240 million from 2014 driven primarily by timing including the payment of the fourth quarter 2014 OEM incentives higher cash taxes and higher working capital requirements particularly in aerospace.
The first quarter has historically proven to be our lowest from a cash perspective and we remain on track to our full year guidance of $4.2 billion to $4.3 billion of free cash flow.
We ended the quarter at approximately $1.3 billion negative net cash position and as we highlighted in March we expect to be in a positive net cash position approximating $1 billion to $2 billion by year end assuming no significant M&amp;A.
Overall we generated strong results in a relatively slow growth environment.
I'm now on slide 5.
I talked previously about the nature of our 220 basis point segment margin improvement.
This slide provides some additional color on the specific drivers of that improvement.
The first category is the core organic or operational drivers which generate 140 of the 220 basis point improvement.
We're often asked to quantify the impact of HOS Gold.
This first category is highly correlated to it.
We can't always commit to triple digit margin expansion from HOS Gold but you can see that the components touch all critical facets of our businesses.
We're benefiting from commercial excellence most prominently in aerospace as well as significant productivity improvement and volume leverage across the portfolio.
New product introductions and further penetration in high growth regions particularly at ACS are also part of it.
We're also seeing savings from previously funded restructuring actions.
Additionally as we indicated we are able to proactively fund another $40 million of restructuring in the first quarter improve our overall cost position and drive further margin expansion going forward.
The remaining three categories on this slide individually look pedestrian but collectively reflect the benefits that our shareholders are realizing from the strategic decisions we have made and executed on.
First you can see the favorable margin impact from the friction materials divestiture which we closed in July of 2014.
This is a permanent improvement in our margin rate from exiting a business that did not meet our portfolio standards.
You can expect to see additional year-over-year favorability in the second quarter from this divestiture and we are always assessing our portfolio to ensure all of our businesses continue to constitute great positions in good industries.
Second our hedging approach for foreign currency provided a big benefit.
As you know we made a decision last summer to expand our hedging approach from protecting our hundreds of individual P&amp;Ls from foreign currency exposure that is transactional exposure to one now where we are protecting the consolidated Honeywell enterprise so that's transactional plus translational exposure.
The hedge strategy is in place to protect our operating results but not necessarily at top line thus the margin lift.
Additionally our merging markets footprint in our engineering organization supply chain and back office also protect us from the strengthening US dollar.
These strategies will be worth $0.12 to $0.13 to our shareholders in 2015 and help drive the margin improvement you see here.
Third in resins and chemicals we have developed the lowest cost operating position in the world.
A competitive position which allows us to run our plants at full capacity.
Material costs are passed through to customers so when raw materials when raw [ph] market conditions are volatile like we're experiencing today margin rates can be impacted in this case favorably.
When the material pass through and therefore sales is reduced but margin remains the same.
Without that low cost position our ability to compete for profitable business would be impaired as would the margin rates.
Moving to slide 6 and the aerospace results you can see here on the comparative sales stack bars that we were highlighting the impacts of inorganic drivers.
Namely for aerospace foreign exchange headwinds and M&amp;A that is the friction materials divesture.
We filed a similar convention on the subsequent pages for both ACS and PMT.
Sales for the first quarter were up 1% on an organic basis but down 6% reported driven by the friction materials divestiture and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency movement mostly in turbo.
Segment margin was up 250 basis points driven by productivity net of inflation commercial excellence and the favorable impacts from the friction divesture and foreign exchange.
So overall great work by the aerospace team to drive robust margin expansion.
From a sales perspective commercial OE was up 1% on an organic basis.
In air transport and regional we saw a continued benefit from higher OE build rates at Boeing airbus and Embraer partially offset by intentionally slower shipments to certain emerging market customers in order to manage temporary funding delays.
In business general and aviation there were lower than expected deliveries on certain platforms that are in transition engine demand is robust so we expect to see a pickup in growth in BGA in the second quarter.
Commercial aircraft sales were up 1% on a core organic basis driven by strong growth in repair and overhaul activities but partially offset by lower spare sales particularly in China and Russia.
We believe that this year represents a normal run rate for spare sales in China after a significant restocking by our airlines customers in 2014.
Also similar to the OE side we intentionally slowed spare shipments to certain emerging market customers as a risk management matter.
Overall we anticipate continued growth in R&amp;O and improvement in spares in the second quarter and into the second half.
Defense and space sales were down 1% on a core organic basis.
We had lower deliveries in the US due to timing but still expect the core organic sales will be up for defense and space on balance for the rest of the year.
Defense and space backlog increased high single digit year-over-year.
We anticipate some ongoing softness in the US but we're very encouraged by the continued double-digit growth of our international defense business which continues to be a tailwind in defense and space.
Finally transportation system sales increased 5% on a core organic basis due to strong volume growth in light vehicle gas applications where we continue to see increased global penetration.
The success we have seen in TS continued in this quarter and we expect similar growth throughout 2015.
On a reported basis TS sales declined 23% reflecting both the friction materials divestiture and foreign currency headwinds.
So let's turn to ACS results on slide 7.
ACS sales were up 3% on a core organic basis in the first quarter excluding an approximate 6% headwind from foreign exchange.
Across the ACS portfolio we saw weakness in January as we mentioned at our Investor Day in March followed by steady core organic growth in February and March.
All of the ACS businesses are exiting the quarter with good momentum giving us confidence going into the second quarter.
ESS sales were up 3% on a core organic basis in the first quarter driven by continued strength in our scanning and mobility fire safety and security businesses.
Scanning and mobility delivered another quarter of double-digit core organic sales growth following the double-digit increase for the fourth quarter and full year of 2014.
The business continues to perform well driven by volume from recent program wins such as the US Postal Service program that Dave mentioned.
In addition we continue to realize integration benefits from Intermec in the combination of the two businesses.
As for the rest of ESS growth continues to be driven by new product introductions and further penetration in high growth regions.
In particular China and India each were up close to 15% in the first quarter with strength across most of the ESS portfolio and we expect this to continue into the second quarter.
Building solutions and distribution sales were up 3% on a core organic basis in the first quarter with continued strength in America's fire and security distribution businesses and growth in building solutions.
Within building solutions we continue to see good growth in our higher margin service business and as was the case with ESS sales in BSD improved in February March following a slow start in January.
ACS margins expanded 180 basis points in the quarter to 15.8%.
The business continues to benefit from good conversion on higher volumes and significant productivity improvements net of inflation.
While the business has been able to control costs and optimize internal processes our investments for growth particularly in new product development and in high growth regions continue as we have highlighted previously.
In addition we continue to realize incremental synergy benefits from the combination of Intermec with scanning mobility.
We expect the margin expansion to continue particularly as the team builds on a connected ACS initiative which Alex talked about at our Investor Day in March.
I'm now on slide 8 and before I review the PMT results I'd like to provide an update on our oil and gas related businesses similar to what we shared in January.
Our upstream portfolio which resides entirely in our process solutions business comprises controls solutions and remote operations for deepwater offshore facilities.
As we've said this upstream exploration and production part of the value chain is a small portion of PMT and roughly 1% of Honeywell's sales.
And here despite a significant scale back in future capital spending plans by international oil companies and national oil companies which have caused a good deal of volatility in our market our backlogs have held up and there have been no cancellations to date.
In fact we saw a double-digit increase in volume of large order project wins in our projects and automation solutions business in process solutions in the first quarter with approximately one third of that increase residing in our upstream segment.
But discretionary spend both CapEx and OpEx is being cut across the board in this segment and we felt the impact of these actions at HPS in particular.
We are seeing softness in our short cycle field instrumentation business tied to both project delay as well as reductions to maintenance repairs and operations budgets.
Our orders in the second quarter will be challenged as a result but we'll continue to leverage our strong cost productivity actions to offset any downturn in 2015.
Its also worth mentioning that 45% of HPS is not tied to oil and gas which further highlights our relatively low exposure to the volatility upstream.
Moving to midstream roughly a third of the UOP business so the gas processing piece and about a quarter of the HPS business which comprises gas metering and transfer safety and security and terminals is considered midstream.
So think of oil and gas recovery upgrading treating pipelines and storage.
We saw tremendous growth in our gas processing sales in the first quarter particularly in UOP Russell which was up double-digits on a core organic basis.
Our midstream business overall has been impacted by the steep reduction in the US gas and oil rig count and we did see one cancellation of approximately $35 million in our gas processing business in the US in this quarter.
Orders are expected to continue to be challenged across our midstream business including in HPS where customers are delaying spending decisions and cutting discretionary spend and also delaying conversion of orders and backlog.
However we also anticipate that international gas processing projects for modular equipment and additional service sales to US customers will help to mitigate the softness in the US in 2015 and 2016.
Finally our downstream segment primarily includes petrochemical and refining which comprises about two thirds of UOP and that's mostly process technologies equipment and catalysts and approximately 20% of HPS which is process controls field instruments services and optimization.
Here we're experiencing delays and reductions in countries that are net oil producers like Russia as refining and petrochemical project decisions are deferred.
A notable exception is the Middle East where we  we've seen new wins and an active pipeline of new bids particularly in the UAE and Saudi Arabia and we're encouraged by the expected growth in HPS and UOP in the region.
Also two thirds of the aforementioned double-digit increase in orders growth in the projects and automations solutions business and HPS is in this down stream refining sector.
As the infrastructure investments continue to ramp in the Middle East we anticipate continued positive growth in 2015 and in 2016.
In the oil importing countries mainly China and India the benefit of the lower cost oil imports is mostly being absorbed by the national government and is not currently being invested in energy projects.
However we do see continued momentum in the catalyst first load and reload activity for methanol to olefin and Oleflex licenses in China and a similar positive level of activity in India particularly in our short cycle businesses in HPS.
We're continuing to see existing projects progress and none have been abandoned.
However the initiation of new projects has been extremely slow.
Overall however we continue to believe that in the mid to long-term the impact further downstream will be neutral to in some cases positive despite the delays we have seen thus far.
Sales and parts of our resins and chemicals business continue to be negatively impacted by the market based pricing whereby selling prices are closely tied to the market price of raw materials most notably benzene which is highly correlated to the price of oil as we've discussed since December while lower raw material cost continue to be a headwind to the top line the pricing model protects profit dollars even on those lower sales.
We now expect this will approximate a $400 million headwind to our reported sales in 2015.
In ACS a small portion of our industrial safety businesses the portable gas detection and safety products businesses participate in oil and gas related end markets.
We have seen minor impacts due to the recent work force reductions mainly in the upstream segment.
While demand for our gas detection and safety products has slowed we continue to expect lower oil prices to eventually create demand side favorability across the remainder of the ACS portfolio.
In terms of operating expenses we are seeing favorable cost trends across the portfolio including in our freight utilities and other supply chain costs as well as in our other indirect spend.
We expect this will continue to be a nice tailwind for us throughout 2015 and continue to look for ways to drive further productivity and cost savings across the portfolio.
In terms of the second derivative impacts we highlighted in December that we anticipate that the emerging airline profitability from lower oil prices could drive further activity with that customer segment.
In addition the lower prices at the pump improvements in employment and overall positive consumer sentiment have driven greater demand for autos where we are benefiting from increased demand for turbocharger technologies.
The impact to our short cycle business on the whole thus far has been neutral but we expect an increase in demand across the portfolio as lower oil prices persist.
On balance the headwinds we are seeing in our oil and gas business will continue to present challenge in the near to mid term and we continue to plan conservatively to mitigate the impacts in this area.
We do expect to eventually see some positive impacts from lower oil prices which will benefit our short cycle businesses particularly in ACS as the benefit makes its way further downstream to consumers.
We are also encouraged by the benefit to our own cost structure which will continue to provide a nice tailwind in 2015 and 2016.
I am moving to slide 9 for PMT first quarter results.
PMT sales in the quarter of $2.3 billion were up 3% on a core organic basis and down 5% on a reported basis.
The reported decline was driven by foreign exchange headwinds and the impact of lower oil prices on resins and chemicals as we have spoken about before.
Starting with the UOP sales were up 9% on a core organic basis driven primarily by higher gas processing sales particularly at UOP Russell.
As a reminder UOP grew 9% on a core organic basis in the first quarter of 2014 as well.
So exceptional growth even against a difficult year-over-year comp.
Orders were roughly flat in the quarter with strong growth in the product technologies and equipment business offsetting declines in gas processing which are mostly timing related.
As you know we are in the midst of adding UOP capacity particularly on the catalyst side which will help the business better service its backlog which continues to hold firm.
In process solutions sales were below our expectations.
Core organic sales down 3% and reported sales down 11%.
Obviously foreign exchange headwinds impacted our reported sales.
Orders overall were slightly down in the quarter as we experienced some order delays particularly in March as we approach the quarter end.
While we're not seeing order cancellations in HPS some customers are delaying project startups and in some cases future capital spending decisions.
Still on balance our projects business had a strong orders quarter up strong double-digits primarily driven by the Middle East where we see infrastructure investments continuing.
Discretionary spend is under pressure which primarily impacted our orders and sales growth in our field products business.
Our service backlog is holding up well with low single digit sales growth a reflection of our comprehensive offerings to our strong install base.
Process solutions backlog increased high single digit year-over-year which gives us confidence that the sales growth rates will eventually improve.
Advanced material sales were up 2% on a core organic basis and decreased 12% reported again primarily driven by foreign exchange headwinds and the impact of lower oil prices on resin and chemicals.
In addition we had unplanned outages in our resins and chemicals plants that had a negative impact on production volumes and segment margin in the quarter.
The rest of the advanced material saw positive core organic growth in the quarter particularly in flooring products which again grew double-digit as demand continues for Solstice products continues to grow.
PMT margins were up 230 basis points to 21.5% which exceeded our guidance driven by commercial excellence significant productivity actions net of inflation and higher UOP and flooring products volumes as we've discussed.
This was partially offset by the resins and chemicals unplanned plant outages we highlighted and continued investments for growth across PMT.
So in summary despite less sales growth than expected the business continues to deliver on results.
Also PMT is aggressively pursuing cost reduction opportunities in anticipation of potential further top line pressure.
I'm now on slide 10 with a preview of the second quarter.
For total Honeywell we are expecting sales of $9.6 billion to $9.8 billion up 2% to 3% on a core organic basis but down 4% to 6% reported.
We think we're being prudent in our planning approach given the slow start for the top line we saw in the first quarter.
Segment margins are expected to be up approximately 130 to 150 basis points versus 2014.
We expect our segment margin rate to again benefit from the factors that drove the significant first quarter margin expansion especially operational excellence and execution.
We do anticipate higher engineering sales and marketing investments in the second quarter as well as a less favorable sales mix and lower margin rate benefit from the friction materials foreign currency and resins and chemicals raw materials pricing drivers I explained earlier.
Given these factors and our conservative planning the segment margin expansion may not be as robust as Q1 but will still be well into the triple digit range.
With that said second quarter EPS is expected to be in the range of $1.46 to $1.51 up 7% to 10% versus 2014 on a basis normalized for tax at 26.5% in both years.
Moving into businesses aerospace sales are expected to be up 1% to 2% on a core organic basis or down 5% to 7% on a reported basis reflecting the year-over-year absence of friction material sales as well as anticipated foreign currency headwinds in the quarter.
In commercial OE we expect core organic sales will be up low single digit driven primarily by continued healthy demand in mid to large cabin business aircraft where we have significant new content partially offset by the timing of ATR OE build rates.
In commercial after market we expect core organic sales to be up low to mid single digit with continued repair and overhaul and ATR spares growth partially offset by slower BGA spares growth.
Defense and space sales are expected to be approximately flat on a core organic basis driven by continued strengths in the international business offset by a decline in the US as we've highlighted.
In transportation systems sales are expected to be up mid single digits on a core organic basis but down significantly on a reported basis.
Similar to the first quarter the growth in TS on a core organic basis is primarily driven by new launches and strong light vehicle gas turbo volume globally.
As for aerospace margins we expect an increase of 140 to 160 basis points in the second quarter driven by commercial excellence significant productivity improvements across the portfolio and favorable impacts of the friction materials divestiture.
ACS sales are expected to be up 4% to 5% on a core organic basis or down 1% to 3% on a recorded basis with mid-single digit core organic growth in ESS and continued growth in BSD.
The difference between the reported and organic core growth rates reflects the foreign currency headwinds in the quarter.
The trends in the end markets where we primarily participate residential commercial and industrial continue to be consistent with what we highlighted in December.
We continue to benefit from new product introductions in high growth region penetration as we saw in China and India in the first quarter.
ACS margins are expected to be up 80 to 100 basis points driven by good conversion on higher volumes commercial excellence and continued productivity net of inflation while maintaining the investments for growth I spoke about earlier.
In PMT sales are expected to be down 1% to approximately flat on a core organic basis and down approximately 7% to 9% recorded driver by foreign currency headwinds and the continued impact of lower oil prices on resins and chemicals.
We're expecting UOP to be down mid single digit on a core organic basis primarily driven by difficult year-over-year comps in our catalyst business partially offset by continued growth in gas processing.
You'll remember we experienced double-digit sales growth in the catalyst business in the second quarter of 2014.
In HPS we're expecting core organic sales to be approximately flat.
We continue to see delays in the conversion of orders and backlog particularly in the large projects business offset by software and services growth in our large install base.
On the advanced material side we're expecting mid single digit growth on a core organic basis principally driven by continued strength in flooring products.
Overall PMT segment margins in the quarter are expected to be up 240 to 260 basis points versus 2014 driven by productivity net of inflation commercial excellence and the favorable margin rate impact of the market based pricing model in resins and chemicals.
The second quarter will be challenging for PMT however.
The second quarter will be challenging for PMT.
However the conservative cost actions we've taken give us confidence in our ability to deliver our forecast.
Let me move to slide 11 for an update on our full year guidance.
You can see revised sales and margin targets for 2015.
The reported sales growth is expected to be lower than the core organic growth principally due to foreign currency headwinds.
The impact of the friction materials divestiture and raw materials pricing in resins and chemicals.
Our end markets are generally holding up with commercial and industrial momentum largely offsetting the headwind in oil and gas and I'll get into more detail on this in a moment.
Our new sales guidance reflects the further strengthening of the US dollar since we provided our initial outlook back in December.
For example we're now playing for a euro exchange rate for approximately $1.10 for the remainder of the year and have similar revisions for other currencies and now expect an approximate $1.7 billion headwind for the top line from foreign currency for the full year.
To remind you our operating profits are protected from further US dollars strengthening by our hedging approach even though the top line is adversely impacted.
For example with the euro our operating profits are protected at a rate of about $1.24.
And as Dave indicated for 2016 we're taking a similar approach.
We put hedges in place to cover approximately 85% of our 2016 euro P&amp;L exposure at the planning rate of approximately $1.10.
On a core organic basis our sales growth for 2015 is now approximately 3%.
This reflects the slow start we had in the first quarter and the risks associated with order delays we've been able  we've seen to date primarily in aerospace and PMT.
In ACS there is some minor puts and takes among the businesses but overall the outlook for the rest of the year remains intact and we continue to expect good core organic growth particularly in our short cycle businesses.
We're raising our segment margin targets in all businesses due to favorable drivers previously discussed including commercial excellence HOS restructuring and a continued focus on managing our costs as well as the impact to the foreign currency hedges and the market based pricing model in resins and chemicals.
In addition as Dave mentioned we're raising the low end of our EPS guidance extension [ph] mark-to-market by $0.05 to $6.15 per share representing 8% to 11% growth versus 2014 and providing the framework for another year of strong earnings growth in what continues to be a challenging global economy.
This range continues to be based on a full year income tax rate assumption of 26.5% and share count held roughly flat to 2014 levels.
We continue to expect free cash flow in the range of $4.2 billion to $4.3 billion up 8% to 10% from 2014 with CapEx investments peaking this year at roughly two times depreciation.
At a more normalized rate of CapEx investment approximately 1.25 times depreciation we would expect free cash flow conversion to be approximately 100% and we expect to be at those levels again by 2017.
So overall still a very balanced outlook for the year.
Let me move on to slide 12.
With the first quarter in the books we thought it'd be helpful to provide an update on how we see things in our key end markets and how they are impacting our planning for the remainder of 2015.
Starting with aerospace the outlook on the commercial side is largely the same as we outlined in March.
As OE build rates and flight hours remain strong.
On the commercial OE side we still expect a benefit from build rate schedules and a ramp up in new platforms including Airbus A350 and ATR and the Bombardier Challenger 350 and Embraer Legacy 500 and BGA.
Flight hours for ATR are expected to grow approximately 4% in 2015 similar to 2014.
And on the business jet side we expect the flight hours for large cabin aircraft will continue to grow in 2015 up mid single digit reflecting the continued healthy demand in the cabin sized sector we are more represented.
In defense and space we're seeing strong international demand as defense budgets continue to grow.
This is supported by the 20% plus core organic growth we saw in our international business in the first quarter and a very strong backlog.
We expect the US portion of the business to stabilize consistent with the US DoD budgets despite the timing delays we encountered in the first quarter.
In the automotive market we're seeing the market improving as turbo adoption continues in the life vehicle gas segment globally and as light vehicle production picks up.
This should bode well for us going forward as we expect to outpace the industry in gasoline turbo wins.
Moving to ACS residential markets continue to grow at a steady pace as urbanization in high growth regions progresses.
We continue to accelerate our investments in the connected home space where we have a strong install base and market channel and where we expect to benefit from new product introductions in both ECC and security.
On the non-res side we continue to expect acceleration in commercial construction spending and our positive outlook for the full year remains intact despite a slower than anticipated start.
As I mentioned earlier we saw a strong growth in our short cycle businesses in fire and security and expect that positive end market trends will continue to drive growth in these businesses.
As for building solutions the strong backlog from our projects business and service bank continue to support an improvement for the remainder of 2015.
On the industrial side we continue to benefit from increasing safety standards across the globe as activity picks up in both the US and in our high growth regions.
So overall very similar to where we were in March and good momentum as we head into the second quarter.
We've touched a lot on PMT already but to summarize the impacts from oil and gas are becoming clearer and more pronounced than we initially anticipated.
However we continue to proactively address PMTs cost position and are confident in power managing our exposure to the sector.
In advanced materials we continue to see robust demand for our low global warming Solstice products supporting the significant investments we've made in this business heading into 2015 and 2016.
We once again saw double-digit core organic growth in flooring products in the quarter.
Let's now move to our updated full year segment guidance on page 13.
Let me explain the setup here the left-hand side of the slide represents the guidance as of our December outlook and an estimate of the core organic sales growth under those assumptions.
The 5% growth we show here on a core organic basis is on the same basis as the 4% organic growth we previously articulated.
We simply restated the 5% to reflect the adjustment for the resins and chemicals price impact.
The right half reflects our current guidance including the first quarter results and latest outlook by business on a core organic bass.
We won't get in all of details again but just want to highlight that our core organic growth expectations in aero and ACS are down slightly given the slow start and PMT has been adversely impacted as previously explained.
However we continue to expect good margin improvement across the businesses for the reasons I discussed earlier.
We continue to take a conservative approach to the rest of the year.
We're committed to our EPS outlook raising the low end while continuing to invest for the future in seed planting and additional restructuring.
This confidence is derived from the good visibility we have on new products and technologies our penetration of high growth regions our conservative cross planning and the deployment of our key process initiative is part of HOS goal.
Let's turn to slide 14 for a brief wrap up before I move on to Q&amp;A.
This was another quarter where the Honeywell business model and HOS enabled us to set and exceed challenging performance expectations.
The quarter started slow and not all the markets we participate in were giving us help but we picked up momentum and exited on a strong note with significant outperformance in both segment margin and EPS.
Our shareholders are benefit from a diverse portfolio with great technologies and long and short cycle exposure one that continues to derive significant benefits from comprehensive globalization and one that will further benefit from the significant fire power [ph] that we have on our balance sheet.
With a little more help from the economy we are well positioned to continue outperformance throughout 2015 all the while seeding and feeding our growth initiatives.
Like all of you we're also thinking about what's beyond 2015.
Each of our HOS Gold enterprises are hard at work on their five year strategic plans which Dave and his staff will dive into before our next earnings call.
And if you've already heard some of our early actions we've taken for 2016 including additional restructuring and hedging of our foreign currency exposures.
We look forward to sharing more over the course of 2015.
With that let's move on to the Q&amp;A segment.
Michael please open the line for Q&amp;A.
Certainly.
[Operator Instructions] We will go first to Scott Davis with Barclays.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Hey Scott.
Guys what happened in January I'm  is there any kind of general theme to why January started so weak for you? You know I wish there was.
Interestingly at least from the talking I did around the horn [ph] we weren't alone.
I mean this was kind of a phenomenon that some even saw in the banking community.
There was just something about January that caused everything to be a slowdown and I'd have to say I was a little nervous as we were in January and then things turned in February and turned bigger in March.
So I can't explain it.
It just happened.
And it was pervasive Scott across the you know almost every one of our business units Around the world.
Everywhere.
Yes that's amazing.
Okay.
Good.
And then I struggle sometimes I mean your margins are exceptional and continue to be on the right path.
But what does HOS really mean to margins? Can you quantify it at all? I remember when you went from nothing to bronze it was a pretty meaningful step up.
Is gold as meaning to step up when you come up from silver? Yes.
Well it is pretty meaningful I'd say being able to get there.
We don't have that many units that are actually there at gold yet.
That's one of the things that  that's why we think there's a lot more improvement left in the company.
It's tough to quantify exactly what the dollar amount is that  or the rate amount that comes from HOS but it's going to continue to grow.
Because as we've tried to show in the past it doesn't just kind of raise your overall level but it raises your improvement rate per year also So think of it is it's not just a first derivative improvement.
It's a second derivative improvement also.
So I'm actually quite encouraged about what this is going to continue to be able to do for us.
Yes.
And I would add that the way we're defining HOS Gold as we talked about at the Investor Day cuts across the entire business and enterprise whereas once it was focused on factories and the supply chain it now extends to engineering and product development commercial excellence dealing with our customers and the like.
So all of those things were contributors as I tried to articulate when I explained that 140 basis point expansion in the first quarter.
And last just quickly on M&amp;A is it  are the gating factors really price or is it availability of assets or both? I'd say its more price now than anything else.
Prices are just high.
This is  we're going to continue to be disciplined and be smart about this.
But prices are high right now and you haven't heard me say that much in the past but this time they are.
Yes.
Well we hear that from everyone.
So great thanks guys.
I'll pass it on.
All right.
See you Scott.
We will go next to Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Hey Jeff.
Hey.
Can we just get a little more color on UOP? I may have missed it Tom when you went through all that detail.
But what were UOP orders actually like in the quarter and you know if we think about the capacity that you have coming on is it still you know fully sold and you know and how firm is the backlog in that business? Yes.
Well the orders were roughly flat in the quarter for UOP but it was  it was kind of a tale of two cities.
The gas businesses are being impacted by delays.
We think there was a significant amount of orders that were pushed out into the second quarter and third quarter on the international side.
So we're expecting those to come back in.
But on the other hand the technologies and equipment business performance technologies and equipment had an outstanding orders growth strong strong double-digit growth.
Catalysts were essentially flat to the year.
So overall those were the contributors to UOP.
Good activity and the backlog as well.
You know down a little bit but overall in pretty good shape.
And on the expansion? And to answer the question on expansion that demand is still there.
I was actually at the Jon Hegan [ph] factory in the first quarter and it will be  it is starting to run at full capacity.
So really excited about those investments that we're making.
And the capital spending plans are all on schedule and we're going to hit the targets and get the market benefit.
On the expansions Jeff I'm more worried about making sure we hit the startup date than anything else because the demand for the product's there.
Okay.
Great.
And just on the hedging is the hedge only on the euro or you're hedging other currencies where you can at that rate at that kind of 85% coverage? Yes it's not just the euro Scott  Jeff.
It's all the currencies where we have exposure.
We take a comprehensive look at our long  the currencies where we're long and the currencies where we're short.
The currencies where we manufacture versus the currencies where we only sell.
It's a comprehensive model but in the end we end up doing comprehensive hedging in a number of different currencies euro GBP Australian dollar others.
And we get some natural benefit from currencies that we are currently locking in.
So unbalanced it's not just the euro.
And then given kind of the peculiarity of January I know it's early but you know any thoughts on how April is starting? I mean there's just so many cross currents out there.
Does this pick up in February and March that you saw? Is it continuing into the early part of the second quarter here? Well it's a little tough to tell at this point but we think it's going to be  I don't know that it's going to be as strong as it was in February and March but it's certainly going to be a lot better than January.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
You're welcome.
And we'll go next to Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
Hey good morning.
Hey Steve.
On the aerospace side you mentioned some funding issues I guess from some customers.
I know the GE talked about some supply chain dynamics going on out there I guess PCP there have been some issues around I guess seeding with the 787.
What is you know maybe the flavor of what's going on in the commercial aerospace side? If you could put a little more  some more details around that? Happy to clarify that comment Steve.
It was more to deal with the commercial side and customers you know emerging market regions particularly in Russia with the you know the impact that the global economy has had and the sanctions it had.
Our customers some of our customers are experiencing some funding delays.
And so we've held up a shipment until we can get those clarified.
We're 100% confident it's going to resolve itself and it already is resolving itself in the second quarter.
So it's more a matter of risk management than any kind of demand issue.
Does that I mean I guess Dave at a higher level is that a comment on what's going on out there financially in emerging markets or is that an aerospace specific type of thing? I would say this is more aero specific in certain emerging market countries.
Okay.
So not something we should kind of you know from a  just a liquidity perspective out there globally there's a lot going on with currencies and the central banks you know shooting money all the over the place.
So I guess that we shouldn't be kind of concerned about this more globally for the economy? No absolutely not.
Okay.
It is definitely concentrated in Russia Steve and Okay.
You know the size of Russia for us.
Okay.
Got it.
And then just on UOP what is the  what's kind of the size of the international opportunity at Thomas Russell again? I know you guys have talked about I don't know something like bidding on 10 projects and you guys have given some revenue numbers.
I am just  that business is clearly going to have a little bit of a rough patch here.
It's only $500 million in revenues.
But what is kind of the size of international and how  can you put that in a context as far as what the opportunity there is to kind of fill the hole in 2016? Yes I'd say it's a little tougher to say how big it could be because we're not quite sure ourselves.
It's a lot bigger even than we anticipated when we first did the acquisition and we continue to be pretty encouraged by the stuff we're finding.
So what we're seeing is a much greater strength on the international side and of course less on the US side.
So we expect that the international piece of this is going to be a really good positive for that business.
Can it be I can't put a number on it right now.
Right.
But I guess can it be somewhat material to that $500 million business in 2016? Oh yes.
Yes definitely.
Okay.
Okay.
So you can see some of that comes through to offset whatever we may see in Russell for 2016.
And then one last question you said $0.10 of exposure to this kind of euro hedging dynamic in 2016 I guess at the Investor Day.
I'm just doing the rough math on what you said I guess is it  is it now about $0.15 or is it still around you know what's the actual year-over-year headwind number for 2016 as we stand today? Yes Steve I would compare the $1.24 that I mentioned that were hedged after the euro to next year's rate which will be $1.10.
And Okay.
You can kind of apply that to our business.
I think the range we gave still is intact.
Okay.
So it's around $0.10 still no real change there? Yes.
It's reasonable to think about it as like a penny for a penny.
So it's reasonable to think about it that way and I think it's important to think about it in the context of 6 bucks.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
Okay thanks.
Thanks Steve.
We will go next to Steven Winoker with Bernstein.
Thanks.
And good morning guys.
Hey Steve.
Hey Dave you mentioned before in answering the earlier question that prices were high and M&amp;A and the current environment is a gating factor right now.
I know you're a patient guy sometimes but how long and  well not that many topics right but how long and how  what happens on your capital deployment strategy? Do you start to consider other means of returning capital or do you just say look you know over a long enough cycle it still makes sense to wait.
What are you thinking? I would say first of all you characterized me correctly.
I'm generally more impatient about things except when it comes to spending money in which case I want to make sure that we're smart.
The New Hampshire chief in me still would bug me to overpay with something.
I have to agree with both of those.
The  at the end of the day though we're still pretty much going to stick with what we talked about in that $1 billion to $2 billion net cash position at which point we'll start doing more on the repurchase side.
And I think that's still a reasonable and a smart place to be overall.
So it preserves fire power for those times when we can be opportunistic but also says we're not going to let this get excessive.
Okay.
All right.
And then the acceleration that this has baked in sequentially for ACS organically you know market dynamics that you're seeing in non-res specifically could you maybe just also give a little more color are you still seeing that strengthening are you seeing kind of oil and gas regional slow down impacting any of those projects the construction ones not the oil and gas side of it what are you seeing in that market? The way I'd describe it is that it's stronger than our overall organic growth rate not as strong as we thought it would be But it looks like a lot of that was I think a lot of that might have been weather impacted and we're anticipating that it continues to strengthen during the course of the year Tom anything you want to Yes.
If you look at the products that serve that or the businesses that serve that sector the non-res sector Steve they were between 3% and 4% organic growth for the quarter.
So I think it's very much in line with what we think the markets are doing.
Okay.
All right.
I'm sure you have a lot of people waiting so I'll pass it on.
Thanks.
All right.
Thanks Steve.
We will go next to Joe Ritchie of Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Hey Joe.
So interesting on the organic growth you're one of the few companies we've heard of so far where trends actually got better as the quarter progressed.
I mean you actually had some companies talk about March not happening.
And so I'm curious Dave from your perspective what kind of impact do you think that oil and gas and the currency moved through here in the US are having on just industrial CapEx spend broadly and how that impacts your business? I would say on the CapEx side I mean the only real effect that we're seeing is on the oil and gas piece of this.
I'd be hard pressed to point to something elsewhere I would  where I could say that currency was having an impact on those decisions.
I don't know Tom if anything comes to your mind or anything else.
No.
So those  that's the only one that I could see that's more oil price impacted than it is currency.
It seems like there's more of a direct impact to your business but nothing indirect that you guys are hearing from your customers today? Yes I would say in general when it comes to FX the only effect we're really seeing is on the translation side and as you know we hedged the income number there and so it shows up on the sales side.
But preserves the income side which is one of the reasons our margins look good and jeez I think we should be getting kudos for being smart on how we hedged this year and next.
I'll give you kudos it's by far the number one question I got from investors heading into the quarter.
So I think taking  tabling some of that risk was definitely a smart and prudent move on your part.
Maybe one other question because you did mention the margins.
I mean in your core operations the margin expansion this quarter really good despite slower organic growth than expected.
You've got this like five year target at the high end of 75 basis points and you know assuming organic growth continues to improve with the capacity investments that you've made it would seem to me that that 75 basis points should be a lot steeper.
So maybe some comments around the conservatism around the high end of that guidance range over your five year planning period.
Well I would love to see that myself and as you know margin rates are a combination of a lot of things so we're going to continue to drive it.
I'm very committed to that five year plan and understand what I promised I'd deliver there.
So there's a whole combination of thing that go into it and yes I'd love to see that margin rate improvement continue and I don't see any reason why we don't continue with a triple digit increase this year.
All right helpful guys.
Thank you.
See you Joe.
We will go next to Nigel Coe of Morgan Stanley.
Yes thanks.
Good morning guys.
Hey Nigel.
Yes so I just wanted  just come back to this January issue again.
And if I just do the rough math and maybe someone can help me out here.
It looks like February March trended up 5% and I'm sure that benefited a little bit of snap back from January first of all is that correct.
And secondly given all the macro volatility do you think we're in a  sort of a more volatile month-by-month pattern from here on Dave? I don't know that it's going to be more volatile month-by-month.
I would say though I really do believe that lower oil prices are going to play through bigger in the macro economy than what we've seen so far especially in the US.
And this is the  kind of the longest the consumer is gone historically with not spending kind of newfound riches whether it's through oil price or tax refunds.
So I think we're going to start to see the benefit of that sooner rather than later.
I don't think it waits until next year.
That being said I don't want to count on it either because if I'm wrong that's not a  not a good place to be.
So I don't think that kind of what we saw January February and March continues and then we'll see something that's a little more stable going forward.
And on your first  your first question Nigel yes you got it pretty much right in terms of the 7 March numbers.
Okay.
And then just a follow up question on the aerospace.
You call that tough China comps you call out Russia but outside of those regions would you say especially on the ATR side that you know airlines  airline behavior was consistent with plan and did provisioning have any impact on either the quarter or the year-over-year comp? Provisioning didn't have that much impact on us that I'm aware of.
And yes airlines have been pretty consistent.
And I actually think aerospace improves during the course of the year because of the timing on some of the shipments that didn't happen in the first quarter.
Yes I think also the  when you look at it by region it's quite interesting Nigel and we had mid-single digit growth in spares ATR spares in the US but because of those China issues we were definitely weighed down.
Okay.
And then just finally you announced a big order in Egypt's  Egyptian refinery $1.4 million when does that start hitting the backlog? I'm not sure.
I don't know if that's in the backlog number yet.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
You're welcome.
We will go next to Howard Rubel of Jefferies.
Good morning gentlemen.
Thank you.
Hey Howard.
Dave thank you.
Dave there's been a lot of stimulus efforts in Europe to help the economy.
We can see a little bit of it in air traffic.
What about on the ground in some of the ACS businesses or elsewhere? I'd say ACS we're starting to see some improvement.
I don't think it hit as fast as what you'd see on the aerospace side.
But yes we're expecting that that's going to play through especially as that economy gets closer to 2%.
Is there any market you can see better.
I mean is it still just Germany or you see France improving or Spain or anything of that order? I would just kind of  I'd say leave it as a general comment.
The north is still stronger overall and I think it's going to take a little bit of say a few more months before say some of the southern economies really start to feel it.
But it sounds to me though like you're being very conservative and it's still a wait and see.
You're not adding people or anything like that at the moment? I could say I am definitely not adding people in Europe.
I get it.
Howard just to put a little color on that.
The  I mean as we've continually said over the last two or three years Europe and Africa for us have been relatively1% 0 minus 1% consistently quarter-over-quarter over quarter.
This year was similar to your point aero was stronger.
We also saw good performance in the turbo business good volume growth as that  the gas penetration continues to grow.
So but you know it nets out to similar to the environments that we've seen in the past for Europe.
I appreciate that.
I'm just you don't want them to spend all that money and not get anything for it and you have a lot of early cycle businesses and that's why I asked.
I think it does  it will show up Howard.
I don't think though this turns Europe around.
I do believe that we'll see some short lived impact from all of this.
But at the end of the day they still need to address a lot of their social issues.
And they are just  and my fear is that some of this is going to cause them to delay taking the actions they need to to become more competitive as a region.
And then just as a follow up in a slightly different vein you have talked a lot about new products.
Could you elaborate a little bit on what we might see in a fashion later in the year in terms of  it sounds like a lot of things are going to happen in ACS either in connected home.
Is there  you know as you're sort of previewing ideas to the dealers or otherwise when might we expect some rollout and impact from this? Yes as is typical with us and I know you hear me talk about this diversity of opportunity a lot and that there's never  while there's never any one big thing that's going to hurt us which I think is a good way to run the place.
There's never any one big thing that's going to make all the difference for us either rather it's going to be a series of products in a number of areas that are going to make the difference here.
And I'm actually pretty encouraged in some of the gross margin rate improvement you saw was attributable to just being able to introduce new products at better margin rates because it adds more value.
And I think you're going to  I feel pretty confident you're going to continue to see more of that.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome Howard.
And we will take our final question from Andrew Obin of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thanks a lot for fitting me in guys.
Hey Andy.
So my question is just a follow up on Joe Ritchie's question.
Obviously the margins were fantastic in the quarter.
But if I look at your core growth outlook you know the 18 target is 4% to 6% top line and last year we were below this target and the idea was that we were going to accelerate into 2015.
And as I look at your organic growth target for 2015 it seems we're actually decelerating versus 2014 2 to 3 versus 3%.
So does that mean the plan now is more about margins as opposed to organic growth? Has the balance shifted between the two given what we are seeing now for two years? I would say 2018 is still three years away and things have a way of changing and of course we're trying to make sure that we end up in that range that combination of sales growth and margin rate growth.
And right now last year and this year organic sales were not as good as what we'd hoped for.
Largely because global GDPs didn't even achieve the kind of conservative numbers that we thought we had in there.
So I'd say yes we're going to make sure that we continue to work on both.
If GDP growth isn't there to support that kind of organic sales growth then you'll probably see even more margin rate improvement and vice versa.
If global GDP does start to take off and sales start to improve well you'll see more attributable to the sales side.
So we're still committed to those five year targets and we're going to continue to work both of those variables.
And if I could add Thats a great And if I could add the  as we talked about the Investor Day we are experiencing really good win rates and we are expecting inflection points at aerospace and in PMT given the investments that we've made and the new platforms we're on.
So I think that's going to be a nice catalyst and we still obviously  you know obviously have our eye on organic growth as a big part of it.
That's a good point Tom and we've talked about that on Investor Day with those inflection points.
Those definitely happening.
And if I can just squeeze in one technical question in terms of your change in your methodology for PMT for input costs what kind of impact did it have in terms of your organic growth number.
Did it have a negative impact for the annual guidance? I just didn't quite understand that? Its about half a point I'd guess.
Its about a half a point for the quarter yes.
The reason that we excluded Andy is just that it has no impact on operating income and you want to use that as a proxy for volume and what's occurring out there in your actual shipments.
So the shipments are actually fine.
Operating income is just fine and in fact it increases our margin rates because of it.
So that's why we excluded it because it just didn't seem to make sense.
No terrific.
Really appreciate the comment.
Thanks a lot.
All right.
Andy thanks.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's question and answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference back to Dave Cote for closing comments.
In a difficult first quarter macro environment we were actually quite pleased with our operating performance and I hope you were too.
Our initiatives like HOS Gold HUE and software are working and our business model continues to deliver.
Raising our guidance for the year is a nice display of our confidence in our ability to deliver this year next year and beyond.
The diversity of opportunity resident in our portfolio really does make a difference in our ability to outperform.
Our opportunities far outweigh any risks we deal with and we're actually pretty excited about where we're going.
So thanks for listening.
Bye-bye.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's teleconference.
Please disconnect your disconnect your lines at this time.
And have a wonderful day.
Please stand by.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to Honeywells Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be opened for your questions following the presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for todays conference Mark Macaluso Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Lisa.
Good morning and welcome to Honeywells second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
With me here today are our Chairman and CEO Dave Cote; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Tom Szlosek.
This call and webcast including any non-GAAP reconciliations are available on our website at www.honeywell.com/investor.
Note that elements of this presentation contain forward-looking statements that are based on our best view of the world and of our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change and we ask that you interpret them in that light.
We identify the principle risks and uncertainties that affect our performance in our Form 10-K and other SEC filings.
This morning we will review our financial results for the second quarter and share with you our guidance for the third quarter and full year of 2015.
Finally as always well leave time for your questions at the end.
With that Ill turn the call over to Chairman and CEO Dave Cote.
Good morning everyone.
As youve seen Honeywell delivered another quarter of double-digit earnings growth capping off a strong first-half to the year and positioning us well to achieve our fully year outlook as we head into the back-half.
Reported earnings per share of $1.51 increased 10% normalized for tax coming in at the high end of our guidance range for the quarter.
Sales of $9.8 billion were up 3% on a core organic basis.
We saw organic growth accelerate in both the short- and long-cycle businesses within Aerospace continued growth in our commercial and industrial businesses within ACS and higher volume across our Advanced Materials portfolio particularly in Fluorine Products.
Each of our business segments achieved the sales estimates we provided in April and we expect that the sales acceleration we enjoyed this quarter will continue into the second-half of the year.
The absence of friction materials strengthening of the U.S.
dollar and raw material pricings in Resins &amp; Chemicals drove the difference between reported and core organic sales growth.
Segment margin expanded 170 basis points to 18.4% in the second quarter and similar to last quarter large portion of the margin expansion came from improving gross margins.
Strong execution across portfolio drove margin expansion in each of our three segments at or above the targets we communicated in April.
Our Enablers and key process initiatives continue to deliver growth and productivity benefits and our previously funded restructuring actions provide the runway we need to continue improving our operations and cost base.
Were keeping that pipeline full which is critical to supporting our continued margin expansion into next year and beyond.
We proactively funded about $39 million of new restructuring in the quarter building on a healthy pipeline of new projects.
While managing cost is critical were also seed planting and that is investing in capacity expansion new products and technologies and resources in high-growth regions to drive future growth.
We also continue to benefit from the strategic portfolio decisions weve made in the past and were well-positioned and aligned to favorable macro trends with significant runway to grow.
There continues to be a lot of exciting activity across the portfolio driving our strong results so I cant help but highlight a couple.
In June our Process Solutions business hosted their 40th annual Honeywell Users Group or HUG America symposium.
A forum that provides users of our process control and industrial automation systems an opportunity to exchange technical information and provides feedback on their equipment service needs.
The sentiment was decidedly positive and the turnout of over 1 200 channel partners end users and Honeywell sponsors from over 300 different companies was our largest ever.
Customer interest in Process Solutions that drive increased safety reliability and greater efficiency was noticeably higher than prior years.
In addition Process Solutions announced a partnership with Intel Security to help bolster protection of critical industrial infrastructure and data combining the latest advances in cybersecurity technology with Honeywells unique industrial process domain knowledge another example of our smart investments and commitment to growing our software capabilities which we see as a key differentiator.
In Aerospace we announced last month an agreement to supply our advanced Primus Epic cockpit technologies to Dassaults newly unveiled Falcon 5X.
The new plane combines the latest features for safety and performance including smartview synthetic vision next generation flight management system interview weather radar and smart traffic collision avoidance while achieving the lowest fuel consumption in this category.
Our Aerospace team in Dassault developed the next generation cockpit with the future in mind giving pilots and operators advanced communication vision and awareness features that simplify their jobs.
And in PMT our Fluorine Products [Technical Difficulty] additional $600 million in orders with key OEMs for our Solstice low-global warming suite of products bringing lifetime value of signed agreements to approximately $3.2 billion.
We also have an additional $200 million in agreements currently under negotiation which we anticipate finalizing by the end of the year.
Our Solstice product has global warming potential less than CO2 making it a terrific choice for products and for companies seeking to reduce their carbon footprint.
EPA phase-out rules restricting the use of high-global warming hydrofluorocarbons or HFCs in a variety of applications including refrigerant aerosol and foam insulation blowing agents coupled with approvals for the use of two additional Honeywell Solstice refrigerants as replacements for high-global warming HFCs continue to show that we are invested in the right place.
The demand and adoption of Solstice products continues to be a great story for Honeywell.
As we look ahead were not counting on a significant uptick in the current macroenvironment.
But we are confident in our ability to deliver continued sales growth and to leverage that growth drive further margin expansion.
As a result of our strong first-half performance we are again raising the low-end of our full-year 2015 earnings guidance range by a $0.05 to a new range of $6.05 to $6.15 up 9% to a 11% versus last year.
We have a fantastic portfolio and well continue investing in high-growth regions high ROI CapEx and new products and technologies while maintaining our cost discipline and ensuring we deliver the savings from restructuring projects funded over the past few years.
Were in the midst now of our strategic planning reviews of each of the three segments and were excited about each businesss innovation pipeline and growth opportunities.
Over the next planning period you can expect us to build on our track record of outperformance through the consistent execution you come to expect from Honeywell.
We continue to enhance our focus on each of the 74 HOS Gold Enterprises which we believe will make us more entrepreneurial and nimble versus our competitors by identifying breakthrough strategies and moves into smart new areas and adjacencies.
I look forward to sharing more with you of course as the year unfolds.
So with that Ill turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Dave and good morning.
Im on Slide 4 which shows the second quarter results.
Sales of $9.8 billion were up 3% on a core organic basis each of our segments met or exceeded the top line guidance we provided in April led by our Commercial Aero  the commercial and industrial businesses within ACS and Advanced Materials.
And Ill talk about each of these more on the business slides.
Were encouraged by the acceleration from Q1 and the momentum we have exiting the second quarter bodes well for the second half.
As Dave mentioned the Friction Materials divestiture foreign currency and the raw materials pricing in Resins &amp; Chemicals all resulted in the reported sales decline this quarter.
Segment margin expanded 170 basis points to 18.4% thats 20 basis points above the high-end of our guidance.
Each segment is contributing to the impressive profit growth and margin expansion this quarter and good volume and strong operations are playing a big part.
On the volume side our continued investments for growth in sales marketing and new product development drove higher volumes in the quarter.
On the operating side we continue to drive improvement in our gross margin rates and continued moderation of our G&amp;A rates through HOS Gold deployment and our focus on commercial excellence new product development functional transformation and strong cost controls.
Items below segment profit were favorable on the year-over-year basis as we had anticipated.
Higher pension income was largely offset by additional restructuring.
New restructuring projects funded this quarter were approximately $39 million building on our over $300 million plus pipeline as of the end of Q2 which positions us well for continued margin expansion throughout our five-year plan.
We delivered the high-end of our EPS guidance range with earnings per share of $1.51 up 10% normalized to our expected full year tax rate of 26.5% in both periods once again achieving double-digit earnings growth this quarter.
Finally free cash flow $1.2 billion 5% higher than 2014.
Free cash flow conversion was 98% and we expect to be in a net cash position of between $1 billion and $2 billion by the end of the year there is no significant M&amp;A activity.
Overall we continue to generate strong results in a relatively slow growth environment.
Lets turn to Slide 5.
Our segment margin rate expansion was again very robust this quarter as you can see a majority of the improvement is coming from our operating initiatives.
The benefits of HOS Gold are paying off and were seeing that in every segments gross margin rate.
We have attractive products with differentiated technologies and a software focus.
Our factories and supply chain are well run and our back-office continues to get more and more efficient.
In addition new product introductions and further penetration in high growth regions particularly at ACS where we grew close to 10% in China and greater than 15% in India during the quarter are also big part of the story.
The previously funded restructuring as well as new restructuring actions enable us to continue to improve our overall cost position.
Also our segment margin rate was positively impacted by the Friction Materials divestiture our foreign currency hedging approach and the Resins &amp; Chemicals pricing model collectively to the tune of approximately 60 basis points.
We sold Friction Materials in July of 2014 so we will lap this benefit in the second-half of 2015 but this is a permanent improvement to our margin rate from exiting a business that did not meet our great positions in good industries criteria.
On foreign currency our hedging strategy as you know is to protect our operating results even as sales do fluctuate with changes in currency another solid quarter of margin improvement driven by our operating system and key process initiatives.
Moving to Slide 6 in the Aerospace results sales up in the second quarter 3% on a core organic basis above the high-end of our guidance range driven by good volume growth and execution.
Commercial OE was up 6% on a core organic basis driven by double-digit improvement in Business and General Aviation engine shipments.
Engine demand continues to be robust and we expect to see continued Commercial OE growth in the second-half particularly in BGA.
Air Transport was flat a reflection of the pluses and minuses in our customer build schedules for the quarter while on the Regional side we saw lower sales volume overall.
Importantly our installed base continues to grow in both ATR and BGA which is a good sign for our future aftermarket business.
And to that point Commercial Aftermarket saw a nice improvement from the first quarter.
Sales were up 3% on a core organic basis driven by continued strong growth in repair and overhaul activities and ATR spares sales partially offset by lower BGA RMUs or Retrofit Modifications and Upgrades in many cases software based.
RMU sales growth can be lumpy based on the timing of new product rollouts and as you recall 2014 was an extremely strong year for RMU sales.
And looking forward were excited about our new product pipeline in this area.
Overall we saw a good growth in the aftermarket and anticipate further improvement in the third quarter and through the second-half of the year.
Defense &amp; Space sales were up 1% on a core organic basis driven by near double-digit growth in our international defense business.
Here we continue to see strong demand in the aftermarket and for our training propulsion engines and missile navigation products in South Korea and other high growth regions including Turkey.
Well in the U.S.
our sales were slightly down.
Finally Transportation Systems sales increased 5% on a core organic basis due to new platform launches strong volume growth in light vehicle gas applications globally and growth in diesel applications particularly in North America.
This was partially offset by lower commercial vehicle volumes.
On reported basis TS sales declined 25% reflecting the Friction Materials divestiture and foreign currency headwinds.
On segment margin the favorable impacts of the Friction Materials divestiture and our foreign currency hedges were drivers of the 140 basis points expansion in Aerospace along with commercial excellence and productivity net of inflation partially offset by the margin impact of higher OE shipments.
TS was a major contributor to the margin enhancement in Aerospace this quarter.
Not coincidentally thats a business where we see the greatest advancements in our HOS Silver certifications in our plants.
Lets turn to the ACS results on Slide 7.
ACS sales were up 4% on a core organic basis in the second quarter continuing the positive core organic growth trends we saw in the first quarter.
High growth regions continue to stand out in ACS and we have good momentum heading into Q3 based on recent order trends.
The margin expansion was robust and we once again exceeded the high-end of our margin guidance range.
ESS the products business sales were up 5% on a core organic basis in the second quarter driven by strong performance in our Scanning &amp; Mobility Fire Safety and Security businesses.
Scanning &amp; Mobility achieved its third straight quarter of double-digit core organic sales growth driven by volume from recent wins most notably the U.S.
Postal Service agreement and new product introductions in China where we continue to build on our Easter-East [ph] pipeline to support future growth.
We anticipate similar volume growth in the third quarter and will discuss in more detail shortly.
The rest of ESS also continues to benefit from new product introductions and further penetration in high-growth regions.
From a regional perspective China was up high single-digit while in India sales were up over 15% with broad-based strength across the ESS portfolio.
Building Solutions &amp; Distribution sales were up 3% on a core organic basis in the second quarter with continued strength in the Americas Fire and Security Distribution business.
We saw continued organic growth in our project backlog and service bank this quarter driven primarily by the Asia-Pacific region which will help support a modest acceleration in the back-half of the year.
ACS margins expanded to 120 basis points  by 120 basis points to 16% in the quarter.
The business continues to benefit from good conversion on higher volume and significant productivity improvements net of inflation.
We also continued our investments for growth particularly in new product development and in high-growth regions.
Our efforts to drive the more connected ACS which Alex spoke about at our March Investor Day provide a runway for accelerating growth and continued margin expansion as we drive incremental synergies among our businesses through supplier rationalization footprint consolidation and back-office improvement.
So in total another strong quarter of sales growth and margin expansion in ACS and continued outperformance in their key high-growth regions.
Im now on Slide 8 to discuss PMT results.
PMT sales in the quarter $2.4 billion down 1% on a core organic basis consistent with the guidance we presented last quarter.
And we exceeded the high-end of our segment margin guidance by 70 basis points driven by strong execution and productivity action.
Starting with UOP sales were down 8% on a core organic basis due to declines in our Gas Processing and Equipment and Engineering businesses and the timing of catalyst shipments which we had previewed.
Orders were down in the second quarter throughout the business which is adversely impacting backlogs.
However activity in our Gas Processing business both domestic and international is encouraging and we expect orders in that business to accelerate in the third quarter which along with the timing associated with catalyst reloads lots of some of the softness we are seeing in UOP.
In Process Solutions our portfolio is broader and more diverse than our competitors.
We have a unique combination of automation technology field instrumentation products and aftermarket offerings in the form of contracted and spot service software and consultative solutions that our competitors do not have.
So while our short cycle field instrumentation business faces headwinds like many others in the industry we are seeing sales growth in our high-margin software and service businesses.
Customers are looking to our optimization solutions for productivity enhancements to their current asset base.
So overall HPS core organic sales were down 4% and our orders were down only 2% in the quarter.
Our large projects business had strong orders in the quarter particularly in the Middle East where we see infrastructure investments continuing.
The HPS backlog is solid and increased over 15% organically which gives us confidence in our growth projection.
Advanced Materials sales were up 8% on a core organic basis the growth was broad-based across the entire portfolio.
Fluorine Products grew double-digit for the fourth straight quarter as demand for Solstice low-global warming products continue to escalate.
As Dave mentioned we presently have roughly $3.2 billion of signed agreements and another $200 million under negotiation.
To-date in 2015 alone we signed over $900 million in new orders.
In addition sales in both Resins &amp; Chemicals and Specialty Products grew on a core organic basis on higher volumes as new product introduction here continue to drive results.
On segment margin the PMT leadership team got out ahead of the market pressures to ensure we deliver the 2015 commitments.
Q2 segment margins exceeded our guidance and were up 330 basis points to 21.3%.
This was driven by a significant productivity action net of inflation commercial excellence and the impact of raw materials pricing in Resins &amp; Chemicals partially offset by continued investments for growth.
PMT continues to aggressively pursue further cost reduction opportunities which should help sustain the strong margin expansion weve seen in the first-half of 2015.
Im now on Slide 9 with a preview of the third quarter.
Were expecting total Honeywell sales of $9.7 billion to $9.9 billion which would be up 3% to 4% on a core organic basis.
Segment margins are expected to be up again approximately 120 basis points to 140 basis points and we expect our margin rates to benefit from operational excellence and good execution similar to the first-half margin expansion.
EPS is expected to be in the range of $1.51 to $1.56 which is up 6% to 9% normalized for tax at 26.5% in both years.
Aerospace sales are expected be up 3% to 4% on a core organic basis.
In Commercial OE we expect that core organic sales will be up mid single-digit driven primarily by continued healthy engine demand in the mid-to-large cabin business aircraft.
In commercial aftermarket we expect core organic sales to be up low-to-mid single-digit with continued repair and overhaul and ATR spares growth partially offset by modestly lower BGA spares sales.
Defense &amp; Space sales are expected to be up low single-digit on a core organic basis driven by continued strength in the international business where we anticipate double-digit growth offset by a slight decline in the U.S.
Transportation Systems sales are expected to be up low to mid single-digit on a core organic basis driven by both light-vehicle gas and diesel turbo volumes.
We expect Aerospace segment margins to increase 80 basis points to a 100 basis points in the quarter driven by commercial excellence further productivity improvements and the favorable impacts of the Friction Materials divestiture which will realize through July.
ACS sales are expected to be up 4% to 5% on a core organic basis with mid single-digit core organic growth in ESS and low single-digit core organic growth in BSD.
We expected growth in ESS will be driven by our scanning mobility fire safety and security businesses along with the benefits from new product introductions and high-growth region penetration.
ACS margins are expected to be up 50 basis points to 70 basis points driven primarily by good conversion on higher volumes and continued productivity net of inflation.
We will continue ramping up investments in new product development in adding feet on the street in high-growth region.
PMT sales are expected to be flat to up 1% on a core organic basis.
Were expecting UOP to be down mid to high single-digit on a core organic basis primarily due to licensing and equipment declines and difficult year-over-year comps in our catalyst business.
But partially offset by modest growth in the gas processing business.
In HPS were expecting core organic sales to be slightly better than the second quarter as growth continues in our higher margin software and service businesses.
And we see a modest uptick in our process technology business driven by a conversion of large projects in the backlog.
HPS continues to be a strong contributor to the margin rate improvement in PMT driven by sales growth in our higher margin software and service businesses and productivity initiatives.
In Advanced Materials were expecting high single-digit core organic growth principally driven by continued strength in Fluorine Products as well as improving volumes in Resins &amp; Chemicals and Specialty products.
Overall PMT segment margins in the quarter are expected to be up 230 basis points to 250 basis points driven by strong productivity net of inflation and the favorable margin rate impact of the market-based pricing model in Resins &amp; Chemicals.
While second half of the year will be built  will be challenging for PMT the strong growth in our Advanced Materials portfolio and our disciplined cost management and productivity initiatives give us confidence in our forecast.
Lets turn to Slide 10 to address the trends were seeing in our key end markets and discuss how theyre impacting our outlook.
On balance you can see an overall positive perspective beginning with nonresidential portion of ACS.
We expect the acceleration in commercial construction spending and our positive outlook for the year the full year remains intact.
We saw strong growth in our short-cycle businesses in Fire Safety and Security; and expected new wins commercial excellence and initiatives in high-growth region as well as positive end market trends will continue to drive growth in these businesses.
As for building solutions the firm backlog in our projects business and growth in our service bank supporting improvement for the remainder of 2015.
On the industrial side we continue to benefit from the demand for productivity solutions and increasing safety standards across the globe as activity picks up in both the U.S.
and in our high-growth regions.
So overall good momentum as we head into the third quarter after solid core organic growth in the second quarter.
In Aerospace our outlook on the commercial aftermarket continues to improve.
Flight hours for Air Transport and Regional are expected to grow to approximately 4.5% in 2015 slightly above 2014.
And on the business jet side we expected flight hours for large cabin aircraft will continue to grow in 2015 up mid-single digit reflecting continued healthy demand.
We anticipate that the good growth we saw in R&amp;O this quarter will continue in Q3 and Q4 while sales of BGAs  spares will also improve in part driven by the RMU portfolio.
So overall we expect a modest acceleration in the second-half of the year for Aerospace  Commercial Aerospace that is.
In Defense &amp; Space were seeing strong international demand as defense budgets continue to grow.
This is supported by the high single-digit core organic growth we experience in our international business in the second quarter.
And our strong backlog although still a modest headwind associated with lower governments funding levels we expect the U.S.
portion of the business to stabilize consistent with U.S.
DoD budgets.
Overall we remain on track for low-single digit core organic growth for Defense &amp; Space in 2015.
On oil and gas we actually are seeing a very robust level of proposal activity in both UOP and HPS.
And in some pockets orders are expected to accelerate such as in the UOP gas processing business where we expect a reasonably strong third and fourth quarter for modular equipment offerings outside the U.S.
But on the balance were not expecting a broader recovery for UOP order rates in the near term.
In Process Solutions we anticipate continued growth in orders in the second-half in our solutions in software businesses and expected a good portion of the large process technology orders booked in the first-half will also convert to sales.
Activity in the Middle East continue to be strong while in other regions including China and Southeast Asia we anticipate a continued slowdown in order activity for Process Solutions.
As for the rest of the Honeywell portfolio Commercial OE Transportation Systems the Residential Businesses in ACS and Advanced Materials were expecting continued good growth in the second-half.
Our installed base in Commercial OE continues to grow with good wins on the right platforms.
Global penetration of turbo technology particularly for gas engines will continue and our track record of flawless launches in TS remains a key differentiator.
On the residential side we expect growth to continue as we accelerate investments in the connected home space and build on our strong position.
And in Advanced Materials customer demand for our low global warming suite of products is increasing and we are encouraged by the continued adoption of Solstice on a global basis.
Im turning to our full year guidance on Page 11.
As Dave mentioned based on our strong first-half performance were raising the low-end of the full year EPS guidance range with a new range of $6.05 to $6.15.
Everything else is pretty much intact as we head into second-half of 2015.
Weve demonstrated our ability to perform in a challenging environment.
Were highly confident we can do the same again this year.
Full year sales expectations remain in the range of $39 billion to $39.6 billion up approximately 3% on a core organic basis.
There are some puts and takes among the businesses but overall remain on track to the full year guidance we provided in April.
On the segment margin weve increased our full-year guidance by 10 basis points on the low-end as our deployment of HOS Gold continues to drive a better more efficient operating system both in our plants and in our back-office.
We now expect segment margins of 18.4% to 18.6% thats up 140 basis points to 160 basis points versus last year excluding the impact of the fourth quarter $184 million Aerospace OEM incentives.
On EPS the new guidance range results in 9% to 11% increase from 2014.
Again were planning for 26.5% tax rate in third quarter with fourth quarter tax rate a bit lower to get to our full year planning assumption of 26.5%.
Finally we continue to expect free cash flow in the range of $4.2 billion to $4.3 billion up 8% to 11% from 2014 even with CapEx investments rising to roughly twice that of depreciation.
Each of the businesses remains focused on driving further working capital improvement in the second-half.
So overall were forecasting another very strong year solid organic sales growth and strong execution that yield excellent segment margin and free cash flow outcomes and another year of double-digit EPS growth which would mark our sixth consecutive year of having done so.
Lets turn to Slide 12 and in summary  for the summary we had a solid first-half and with second quarter performance again at the high-end of our expectation adding to our strong performance track record and creating momentum for the rest of the year.
The uncertainty in the macro-environment is not new for us.
We have and will continue to plan conservatively.
Well continue to focus on executing sustainable productivity actions including delivering on strong restructuring pipeline weve already funded.
Innovation and new product introductions remain a key priority as well as the investments were making to further penetrate high-growth regions and expand capacity.
Were in the process as Dave mentioned of planning for the long-term including 2016 and beyond.
And our management team is focused on execution.
We feel confident that with our balanced portfolio mix alignment to favorable macro trends and focused cost disciplines well continue to outperform.
So with that lets move to Q&amp;A.
Okay.
Operator? Thank you.
The floor is now open for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Well pause for just a moment to give everybody the opportunity to signal.
Okay.
And we will take our first question from Scott Davis from Barclays.
Hi good morning guys.
Hey Scott.
Hey Im going to say the usual congratulatory language Dave youve Well thank you.
Its still nice to hear it Scott.
Yes I know it.
Well its good I know it kills you too.
It does.
It does.
Anyway Dave help us I was going to ask about capital allocation but I think thatd be a wasteful question at this point.
Well what are you seeing in the world Dave? And the reason why I asked that question is last quarter you had 2% core growth I think it was this quarter 3% core growth next quarter youre kind of guiding to 3% to 4%.
So youve been sequentially improving or at least talking about sequential improvement.
But the world seems like it is almost going the other direction that sequentially and maybe degrading.
Are you not seeing that or kind of help us understand how the macro lines up with the guidance? Well I wouldn't say were seeing a boomlet and thats not what we try to convey but all in all I think starting off with what was generally a slow first quarter for everyone when it came to sales growth things have in my view improved a bit since that time.
And Id say a lot of this is coming more under what we are able to control and what we are able to do and were seeing better performances in our businesses being able to take advantage of the growth trends that do exist.
I would also say Scott we benefit some from this diversity of opportunity that you hear me talk about.
So that yeah okay we've got some oil and gas exposure but we were able to manage that and it doesnt have such a deleterious effect on our performance that we cant manage above it.
So Id say its more a combination of things and saying that its slightly better than it was but its still not a boomlet.
Tom I dont know if theres anything you want to add there.
No I would agree with that.
The only piece of color to maybe provide is that the when you look at the month sequentially April was definitely the lowest from a growth perspective up slightly where  whereas the momentum picked up in May and June and got us to that 3%.
Okay thats helpful.
Guys how do you think about the interplay between growth and margin? And what I mean is I mean youve been crushing in on margins core growth has really been in pretty much in line with the group now for most of the last couple of years give or take a point.
Is there  are there conversations you have internally around that going after margin might be hurting price in some  Im sorry might be hurting growth to some extent or is that just not related at all? Well the two are interconnected but I look at it differently.
And if you go back to the beginning of my tenure here Ive always said growth and productivity go together that as you grow you become more productive because you have more volume leverage youre able to leverage your fixed cost better.
By the same token the more productive you become the more money that gives you to reinvest in the thing youd like to do.
And as you know Ive always been big on this concept of seed planting.
And that was pretty costly in the early years because we pretty much had an empty pipeline on everything whether it was high-growth regions new products new strategies or technologies we really had to fill the pipeline so margin expansion was a little more muted back then because we had to fill the pipeline on everything and it took us five or six years to do which unfortunately took us right into the recession when yes we were getting benefiting from some of that but it was just a hell of a lot less visible.
Well now that were able to get some of the sales growth that we do were much better were able to have get that sales leverage as minimal as it might seem in todays environment were still able to get leverage from that.
And were able to Id say finally start seeing the benefits of HOS and some of our other initiatives on the gross margin side.
And thats where were seeing the real leverage here.
The two go together and I can promise you were certainly not under investing whether you look at R&amp;D or CapEx or new product programs or commitment to Huey is certainly not a case under investment because we want to make sure we make not just this quarter but this same quarter three years from now and six years from now.
Makes sense the track record is there.
So thanks guys and good luck and have a great rest of summer.
Yes thanks.
You too.
We will now take our next question from Joe Ritchie from Goldman Sachs and Company.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Nice quarter.
Hey Joe thanks.
Good morning Joe.
Its nice to hear it stated with no reluctance at all Joe.
Thank you.
Id like to go ahead.
Yes we differ in that way.
Just that way.
The first question I have is really around China and you guys seem to still be doing incredibly well there growing at double-digit and youve had some of your European peers come out and talk about the credit issues recently and peers are starting to intensify a little bit more around the region.
Im just wondering what youre seeing specifically in a region whether trends deteriorated at all during the quarter? Joe good Ill take that one Dave.
The  yes China was a very good story for us in most of the pockets.
I mean ACS as we said was near double-digit.
Really the changes that weve made to connect all of those businesses in China and get to Tier 2 Tier 3 cities and make investments to help all the businesses in portfolio running it as one portfolio really having a huge impact.
And in fact we expect that to continue.
We expect very strong growth rates in Q3 and Q4.
In fact for China some of our orders are actually  we use sales as a surrogate for orders.
But in some cases we actually do have the orders and what were seeing really gives us good encouragement for the rest of the year in ACS.
Aero was also strong.
As you know its mostly in spares and R&amp;O business there in China for us right now up mid single-digits and we do expect that to continue.
TS is a little bit smaller.
The commercial vehicles segment in TS was challenged.
So we were down in China for Transportation Systems.
And then when you look at PMT some challenges particularly with cyclicality in UOP the cat shipments are quite lumpy can be lumpy from year-over-year.
In Q2 we had significant cat sales so tough quarter from that perspective but we see that improving as we go forward into Q3.
So I think all of the businesses are expected to continue to grow and improve from Q2 to Q3 so were encouraged by whats going on.
So if I could add to that Joe youd have to say overall clearly the Chinese economy is straining [ph] a bit more than it has in the past.
But that being said its still pretty good and we see the oil and gas side Toms point but on balance between the growth that does exist there plus our own strength as we develop more China-based products I think puts us in a pretty good spot.
Thats helpful guys.
I guess maybe following up on oil and gas and specifically the margins this quarter they were pretty phenomenal.
And Im just wondering if you can help parse out the 330 basis points you can clearly still expect oil and gas margins to continue to be good in 3Q despite a deteriorating backdrop.
And so just help us get a little bit more color into that? Yes.
As you know  thanks for pointing that out Joe.
PMT margins were up to 21.3% with their 18% last year so really nice 330 basis points.
We had great contributions from  some volume in Advanced Materials that we talked about very good productivity strong cost controls lower indirect expenses but also at the same time as Dave said continuing the investments.
So productivity was definitely a big driver.
Were also seeing good results in terms of the pricing.
That seems to be holding up well.
And as I said there are some things that have driven that down a little bit.
The catalyst comps year-over-year little bit of a tougher story.
And then the overall volume declines that we mentioned in UOP and HPS will drag.
So to summarize all of that its a good commercial excellence good performance on the commercial side tough from a volume perspective but really nice work on productivity.
All right.
Great thanks guys will get back in queue.
Thanks.
And well take our next question from Nigel Coe from Morgan Stanley.
All right Dave a very enthusiastic great quarter.
Thank you.
I liked your appreciation.
Could you feel that coming through? I liked it.
Okay.
So obviously this full year plan pretty much intact little bit high at the low-end  on the margin line.
Just reading through the commentary it feels like Commercial Aerospace is a little bit better in the plan; perhaps PMT a little bit weaker.
Is that a fair comment to pass it on? Yes it is.
I dont know that  I guess PMT might be a little weaker than what we thought because oil and gas had a slightly bigger impact than we thought at the beginning of the year but still pretty much within the forecast.
And Im pretty sure  I think all three segments beat their sales numbers based on what we had committed anyway.
Yes for the quarter.
Yes.
Okay.
So pretty much  the mix is pretty much as you expected okay.
Yes.
Thats great.
Then just switching to the Solstice backlog $3.2 billion thats obviously a very impressive number given the size of that business right now.
Do you have any  can you give us any sense on how that backlog is aging and how much of that backlog converts for the next couple of years? Most of it is all forward.
Were not going to age the backlog but I would say its going to be a good contributor to us over the next two or three years especially as you think about that PMT inflection that we talk about its going to be driven by the UOP MTO stuff and the Fluorines capacity both of which were investing in today.
Yes okay.
And then just the final one I think Tom you mentioned 3Q to TS up low single-digits and I think the expectation is that European volumes might pickup in 3Q.
So Im wondering number one do you see that coming through in Europe? And then secondly are we seeing a big offset from the commercial weakness there? Yes I think in the second quarter TS in Europe was youre right was pretty strong from an organic basis in the mid single-digits as we said in line with overall TS and we see that continuing for the third quarter.
I mean the  its a mix of some platforms expiring and new platforms coming on and there are some offsets that that also come into play.
The commercial vehicles overall for both in China and the U.S.
as we talked about has been kind of one of the challenges were dealing with.
But overall Europe should be up mid single-digits or even higher for us in the third quarter for Transportation Systems.
Okay thats great.
Ill leave it there.
Thanks a lot guys.
Well take our next question from Steven Winoker from Bernstein.
Thanks and good morning all.
Hi.
Hey Dave the only thing I can say is that the share price is thanks enough.
So Ill leave it there.
Well we want to keep everybody comfortable Steve.
Its important Dave we need these results.
So let me just ask quickly on the quarter for Q3 guidance.
It looks like its up I guess 5% year-on-year which implies the fourth quarter has got to be up like 15%.
Maybe talk about the cadence there and particularly within aerospace as youve got lower margin expansion on higher core growth than you did before.
And is that just even though thats a strong 80 basis points to 100 basis points number is that just makes offset or what are the headwinds there? Well first of all I dont think the b-percents [ph] are quite as dramatic as you indicated.
But Ill turn it over to Tom.
Yes I mean the  we will have a strong  very strong fourth quarter.
There are some nice inflections coming in PMT.
As an example we have again theres some lumpiness in the gas business.
But we think that in PMT were going to see some nice growth coming through in those businesses in the fourth quarter.
And overall the  it is our highest quarter from a volume perspective.
So theres  the base is really driven by what we see the visibility that we have to the sales pipeline.
And in the margin  the margins in Aero even though its 80 basis points to 100 basis points again the core growth is looking strong and you did more before is that what are the headwinds there? Say it again Steve? Just in Aerospace what are the headwinds you are not putting up even higher aerospace margins in Q3? Well we get more comparability on from a FX perspective and of course Friction Materials is in that  is in the business as well so that the two of those temper the significance of the margin increase.
So if you go back to that page I think it was page five in our slide you see the big impact from those three factors.
Those tend to subside as we get further into the year particularly the FX and the Friction Materials.
Friction Materials is mid-July last year.
Yes but operationally I mean all the factors we talk about from an operational perspective still should hold in pretty firm.
And how is the cash flow progress in aero? Is that improving in as you see that improving Dave youve talked about a lot of opportunity there going forward? Well the cash flow is still good.
They just need to do a significantly better job on inventory than they have in the past Yes okay.
Okay.
All right and maybe which would be upside.
And maybe just lastly on gross margin just a little bit bigger picture question.
So this is the highest Q2 gross margin were obviously seeing in very very very long time.
So as you see that crossing 30% now Dave from a pricing and business model perspective you think it can continue with that same pace you think it can accelerate decelerate how are you thinking about that? Oh yeah I think this is going to be an ongoing phenomenon for us.
Im not going to commit what its going to get to at some point.
But certainly its going to be an important factor as we continue to grow our overall operating income percentage.
Right.
Okay.
All right thanks.
See you Steve.
And we will take our next question from Jeff Sprague from Vertical Research Partners.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Hey Jeff.
Dave the 40th anniversary Honeywell Users Group did you guys print up some shirts like give me a hug or something like that you could send around? Only for you Jeff.
Okay.
Ill be checking my mailbox.
Hey just a couple of things.
Actually first thinking about business jet and strictly large cabin theres some crack showing up in what some of the OEs are saying pressure from wealthy developing countries and the like sounds like youre pretty constructive on the back-half.
But do you see any reduction in the order books going forward there? Not for us.
I would say while they may be seeing some softness which will get reflected for us also.
Its going to be more than offset by all the gains weve had.
So Both on the equipment side and on R&amp;O I mean strong R&amp;O performance as well in the BGA.
And it looks like that will hold up for the rest of the year.
Okay.
And then on gas processing getting firmer is there  I guess you pointed to emerging markets.
Is there something really specific driving that? Is there some share gains or whats actually the driver behind that? Well if you go back to the premise of the Thomas Russell acquisition that we did then it was primarily a U.S.
based business.
We said at the time that our intent was to grow it more internationally which it takes some time to make happen but youre starting to see the benefit of a lot of that from all the seed planting that we did over the last two or three years to make that happen.
And thats mostly the effects youre getting.
And then finally maybe for Tom I was just wondering on the hedges.
Have you done anything new there rolled it forward or are we kind of making the bet here kind of this whole euro trade has played itself out and were going to  youre going to let things roll-off? Whats the thought process there? Well were not betting first of all but we  what we told you at the end of the first quarter we pretty much  its pretty much consistent with where we are right now.
So you know the story on 2015 pretty much fully hedged for the rest of the year.
2016 we got the euro hedged probably about three-quarters of the exposure and some selective hedging in some of the other currencies.
We keep our eye on it.
We talk about it every week and were all closely interested in seeing how that plays out.
Whats the exchange rate on the hedge for 2016? As we said for the euro its $1.10.
$1.10 okay thank you very much.
See you Jeff.
Thanks.
We will now take a question from Steve Tusa from JPMorgan.
Hi good morning.
Hi Steve.
Congratulations on the use of the word deleterious.
Its a bit more it sounds more like Harvard than UNH but so  its a good work on that.
You have no idea of what UNH is capable of Steve.
On PMT the UOP business Thomas Russell how bad was it in the quarter? And do you think that there is enough out there that you can confidently say that you may be able to kind of fill this domestic hole and actually hold the business flat next year? Were still in the process of planning everything for 2016 but overall I think Tom alluded to this earlier is that weve got pretty good quote activity going in both oil and gas UOP and process controls.
So wed like to think now thats  quote activity is not synonyms with an order.
But its certainly a nice hopefully leading indicator of where things could go.
That being said thats too early to declare victory.
Yeah I mean sequentially were seeing improvement from first quarter second quarter and third quarter expectations on orders in the gas business so  and theres is a reasonable degree of visibility to some of the revenues that we expect to see in the second-half.
So as Dave said were watching it closely but there are some positive signs for that business.
Is there another part of PMT? Are there benefits from whats going on in downstream margins globally? Or  it seems like a lot of this stuff is much more UOP-specific so little bit tougher to call by looking at just the macro.
I mean is that the right way to think about it? And I guess are you still in a growth mode again for UOP in 2016? I know you guys talked about that last quarter that you expected to grow in the 2016.
I guess a couple of things that I mention is one of the things weve said in the past is that you have to kind of break out that oil cycle between the exploration side thats more price driven and the refining petrochemical side thats going to be more driven by economic activity.
And youre seeing a bit of a drag on that second part because of how people have reacted to the first part.
But overall their margins as you know look pretty good.
And we think over time that investment begins.
When it comes to UOP they still got the capacity expansion thats coming and that stuff we got to complete that plant on time because we need to ship and the projects are already being built.
So I certainly feel more than okay about it.
And you still pretty  you still feel pretty confident with the fluorine stuff coming on with that revenue  incremental revenue chart you guys put up in March with I think it was like $1 billion in incremental revenue in 2017.
Even with the oil and gas macro-headwinds out there that you are  there is kind of no changes to that view.
Yes.
Even better I mean.
Even better with the Fluorine Products [indiscernible].
And then one last question any degree of evolution at all on the balance sheet? I mean you guys are clearly executing well.
So you dont necessarily need to  there is really not a need for significant urgency around the balance sheet but any of these properties that you covered loosening up at all with whats clearly a more  a tougher micro-environment out there or no change? Well I would have to say the strategy hasnt changed.
And like Ive said with the retail store you never know when these things are going to hit.
You never know when the customer is going to walk in.
So were armed and ready.
Okay but no big buyback near term? Strategy still the same.
Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
And well now take a question from Howard Rubel from Jefferies.
Thank you very much.
You called  Tom you called this out a little bit but maybe you could elaborate a bit.
SG&amp;A was down substantially I think it fell from 13.4% to 12.7%.
Can you elaborate on some of the causes some of it maybe FX but a bunch of it is probably process changes? Yes.
I think the Steve when you  the percentage that youre mentioning Howard.
Oh sorry Howard.
I do not want to get confused.
I do not want to get confused with Steve please.
Yes.
Im sorry about that Howard.
So I think when you look at the percentage youre talking about since the FX is affecting sales more than it is the cost numbers you do get a little bit of a margin impact but for us the initiatives that weve got going on the continued work that were doing in functional transformation the continued work that were doing in managing the indirect cost of those groups and function spend the e-auction process that were using.
All the initiatives are really having a solid impact and theyre coming through so there is not one thing in there just continued sustained momentum that we got.
And then you talked a lot about one of the things that makes a difference at Honeywell has been new products.
And we can see it in Fluorines and we can see it in a few other places.
Is there  do you have a metric that you look at in terms of new sales new product sales as a comparison to a year ago? Actually Howard Ive always tried to stay away from that because if you want a metric that can be easily gained internally and externally thats it.
I go more by are we growing faster than our competition.
And when I see things like the Dassault cockpit and what were able to do with fluorines and what ACS has coming and Huey bases that everybody is using for it; then I know it is happening.
I hear you.
And then if I could just go back In another words if you said jeez we want to see 50% of your sales coming from products introduced in the last three years.
My guess is every company can generate that metric for you regardless of how theyre performing.
You have a fair point.
And then the last thing I think a number of people before me have asked the same question in another way.
It seems if in PMT the oil and gas expectations that had been laid out earlier have shifted to the right.
Have you gone back in and examined exactly why or even have you kind of added some belt and suspenders to the process to make sure that in fact the second-half that that youre looking for is going to play out the way youd like? Were not counting on a huge second-half on oil and gas its kind of static maybe a little bit better but were not counting on anything big.
I think the  I think youll see an uptick in orders knock on wood for gas weve said as well as for catalyst but on balance I dont think were expecting a major material change right now.
All right.
Thank you.
Yes.
Well now take a question from Christopher Glynn from Oppenheimer.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Hey Chris.
Hey Dave.
Hey Tom.
So you talked about the inflections at aero Hello Chris.
Yes hello.
A question for you first.
How is the ankle? Oh thanks slow but better than ski season.
Well the rumor we heard is that you drank a six-pack and tried to jump into a dinghy is that true? I think it was a 12-pack but so Just now you know we have fielders out there too.
I guess you do.
Now that was a day with the kids that was a clean day.
So like all of them.
So with ACS you talked about the inflections of PMT and Aviation.
So with ACS if we look at a few more years where the macro remains in this way can HUE and VPD actually drive some acceleration there or is it 3% to 4% in this environment kind of the reflection of that? I would say were counting on  3% to 4% is kind of like a nice steady grower in an industry thats going to be growing slightly.
I do think to your point that kind of the Huey based onslot [ph] that theyre going to be showing over the next few years will make a difference and theres a potential for to be better than that.
Tough to predict at this point but Im encouraged by what I see out of the ACS guys.
Okay.
And used the word boomlet Ill complement you on that on.
If you were to see a boomlet what are  is an area or two where that could be.
I mean do you have drivers in there for commercial aftermarket or just as an example? Well I guess I got to be careful that Steve doesnt put deleterious boomlet together.
But at the end of the day its the way I would kind of still describe it.
And on the commercial side I think its doing slightly better for us.
And youll start to see an inflection as we go out into the future because were finally going to see the benefits of all the wins and that starts building our installed base as Tom pointed out on the engine side which all proves good for us.
Tom anything you want to add there? No.
Okay.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen due to time constraints we will take our last questions from Deane Dray with RBC Capital Markets.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for fitting me in.
Hey Dave I thought at some point you would have worked in a free-Brady [ph] into your remarks.
And I was expecting you to talk about [Technical Difficulty] Deane so I guess we both were disappointed.
Yes Daves spirit is still deflated on that one.
Understood.
Bad very bad.
One of the bullish comments that you had was on non-res.
So just may be expand a bit on the dynamics in the market its kind of the data points its just part of the boomlet that you would expect to see in the second-half? Yes Id say it continues to get better as weve talked about in the past.
And I dont think youre ever going to see a boom in non-res construction largely because there was never a real crash.
It was kind of that slow-in slow-out kind of thing that we talked about with the recession.
I think as were going to continue to see on the residential side my guess is youre going to continue to see that do better because rents have been going up and that will spur more activity.
But I think for non-res thats the right way to think about it its kind of slow and steady.
Yes.
Thats where weve seen our best growth in ACS particularly on the industrial side industrial piece of the non-res but commercial buildings as well trends are very good the products that we sell into there and ECC fire and safety or security all of them are doing well.
Great.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude todays question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to todays moderator for the additional or closing remarks.
Thank you.
Now I would like to turn the call back to Dave for some closing comments.
Well it certainly feels good to give all of our investors such good news as you look forward to your summer holidays.
Weve got a track record of outperforming our peers and we intend to continue that outperformance.
We want all of investors to know that they can enjoy this summer because they have their money invested in Honeywell.
So from all of us here in Honeywell have a fun and relaxing summer.
Thanks guys.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude todays conference.
We do appreciate your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful rest of your day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Honeywells Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants have been placed in a listen only mode and the floor will be opened for your questions following the presentation [Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for todays conference Mark Macaluso Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thanks and good morning and welcome to Honeywell's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
With me here today are Chairman and CEO Dave Cote and Senior Vice President and CFO Tom Szlosek.
As a reminder this call and webcast including any non-GAAP reconciliations are available on our Web site at www.honeywell/investors.
Note that elements of this presentation contain forward-looking statements that are based on our best view of the world and of our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change and we ask you interpret them in that light.
We identify the principal risks and uncertainties that affect our performance in our Form 10-K and other SEC filings.
This morning well review our financial results for the third quarter share with you our guidance for the fourth quarter and as well provide initial framework for 2016.
Finally as always well leave time for your questions at the end.
So with that I will turn the call over to Chairman and CEO Dave Cote.
Good morning everyone.
As I am sure you seen by now Honeywell delivered another quarter of double digit earnings growth highlighted by our strong execution across the portfolio.
Reported EPS of $1.60 increased 10% normalized for tax reaching the high end of our guidance range for the quarter.
Sales of 9.6 billion were up 1% on a core organic basis.
We saw continued growth in our business jet engines and repair and overhaul activities in aerospace and in our short cycle residential commercial and industrial products businesses and ACS.
In PMT demand for UOP catalyst and sources applications continued.
We generated free cash flow of 1.4 billion in the third quarter with free cash flow conversion coming in above 100% and we expect that to continue in the fourth quarter.
While we always like more our top line growth was respectable in this softening macro environment and our relentless focus on execution once again resulted in outstanding margin expansion and cash conversion while continuing to do the seed planting for a bright future.
Our segment margin expanded 190 basis points to 19.3%.
Each of our three segments delivered margin expansion above the guidance we communicated in July.
HOS Gold and our key process initiatives continue to drive productivity benefits.
And our previously funded restructuring actions will help us to continue improving our operations.
We proactively funded over $60 million of new restructuring in the quarter building on a healthy pipeline of new projects and we intend on keeping that pipeline full to support strong margin expansion next year and beyond.
There continues to be a lot of exciting developments across the portfolio so let me tell you about a couple of them.
We announced the acquisition of Elster on July 28 for $5 billion.
Elster is a leading provider of thermal gas solutions for commercial industrial and residential heating systems and gas water and electricity meters including smart meters and software data analytic solutions.
Infrastructure investments and increasing gas consumption in high growth regions like India or in China will continue to drive demand for Elsters gas heating assets strengthening our existing gas combustion portfolio to create a full solution offering.
Elsters metering portfolio consists of basic and smart meters which measure volumes consumed by commercial industrial and residential users.
The growth here will continue as the adoption of smart meters and data analytics increases and as the legislative mandates in Europe China or in other major regions take shape.
In addition Elster has a complementary presence to process solutions in natural gas transportation and storage.
A large portion of natural gas reserves are found in remote regions.
And as the long term trends in natural gas remain positive the need to transported from these geographies to the rest of the world continues to grow.
That means more pipelines regulators control valves and metering systems.
And with Elster well be positioned well at each point of the value chain.
Elsters expected to add $2 billion in sales at approximately 20% operating margin building on our great positions and good industries in ACS and PMT.
We expect approximately 8% of sales as cost synergies and our deployment of HOS Gold across the Elster enterprise will be the key to achieving the integration benefits.
We're also confident that there are significant sales synergy opportunities particularly in high growth regions like China by leveraging our current channels and infrastructure.
We continue to expect the deal to close in the first quarter of '16 and we're actively planning the integration.
We continue to believe we can significantly enhance share owner returns through M&amp;A as we've proved in the past with acquisitions like UOP [indiscernible] Thomas Russell and EMS.
In August Honeywell's partner Inmarsat successfully launched the third Global Xpress or GX satellite.
The latest launch completes the GX satellite constellation which will ultimately provide passengers air cruise and operators with high speed internet connectivity anywhere in the world including on transoceanic flights.
Aircraft connectivity is one of the biggest technological revolutions happening within the commercial aviation sector as the number of aircrafts equipped with passenger connectivity systems is expected to double to more than 4 000 by 2016 and wireless inflight entertainment is expected to be on about a quarter of the global commercial fleet by 2018.
Honeywell's position to benefit from the growing demand and connectivity as the exclusive hardware provider for Inmarsat's GX satellite constellation and the exclusive wireless airtime reseller Inmarsat Global Xpress Ka band aircraft connectivity services for business aviation operators.
As airlines increasingly look at how they can utilize real time connectivity for flight operational task like real time weather and database updates to the cockpit and proactive maintenance and as passengers continue to request faster Wi-Fi connections in flight the need for Honeywell's Jetway high speed satellite communications hardware will continue.
We currently have orders for over 300 Jetways systems in 2016 across our air transport and business aviation customer base with additional orders expected soon.
In transportation systems we unveiled our 2015 Global Turbocharger forecast at the annual Frankfurt international motor show.
We now estimate that by 2020 roughly half of all cars on the road will have Turbocharged engines up from one-third of all passenger vehicles today.
In addition global market demand will drive an increased desire for turbo technology innovations that enhances vehicles overall power train system reduced complexity and are catered to local market needs.
In this period of accelerating turbo penetration Honeywell is well positioned to meet the changing demands of our customers and we expect to continue growing faster than the industry due to our differentiated technology global footprint and the Honeywell operating systems.
With just over two months left in the year we're confident in our ability to deliver on the earnings guidance we set for 2015 last December despite the slower growth environment in the global economy since then.
We are conserving our full year 2015 earnings guidance that approximately $6.10 per share representing growth of 10% versus 2014 which would be our sixth consecutive year of double-digit earnings growth.
We'll continue to be flexible and plan conservatively as we move into 2016.
Tom will preview our initial planning framework for next year.
And as you will see there are bright spots in what will be a slow growth environment.
We've demonstrated that we can execute well particularly in a tough macro environment a big reminder of the value of our diversified and balanced portfolio and the strength of the Honeywell process initiatives.
Segment margins are expanding while at the same time we are continuing seed planning in high growth regions high ROI CapEx process improvements and new products and technologies.
The restructuring we funded will provide runway for future margin expansion throughout our five year plan.
We're excited about the year ahead and look forward to discussing our plan with you in December.
So with that I'll turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Dave and good morning.
I'm on slide which shows the third quarter results.
Sales of 9.6 billion were up 1% on a core organic basis as were able to overcome a sluggish macro environment.
Growth was particularly noteworthy in BGA OE where engine shipments were strong in our ACS short cycle products businesses across residential commercial and industrial end market in UOP catalysts and in our Solstice suite of refrigerants.
The growth in these areas helped us to mitigate the ongoing challenges we have discussed in the oil and gas commercial vehicle and energy retrofit markets which we served.
On a reported basis the sales decline in this quarter was again driven by foreign currency and lower pass-through pricing in resins and chemicals.
Segment profit increased 5% with segment margin expanding 190 basis points to 19.3%.
As Dave mentioned all three of our segments came in above the high end of the guidance we issued back in July.
We continue to benefit from HOS Gold our focus on commercial excellence new product development functional transformation and strong cost control across the portfolio while maintaining our investments for growth.
So really nice work for us each of the businesses in a relatively tough environment.
Similar to the prior quarter items below segment profit was favorable on a year-over-year basis as we had anticipated.
Higher pension income was offset by additional restructuring as Dave said we funded over 60 million of new restructuring projects this quarter.
Building on our $300 million plus pipeline as of the end of the third quarter which positions us well for continued margin expansion throughout the five year plan.
On share account in addition to our normal repurchasing to offset current dilution.
We accelerated our repurchase activity in the third quarter given the market downturn in the late summer.
This actions will enable us to offset the expected dilution in the next few quarters and broader weighted average fully diluted share account were approximately 790 million shares for the quarter.
We expect account to be approximately 781 million shares in the fourth quarter as the forward impact of this repurchasing activity kicks in.
Reported earnings per share of $1.60 was up 10% normalized to our expected full year tax rate of 26.5% in both period.
Again coming in at the high end of our EPS guidance range and marking another quarter of double-digit earnings growth.
Finally free cash flow was strong in the quarter at 1.4 billion up 43% versus 2014 with conversion of the 110% largely driven by improving in net income and working capital.
We anticipate free cash and flow conversion to continue above the 100% in the fourth quarter so overall another quarter of strong earnings growth we are confident in achieving our EPS guidance for the year.
Let me move on to slide five you'll recognize this format we used to explain the components of our robust margin expansion in the quarter.
A majority of the expansions coming from our operating initiatives which as you can see generated a 140 of the 190 basis point margin improvement.
HOS Gold is the overall driver new product introductions and commercial excellence continues to drive volume growth despite than the slow growth environment.
Each segment is generating significant productivity and we're continuing to see that improve our gross margin rates.
Our supply chains are becoming more lean and there is a strong collaboration across the organization to drive down on material cost and indirect spend.
We're also seeing savings from the previously funded restructuring actions.
Moving over on the slide the bricks and material divestiture our foreign currency hedging approach and lower raw materials pass through pricing in [RMC] also enhance margins collectively to the tune of about 50 basis points.
We sold bricks and materials in July of 2014 so we've largely lapsed this benefit.
However it is the permanent improvement for our margin rate reflecting our continued approach to capital location.
On foreign currency our hedging strategy protects our operating result even if sales fluctuate with changes in currencies so there is a lift in margin through yearend.
And finally as we discussed our pricing model in Resins and Chemicals protects profit dollars in a period of lower selling prices they are by increasing the margin rate.
So another solid quarter of margin improvement driven by our operating system and key process initiatives.
We expect to see similar outperformance in the fourth quarter as we explained shortly.
Moving to slide six and the Aerospace results.
Sales for the third quarter were up 2% on a core organic basis driven by continued growth in BGA OE engine shipments.
Commercial after market and light vehicle gas volumes offset by lower commercial vehicle production and transportation systems.
Segment margin expansion continue to be strong at a 150 basis points and we exceeded the high end of the guidance in the quarter.
Commercial OE was up 4% on a core organic basis driven by double-digit increase in BGA engine shipments.
As sales were up across all of the large business jet platforms in which we participate.
Deliveries of our HTF engine continue to grow and we expect engine demands to be robust into the fourth quarter.
Similar to last quarter air transport OE sales reflect as planned while regional sales decline due to intentional delays on shipments to certain emerging market customers.
Commercial aircraft sales were up 3% on an organic basis driven by continued strong growth and repair in overhaul activities partially offset by lower spare sales.
R&amp;O sales were up high single-digit in the quarter and have improved sequentially throughout 2015.
We saw a strong growth globally in ATR R&amp;O particularly in Europe and APAC well our BGA R&amp;O business continues to perform well at key North American market.
On the spare side RMUs were Retrofit Modifications and Upgrades have continue to moderate us we have planned and ATR spare sales were slower than expected approximately flat in a quarter driven primarily by lower than expected demand in certain high growth regions principally China.
Looking ahead we expect that our set com and other RMUs will offset some of this spare softness.
Depends on space sales were up 2% on a core organic basis driven by double-digit growth in our International Defense Business.
Demand from our Middle East and Asia Pacific customers was strong while the U.S our sales were slightly down.
Finally in transportation system sales increased 1% on a core organic basis due to new platform launches and continued volume growth in light vehicle application.
Sales growth overall was lower than expected due to lower commercial vehicle volumes particularly in North America and China.
We expect that commercial vehicle volumes will improve sequentially in the fourth quarter.
On the reported basis sales declined 16% reflecting foreign currency headwinds and the [printing] materials divestiture I talked about.
I want to take a minute to address some of the questions we received about the impact of the Volkswagen emissions matter on turbo technology and on our turbo business.
I wanted to explain why this is far from a disaster from Honeywell and in fact its still an organic growth story.
First while we value the relationship with VW as we do every customer our sales to VW represents less than 1% of total Honeywell sales.
So while significant were not dependent on any one vehicle manufacturer globally.
Second the benefits of diesel engines remain compelling.
Diesel engines operate at higher levels of compression enabling them to achieve higher fuel efficiency and lower CO2 emissions than gasoline engines.
In addition diesel delivers significantly higher torque enabling better acceleration and greater towing capacity and payload instruction like commercial vehicles.
Third the output for diesel supply continues to be robust as diesel will always be one of the useful outputs from the oil refining process.
So as long as there is oil being refined there will be an ample supply of diesel.
And last in the unlikely events there was a gradual shift away from diesel technology or from a particular OEM we are well positioned on other existing OEM platforms and expect that well continue doing a significant share of new platforms particularly in gas where we have an increasing position.
On a year-to-date basis our TS business has grown 3% organically and we expect that growth to continue into 2016 as global penetration of diesel and gas turbo charger technology accelerates to roughly half of all vehicles on the road by 2020.
Transportation systems continues to be a key element of the Honeywell growth story.
Aerospace margin expanded 150 basis points above the high end of our guidance range driven by commercial excellence productivity net of inflation and the favorable impacts from foreign currency hedges.
And [printing] material divestiture partially offset by the margin impact of higher OE shipments and continued investments for growth.
These includes flight testing of our connectivity offerings on the Boeing 757 test aircraft which some of you may have seen in Paris and new product introductions across our mechanical and electrical portfolio to ensure we continue to win on the right platforms.
Lets turn to the ACS results on Slide 7.
In ACS Alex and his team continue to advance our connective ACS initiative.
ACS has realigned four of its businesses into two strategic business units namely Honeywell Security and Fire or HSF and Sensing and Productivity Solutions or S&amp;PS which encompasses the legacy testing and control and scanning and mobility portfolios.
The broader scope of these businesses will provide us better scale in our high growth regions and differentiated connectivity solutions and will position us to better capitalize on growth opportunities across residential commercial and industrial markets.
You will hear us reference these businesses throughout the rest of the presentation.
ACS sales were up 3% on a core organic basis in the third quarter as we experienced continued growth in our short cycle products businesses.
ACS continues to outperform in China up 10% in the quarter driven by our connected ACS China business and continued investments for growth.
The ACS margin expansion was again very strong at 130 basis points and we exceeded the high end of our margin guidance range this quarter.
Energy safety and security sales were up 4% on a core organic basis in the third quarter driven by the strong performance in our Security and Fire and Sensing and Productivity Solutions businesses.
S&amp;PS delivered another quarter of solid double digit core organic sales growth driven by volume from co-brand wins most notably from the U.S.
Postal Service agreement along with new product introductions in China.
The rest of ACS also continues to benefit from new production introductions and further penetration in our high growth regions.
This was partially offset by volume declines in our industrial safety business due principally to oil and gas related discretionary cut.
Building solutions and distribution sales were up 1% on a core organic basis in the third quarter.
We continue to see strengths in the Americas distribution business or sales growth has improved sequentially every quarter in 2015.
This was offset by decline in building solutions driven primarily by softness in the project installation and energy retrofit businesses.
In the energy retrofit business we currently have been selective in competitive RFPs for approximately 500 million of U.S.
Federal and Municipal business which will subsequently convert to orders and then to revenues.
The conversion of these RFP wins in orders has unfortunately taken a longer time than weve historically seen driving this pool of preorders to more than 2x prior years level.
But as a precursor to future orders and backlog this is a positive sign.
And on the federal side in particular with the presidential challenge requiring award by the end of 2016 we believe these big orders will start to convert to orders in the coming quarter.
Overall in ACS the backlog is flat year-over-year as growth in products and services has been offset by this energy challenge.
Also conversion of orders and backlog has been slower than anticipated particularly in Americas and EMEA.
ACS margins expanded 130 basis points to 17.2% in the quarter.
The business continues to benefit from good conversion on higher volumes and significant productivity improvements net of inflation.
At the same time we continue to make strategic investments in new product development connected product offerings and in our high growth regions which as we've noted drove double growth and continued order momentum particularly in China.
We expect further margin expansion in 2016 and beyond as the team integrates and builds out the connected ACS initiative we described at our Investor Day.
And now on Slide 8 to discuss PMT result.
PMT sales were down 3% on a core organic basis in what continues to be a challenging market environment for oil and gas.
There is a PTM team had been resilient and unrelenting and they're focused to overcome these headwinds.
We exceeded the high-end of our segment margin guidance by 80 basis points driven by strong execution and continued productivity action while maintaining our investments for growth.
UOP sales were down 15% on a core organic basis driven by lower gas processing licensing and equipment sales partially offset by robust catalyst demand as we had planned.
Catalyst shipments to the new Holophane units accelerated in the quarter while catalyst orders were strong which we expect will drive substantial catalyst sales growth in the fourth quarter.
The higher catalyst sales benefited PMT margins in the quarter as well.
In gas processing we're seeing some signs of life coming out of a quiet first half.
We signed orders for two new Russell modular units and expect the orders to further build into the fourth quarter driven by international opportunities.
In process solutions core organic sales were down 5% driven by double digit declines in our short-cycle field product business and weakness in long-cycle projects partially offset by higher sales in our service contract business.
The HPS projects and services backlogs remain solid up over 15% on a combined basis.
In services we saw an increase in demand for our Assurance 360 service partnership offering which is a multiyear agreement to maintaining support and optimize performance of Honeywell Control Systems.
Organic orders were down 6% in the quarter and we expect similar challenges for the rest of the year in HPS as customers delay capital spending decisions and cut discretionary spend.
Some of the spending cuts reflect the hesitancy in our installed base to remove high capacity and highly profitable plans from operations even for short maintenance periods.
This deferred maintenance will eventually require addressing which will benefit our HPS service business and for that matter our UOP catalyst business.
Advanced material sales were up 8% on a core organic basis driven by Fluorine Products which grew double digit for the fifth straight quarter as demand for Solstice low global warming products continues to ramp.
In addition specialty products continues to benefit from investments in new products.
On a reported basis advanced material sales declined 8% primarily due to the impact of the lower pass-through pricing in Resins &amp; Chemicals as we've highlighted previously.
PMT segment margins were up 330 basis points to 20.8% which again exceeded our guidance driven by significant productivity actions net of inflation commercial excellence and the favorable impact of raw materials pass-through pricing in Resins &amp; Chemicals.
PMT initiated cost management actions late in 2014 to address the challenges we anticipated in the oil and gas environment and have been very focused on reducing direct material and indirect cost.
This was partially offset by continued investments for growth and capacity expansion and R&amp;D to develop groundbreaking new products like Solstice.
We have also benefited from ongoing restructuring reducing our fixed cost structure which should help to sustain the strong margin expansion we've seen here today.
I'm now on Slide 9 with the preview of the fourth quarter before I get into the preview I want to spend a moment reminding everyone of the gain from the sale of the B/E Aerospace shares and OEM incentives from the fourth quarter 2014.
We sold the remaining 1.9 million of B/E shares in the fourth quarter of last year and separately incurred a charge of 184 million for commercial OEM incentives in aerospace.
On after tax basis there was no impact at EPS for the quarter or full year from these two transactions.
The cost for these OEM incentives was included in the aerospace segment as a reduction of revenue while the gain from the sale of B/E shares is below line and not included in the aerospace segment.
So the 2014 reported sales and margins for aero were comparably low.
Moving to the fourth quarter of 2015 we're expecting another quarter of double digit earnings growth to cap off the year.
EPS excluding pension mark-to-market adjustment is expected to be approximately down 58% up 10% year-over-year.
Total Honeywell sales are expected to be 10 billion to 10.2 billion or up 1% to 2% on a core organic basis.
Segment margins are expected to be up approximately 120 to 140 basis points excluding the impact of the 184 million fourth quarter OEM incentives in 2014.
We expect our margins will continue to improve on operational excellence similar to what we've seen throughout the year.
We're still planning the full year tax rate in 2015 at 26.5% inclusive of the fourth quarter tax rate of approximately 27.5%.
As I mentioned earlier we expect the share count to be approximately 781 million shares in the quarter on a weighted average and fully diluted basis.
We intend to be opportunistic based on market volatility and be ready to step in again when we see good buying opportunities.
Aerospace sales are expected to be up 1% to 2% on a core organic basis.
In commercial OE we expect that core organic sales will be up mid-single digits driven primarily by continued healthy engine demand in mid to large cabin business aircraft.
In commercial aftermarket we expect core organic sales to be up low single digits with similar trends to what we saw in the third quarter that is strong repair and overhaul offset by [fair softness].
Defense and space sales are expected to be flat to slightly up on a core organic basis with continued modest declines in the U.S.
and slower growth in international business against a more difficult prior year comparison.
As a reminder defense and space international increased 17% in the fourth quarter of 2014.
In transportation systems sales are expected to be up low single digit on a core organic basis driven by both light vehicle gas and diesel turbo volumes partially offset by continued headwinds from lower commercial vehicle production particularly in China as weve discussed previously.
Aerospace segment margins are expected to increase 40 to 60 basis points excluding the fourth quarter of 2014 incentive and this is driven by commercial excellence further productivity improvements and partially offset by the margin impact of higher OE shipments.
Moving on to ACS sales are expected to be up 2% to 3% on a core organic basis with low single digit core organic growth in both ESS and BSP.
Growth in our residential and commercial businesses within ESS should be similar to what we saw in the third quarter with good performance in Security and Fire in particular.
On the industrial side S&amp;PS growth will be slower with the completion of the U.S.
Postal Service deployment.
And we expect continued oil and gas related headwinds in industrial safety.
In BSP we expect continued growth in Americas distribution to be partially offset by a slower conversion of orders out of backlog in building solutions.
ACS margins are expected to be up 70 to 90 basis points driven primarily by commercial excellence continued productivity net of inflation and the benefits of prior period restructuring.
We will continue the investments in new product development and in high growth regions to support further growth in the fourth quarter and into 2016.
PMT sales are expected to be down 2% to 3% on a core organic basis reflecting the slowdown weve experienced.
Were expecting UOP to be up mid-single digit on a core organic basis primarily due to strong double digit petrochemical and refining catalyst growth partially offset by continued declines in our gas processing and process technology and equipment businesses.
In HPS were expecting core organic sales to be down mid to high single digits with declines in each line of business.
We continue to see delays in discretionary spend across the portfolio and the conversion of orders into revenue has slowed.
However our win rate on mega automation projects is helping to mitigate these declines and drive a strong backlog.
Year-to-date weve won well over 50% of these mega competition.
In advanced materials were expecting core organic sales to be down slightly principally driven by timing [employing] products.
PMT segment margins in the quarter are expected to be up 300 to 320 basis points driven by strong productivity net of inflation and the favorable margin impact of raw materials pass-through pricing in resins and chemicals.
While the fourth quarter will again be challenging for PMT our disciplined cost management and productivity initiatives give us confidence to deliver on our commitments.
Let me move to Slide 10 where Id like to review on our full year 2015 outlook.
Our sales are now expected to be approximately 38.7 billion up approximately 2% core organic and down 4% reported versus the prior year.
As for segment margins were expecting the full year to be approximately 18.8% up 220 basis points or 180 basis points excluding the fourth quarter OEM incentives from 2014.
This puts us well above the high end of the margin rate guidance we shared with you last December and on track to achieve our 2018 long term targets.
There are some puts and takes among the segment since our last update but we continue to have confidence in the segment margins for each business its roughly 21% for both aero and PMT and 16.5% for aero.
Strong performance across the portfolio and as Dave mentioned earlier were confirming our full year EPS guidance at approximately $6.10 representing 10% growth.
While there is still work to do to ensure we deliver on our full year results we have commenced our 2016 plan.
On Slide 11 Id like to walk you through some of our key planning assumption and initial thoughts by business.
The table you see depicts our initial 2016 view by business compared to 2015.
So just so I am clear neutral indicates the similar growth rate in 2016 as 2015.
Likewise plus indicates a stronger growth rate in 2016 versus 2015.
In aerospace commercial OE growth will be in line with 2015.
Our strong positions on successful platforms will drive continued shipments of new engines to key OEM following double digit BGA OE growth in 2015.
On the ATR side we expect slightly better growth as production of the Airbus A350 ramps.
These and other new platforms will continue to support growth in our ATR and BGA install base and service businesses as we move forward.
Our aftermarket business will be slightly better in 2016 due to continued strength in airline repair and overhaul activities and higher engine maintenance events in BGA attracting in line with fleet hours.
Our aftermarket business will continue to fluctuate based on flight hours and maintenance events inventory levels and customer buying patterns.
Defense and space sales are expected to be largely in line with 2015 or approximately flat to up slightly.
We anticipate the U.S.
portion of the business will continue to stabilize as we benefit from our strong install base and service offering.
Our international business should continue with strong performance despite facing tougher comps year on year after several quarters of double-digit growth in 2015.
As Tim highlighted back in March direct international sales are expected to be above 35% of our defense and space business by 2018.
So it will remain at growth engine for us as we move forward.
Finally we expect growth in transportation systems from new platform launches and steady volume growth in light vehicle gas applications globally particularly in Europe.
Similar to 2015 we expect to see moderate headwinds from lower commercial vehicle sales but also anticipate that this steep declines in CV sales will moderate.
Overall turbo penetration continues to growth as OEM develops global engine platforms which can fill needs in multiple markets and we believe we've well positioned to meet those OEM demand and win a significant portion of all new platforms.
As a reminder a majority of our FX exposure is in aerospace within transportation systems based on today's rate and our FX hedging strategy we continue to expect the year-over-year EPS headwind in 2016 at roughly $0.15.
For ACS we're expecting growth similar to what we've seen throughout 2015 roughly 20% of the ACS portfolio is in residential markets with reminder serving the commercial and industrial markets growth in ESS will be driven by new product introduction and further penetration in high growth region.
Our security and fire business is well positioned for continued growth and we expect with our energy efficiency and connected products and technologies will drive further outperformance.
As we've mentioned the acquisition of Elster is expected to add approximately 2 billion in annual sales so the sooner we close the deal the better.
On the industrial side we don't expect any near-term improvements to the headwinds we're facing in industrial safety and also see more difficult comps in S&amp;PS after four straight quarters of double-digit growth.
In BSD we expect the Americas Distribution business to continue to perform well and that's a building solutions backlog and service bank will continue to grow.
However we expect a continued slow conversion into revenues particularly in Americas and Europe.
Moving to PMT we do expect improvement in HPS growth rates driven by strong backlog and improving service bank and UOP we've seen increased levels of project quotation and the UOP team is optimistic of strong fourth quarter orders.
But the backlog of equipment and gas processing orders will be down year-over-year which will make growth in 2016 challenging.
UOP expects sustained catalyst demand after growth in the mid-single digits in 2015.
In advanced materials we expect the benefit from our significant Solstice win as demand for our next generation refrigerants continue to grow and we build upon our over 3 billion in signed agreements.
Were continuing to make significant CapEx investments in UOP and foreign products.
In 2016 we'll be at a similar level of spend to 2015 this will support an expansion of catalyst production capacity in both the U.S.
and China including MTO and other catalysts as well as growing backlog of Solstice orders.
Looking at segment margin we have strong confidence in our ability to sustain the pattern expansion you come to expect from us even in the slow growth in environment and even with the potential foreign exchange movements I've mentioned.
As we pointed out we continue to have opportunity to close the margin rate gap versus our peers starts with new products they are almost always margin enhancing and our investments to develop new products are [indiscernible] in Honeywell.
As the evidenced by our R&amp;D as a percent of revenue averaging approximately 5% over the last three years.
Our HOS Gold enterprises have the market and customer connections to ensure that the R&amp;D spend is properly allocated.
Pricing has also continued to hold up well.
We have a standard pricing methodology tools and organization focused on maximizing value capture.
We are equally focused on cost.
The Honeywell operating system permeates everything we do take our number one cost category direct and indirect material.
We continue to mature our already world class sourcing processes and tools which are creating an ongoing productivity paradigm.
We're also continuing to invest in value engineering to lower our existing [bond cost] and make products easier to produce.
There is also our factories.
The HOS methodology is pervasive throughout the supply chain and in every one of our factories you can see the lean manufacturing supplier [indiscernible] the visual process management and collaboration that make HOS work.
Also our creation of production centers of excellence where we perform similar activities in one place is starting to mature and payoff.
An example is our electronic and manufacturing COE and ACS where were now producing printed circuit boards in one location instead of seven.
And our high growth region footprint is providing a low cost based to support this consolidation one where we derived the benefit of the stronger U.S.
dollar as well.
In addition our functional transformation and organizational initiatives designed to improve quality of support to the businesses at reduce cost are stronger than ever.
We have dedicated teams supporting FT efforts in our back office organizations like IT and finance and were confident that these groups can drive sustained productivity while improving service level.
Backing up all these efforts is our restructuring pipeline.
We have over 300 million in unspent funding that will enable us to support the initiatives I mentioned.
So were in the middle of our annual planning process and we look forward to providing you more details regarding our 2016 guidance during our Outlook Call on December 16th.
Let me sum it up on Page 12.
Once again we demonstrated we can deliver on our earnings commitments despite limited help from the macro environment a big reminder of the value of our diversified and balanced portfolio and of the strength of Honeywell operating system.
We met our margin expansion and earnings growth expectations in the quarter with margins expanding in each business as we continue to execute well across the portfolio.
We did this while maintaining our focus and investments to the future as our investments in new products and technology high ROI CapEx process improvements restructuring and high growth regions continue to grow.
As we are headed in the fourth quarter we expect earnings to grow again 10% which will set us up for our sixth consecutive year of double digit earnings growth.
Weve had good momentum on margin expansion and free cash flow conversion which will continue as we close out the year.
Therell be continuing to be puts and takes across the portfolio as we headed in 2016 our strong segment margin performance and balance sheet capacity give us the confidence and flexibility to manage through the uncertain economic climate and provide a good foundation for continued earnings outperformance in 2016 and throughout our five year plan.
With that Mark lets move to Q&amp;A.
Heather if you could please open the line for Q&amp;A.
Certainly.
The floor is now open for questions [Operator Instructions].
Our first question is coming from Scott Davis with Barclays.
Its good to see a descent print in whats been a pretty crappy tape overall so Thank you.
So keeping the wheels on.
But in that spirit its interesting I mean youve done a lot of what you call seed planting already years and your margins are exceptional the core growth continues to be just a little shy of global GDP.
I mean what do you really attribute the core growth the lower core growth and the [bps] in margins.
And what I mean is that is the seed planting and such in the new products is that more of a margin mix shift improving position and youre willing to trade some volume for margins or is it just a function really of the end markets youre selling into? Id say its a combination of things Scott and I think we touched on most of them.
One is it a slow growth environment overall.
Within that weve been able to -- with the new product launches that weve done those end up being margin enhancing launches.
But as we also said back in the Investor Day a couple of years ago that we were really going to start to see the sales inflection as we got towards the end of 16 and into 17 as we got the planned expansions done the aerospace launches occurred.
So we pretty much expected it was going to work out this way.
In the meantime we had a lot of seed planting we've done on the process improvement side which continues.
There is just a lot of process improvement still available to us thats going to allow us to continue to expand margins at the same time that we invest in R&amp;D.
So from an overall sales perspective while I wish that macro environment cooperate a little more and more than we certainly its less than what we expected at the beginning of the year were going to continue to deliver very well on that sales growth because we anticipated that it was going to be on the lower side for 15 and some into 16 but that the inflections would occur after that.
So Dave youve been doing this a long time and I mean we see at least -- those are spin around a while see some similarities here in 2015 to 2001 and even 2007 early 2008.
I mean how do you think about the weakness in emerging markets and the follow up and how that increases risk at least to the -- I mean that's called a recession risk that we could -- a small event could take us off the cliff.
I mean how do you think about that and how do you plan for it? At least from my perspective it feels like markets really think there is a chance of a recession here.
And I guess while there is always the chance if there were some un-forward terrorist events somewhere or something drastic like that I really dont see that.
This feels a lot different than it did in 2001 or 2008 to me just because after a great recession weve never really had a recovery.
2010 was the only real recovery year that we had.
After that its really been the slow growth environment and I think thats kind of what we can expect over the next 2 or 3 years in the just way we ought to think about things so I don't see boom coming but by the same token I don't see a crash coming.
And I really think that the ability to perform in that kind of slow-growth environment is what's going to differentiate companies and that's the way we're playing that's the way we're thinking about things.
As you know we always tends to be conservative on sales and we're continue to do that specially in this kind of environment.
Does that help us? Yes it does.
I guess I went back and I read all the transcripts from 2008 and everybody held on held on and held on and some of the similar comments then all of a sudden it will spell off and I just -- you have to -- in our job at least you have to start scenario analysis planning here and it's feeling a little sloppy that's all.
I don't disagree with your assessment.
No I can understand the transcripts but if you look at like debt position of the say just the American consumer back then versus today very different bank capability bank reserve they're very different than what we're dealing with today.
Yes certainly on credit.
Okay I'll pass it on and I know you have lots of questions.
Thanks guys.
We will take our next question from Jeffrey Sprague with Vertical Research Partners.
Guys I wonder if we can drill a little deeper into UOP and what you're actually expecting in Q4 in terms of kind of catalyst and other activity? And then just kind of triangulate it somewhere where does that bring UOP for the year in terms of year-over-year change versus the prior year for the total year and really where I am going with that too then is thinking about your framework for 16 the reduction that you're looking for in activity is that actually an outright decline in UOP for 16 and any other color there you could give us would be helpful? Some overall comments and I'll turn it over to Tom.
I'd say you're going to see at least three different phenomenon I guess one would be what happens on orders what happens sales what happens on catalysts.
From an orders perspective that's been declining as you know and it's been a little lean here during this year and I would expect next year orders activity is going to pick up and we see that already as Tom mentioned on quotes activity.
So we expect the backlog to start building again next year.
I want to come to sales because of the lag from backlog to sales.
We expect that sales will be down next year in UOP versus this year largely because of that backlog completion the time it takes to build it back up again.
The third phenomenon catalyst we've seen that starting to pick up again which is a very good sign as you know and we also feel that there is this unrequited demand at this point for refinery reloads that refineries have been making a lot of money.
So they have been wanted to ever shutdown to reload in the preferred dwindling yields to shutting down and getting the better productivity.
In other words we wanted to produce while the timing was in their and pricing was in their favor.
And we see catalysts start to pick up when we expect that will continue through next year.
You put all those together next year we expect sales to be down but orders backlog to start building up and this is just why we have a diversified portfolio I would say diversity of opportunity for us to be able to manage that because it will come back and I have no doubt in a very good way.
Tom if you have Yes just to for a little more specific timing definitely as Dave said orders have been down particularly on the equipment and gas processing side.
But with that said there is a very strong pipeline for the fourth quarter and we kind of track the quotation activity in our salesforce.com applications and we are seeing a significant amount of inquiries and request for proposal and the like.
And so we've got a very visibility to some what could be a strong fourth quarter in terms of the backlog -- by the end of year sure it will be down year-over-year but it's not going to be earth-shattering down could be high single digits maybe slightly into double digits but that will be manageable.
On the catalyst side they're having a fantastic year and they had a fantastic orders quarter in the third quarter and it's going to lead to a really strong fourth quarter on the catalyst side.
We'll probably be mid-to-high single digit growth on the catalyst for the full year and we hope to sustain that level of sales in 2016 on the catalyst offset there is pressure that you will see a bit from the backlog I mention.
Jeff I should add on the process control side we actually expect sales will be up next year versus this year as we start to see the benefit of those megaprojects that we want.
And we'll take our next question from Joe Ritchie with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Maybe I'll follow-up on that last point on HPS because it seems like the growth in HPS clearly hasnt been as some of your competitors and so if you can comment a little bit on the share opportunities there and what if anything you're seeing in terms of pricing pressure in that market? Well.
It's a kind of a tale of two cities on the short cycle side.
We have seen the decline there that we've talked about.
On the other side looking at these big projects the mega projects where we've always said that is really where our big market is and where we do a [projectedly] well because of the complexity and the numerous amount of input and output points that you have to maintain we've always done well there and we've done really well over these last couple of years printing a lot of these big orders that are going to do very well for us and plan to see it through the future.
We put all that together while this year has been a little tougher because of that short cycle impact and the tax at the mega projects still coming right away that reverses next year and we start to see the benefit of that mega project kind of coming through.
Another thing I would add Joe you asked about pricing in process solutions.
Yes it is holding up well as you might expect with the discretionary cuts in our customers basis you'd see some pressure there but give the technology that we have really allows us to deliver some value that we are capturing pricing on.
So it's holding up fairly well in that segment.
Okay.
No it's helpful.
And maybe kind of following up a little bit on Scott's comments from earlier and asking explicitly we've been in inorganic growth you call the [indiscernible] for the last few years and your margin expansion has been really impressive.
And you've been able to kick out double-digit earnings growth as you look into '16 I mean is there an opportunity for you guys to continue to do double-digit type growth in the environment that we're in today? I want to say that certainly one of the things we're going to be looking at as we go through our AOP planning and as I probably mentioned in the past we started planning for 2016 in particular back in January of this year recognizing that the kind of macro environment we were in and that it would require more advanced planning than a lot of companies do when it comes to how far out you look.
And we're going to talk a lot more about that at the December call.
But I fully expect that in a slow growth environment we're going to continue to expand margins in a way that people are going to like.
Will take our next question from Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Thank you very much.
You gave your China numbers were pretty good.
Could you elaborate a little bit on that I mean it's probably a tale of the multiple cities and products as to what worked what didnt and how are you seeing the environment? Well you're right.
China is a bit of I think dichotomy at this stage because there is somethings that are still doing well and something's that arent doing so well and depending upon which company you talked to you can end up on either side of that.
We are one of the guys that are doing pretty well overall.
I say we are seeing the oil and gas negative impact there just like we are around the rest of the world.
But when we take a look at our Aero and Turbo business thats doing fine and when we take look at ACS in particular thats doing great still doing double-digit and as you know it's been very good for the whole year and I'd say driven by a couple of things.
One is the kind of seed planting that we've done in the past that we've talked about where we want to be the local guy and there have more mid-market product and thats really helped us to be able to expand the markets that we serve and pulling together all of the ACS stuff into a single China operation has helped us a lot there also.
But I think some of this a good chunk of it is just our increased competitiveness and the ability to go after mid-market.
On the other side of it we're still in the second point of it.
We're still in a decent spot when you take a look at the overall needs for construction and retrofit old buildings there is still a lot of upside there for us with ACS so I'd attributed it to.
Tom I don't know if there is anything you want to add? And then just as a follow-up on a little bit broader a lot of the results were driven by productivity or HOS Gold or some things like that and this has been a terrific program for a long time.
How do you modify it or change it so that people dont become complaisant? The other thing I would add is that all the new products that we had that we introduce into the systems that have higher margin rates that what we have before because of the value was able to provide to the customer through either [Huey] or combing functions or been able to give them a better price with the better performance.
That really does make a difference over time and just makes you much more competitive and a lot more profitable so that impact is there in there also.
In terms of keeping it fresh that's not that difficult I'd say for us to do and often times say the only thing that I ever worry about when it comes to Honeywell generally is that we lose our hunger.
And I don't think that's going to happen everybody still pretty hungry and wants to perform and we want that multiple premium that we think we deserve and we're going to keep doing everything we need to get it then I could promise everybody think in that way.
And we'll take our next question from Andrew Obin with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
A question on BAC conversion it has been slow for a while what do you think it really takes for to pick up and what was the last time we saw that kind of phenomenon? I think Andrew you're referring to the orders phenomenon and I talked about the backlog yes.
I think it's interesting the mandates on the federal side by the President then pretty clear to the agencies and they have gone out and done all the outfield work.
They have found the vendors they want to work with and they've held the competitions and right now they're in the state of needing to move close these out and actually get to the work implemented.
And we're seeing some delays on that as a go through the budgeting process for next year but I fully expect that is as they are preparing budgets which is on the federal side that this will be a practice they have to consider and incorporate.
And what was the last time we saw something that [ph]? I don't recall -- that meeting everything is in.
This one kind of an unusual I have to say.
We've got a little by it ourselves than it just shows there is a lot of pent up demand out there and I mean you're dealing with government so they don't always move as quickly as any of might like but that's all going to play in at some point here.
And then can I ask you sorry.
I would say it's a good deal for them.
This is one of those things where with no money out on from them they end up saving money which oftentimes takes them some work to be able to understand and convince others but once they do it generally gets there.
So I am pretty confident the stuffs going to convert it's a question of timing.
And if you can give us a preview and I know you guys are going to have a sort of a call about this but just in terms of five year plan if you look at revenues it's no surprise I think that the revenues are running at the low end of the expectations.
At the same time if I look at the margin performance it's just amazing how should we think this framework growth versus margin in the longer term and do you need to adjust people's behavior inside the Company to sort of get more margin in a lower growth environment? I am not worried about changing behaviors to get the margin rate performance because we're doing all that stuff now so it's going to work out that will work out fine.
When it comes to how do we perform versus the five year plan who knows what the economy does in 17 and 18 as I often times say the future has this odd way of unfolding differently than all of us predict and while I am predicting slow growth right now there is a chance it could go the other way around.
I don't see a recession; however there is a chance that this could just become something a lot better.
Put all that together and I would have to say the sales growth to your point that we estimated in the five year plan looks 40 at this point even with the inflexion that we're expecting.
On the margin rate side still have high expectation there and as you recall in the Investor Day one of the things we try to show was not just the 5-year plan but where we thought each business in the Company could get to.
And when you look at that youve got pretty sure we had a chart in there a couple of years ago when we did this when you look at that you see jeez there's still a lot of room to penetrate and we have higher margin rate peers in every single business that we're in and for the Company in total.
And we're going to be able to continue to drive that and everybody in the Company is driving to those long-term numbers not just to achieving the 5-year plan.
And we'll take our final question from Gautum Khanna with Cowen.
I have two questions if you wouldn't mind.
You mentioned the strong bid pipeline for the Thomas Russell [indiscernible] gas processing opportunities I was just wondering if you were to book a couple of those in next few quarters could there actually backfill the decline you are expecting at UOP next year or are these projects mostly for delivery beyond 2016 and then I had a quick one on the aftermarket as well.
I would say on the gas side to the extent that we get those quarters we can turn them pretty quickly.
Were going to stay concerned on what do we really expect when it comes to orders we were encouraged that we got a couple of orders there in this past quarter versus none in the first six months of the year and were hopeful that we land a couple of more in the fourth quarter and early next year but too early for us to commit on that.
In terms of with that alone be not have decline in EOP sales next year Id say thats unlikely.
Most likely what were going to be dealing with is sales decline when it comes to EOP.
But as you know catalysts are pretty good for us and we expect the catalyst to form well and that lets say good mix to have.
And if you could talk a little bit more about the commercial and aerospace ATR spares trends you mentioned some of the geographies were weak.
Do you think there has been destocking going on in certain geographies this year? And can you also talk about provisioning this year and perhaps next year given the A350 ramp you sided on the OE side? And thanks.
Well a couple of comments and then Ill turn it over to Tom.
Trying to understand exactly what is happening out there when it comes to spares is always worth youve probably heard me saying this before but its kind of an amorphous blob in terms of trying to understand whats in there and whats happening.
So as a result of that another reason we tend to [technical difficulty] to stay pretty concerned in terms of what we expect.
Overall though wed expect continued spares growth next year it may show as in the repair and overhaul area rather than what we might define as spares.
But overall wed expect growth to continue there and there has been some softness in China that weve talked about.
The overall way to look at it I think the indicator that I always pay attention to is whats happening on flight hours and as long as flight hours are growing it means that there is going to be a demand and pull for spares and repairs of some kind and thats the overall long term phenomena on that matters.
How it plays out in the short-term is a little tougher to figure out.
Tom? I mean you pretty much said it Dave.
The R&amp;O work that we do does consume a lot of spares and that R&amp;O business is growing very strongly.
And so when you consider them in their totality I think its very healthy and it is in line with the flight hour growth.
So thats what we expect to continue yes maybe there is some consolidation in airlines or different buying behaviors but overall we have kind of become accustomed to those and dealing with our approach.
So I expect us to be continue to be in line with the flight hours.
And provisioning do you expect any change there year-over-year? I think year-over-year it should be fairly stable.
And what percentage of the ATR aftermarket today is provisioning if you could just remind us? I dont think we go into that generally.
Nice try though [indiscernible].
That concludes todays question-and-answer session.
At this time Ill turn the floor back over to Dave Cote for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks.
Were quite pleased with our continued ability to deliver double digit earnings growth even in this slow growth economy.
And we recognize that kind of outperformance as what you have come to expect from us and we intend to continue outperforming.
The growth programs that we have funded in every business and region will continue to deliver and even more so in the future.
That growth combined with continued process improvements from things like HOS functional transformation and GOE and the like will add to our capability to margin rates and we look forward to continuing to deliver for our investors.
Thanks.
That does conclude todays teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Honeywell's Third (sic) [Fourth] Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be open for your questions following the presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Mark Macaluso Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Kyle.
Good morning and welcome to Honeywell's fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
With me here today are Chairman and CEO Dave Cote; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Tom Szlosek.
This call and webcast including any non-GAAP reconciliations are available on our website www.honeywell.com/investor.
Note that elements of this presentation contains forward-looking statements that are based on our best view of the world and of our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change and we ask that you interpret them in that light.
We identify the principal risks and uncertainties that affect our performance in our Form 10-K and other SEC filings.
This morning we'll review our financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2015 and share with you our guidance for the first quarter and full year of 2016.
Finally as always we'll leave time for your questions at the end.
So with that I'll turn the call over to Chairman and CEO Dave Cote.
Good morning everyone.
As I'm sure you've seen by now Honeywell delivered another excellent quarter capping off a terrific year in a difficult environment.
We delivered results at or above our guidance on segment margin earnings and cash flow.
Earnings of $1.58 in the fourth quarter increased 10% representing another quarter of double-digit earnings growth.
We continue to drive margin expansion up 140 basis points excluding the impact of the fourth quarter 2014 Aerospace OEM incentives.
And our free cash flow finished at $1.6 billion in the quarter up 17% at a 127% conversion.
For the full year we increased sales 1% on a core organic basis while continuing our seed planting with investments in new products and technologies high ROI CapEx and expansion of our global footprint.
We're benefiting from our balanced global portfolio diversity of opportunity and our ability to effectively manage what continues to be a slow-growth macro environment.
We also proactively funded $160 million of new restructuring in 2015 and that includes $60 million in the fourth quarter building on a healthy pipeline of new projects which will support strong margin expansion this year and beyond.
Earnings for the full year of $6.10 increased 10% representing the sixth consecutive year of double-digit growth.
Our 15% dividend rate increase marked the 11th time in the last 10 years that we've increased our dividend.
And we committed over $8 billion in capital during the year to M&amp;A and share repurchases which sets us up nicely to deliver for our shareowners in 2016 and beyond.
We're reaffirming our 2016 earnings guidance of $6.45 to $6.70 up 6% to 10% year-over-year.
We're facing challenging end markets but we have a credible and attainable plan to achieve this guidance and our planning framework has not changed.
We'll support growth wherever we have it to drive outperformance.
However we'll also be cautious in our sales planning and we'll continue to plan our costs and spending conservatively ensuring we remain flexible as a company.
We'll also maintain our seed planting investments for the future supported by our robust pipeline of funded restructuring projects and continued investment in R&amp;D.
There continues to be a lot of exciting things happening across the portfolio driving our terrific results and I can't help but highlight a few.
At the 2016 International Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas Honeywell's latest connected offerings were on display including the second generation Lyric Round Wi-Fi Thermostat.
The new Lyric Wi-Fi Water Leak and Freeze Detector was honored by USA Today with the CES 2016 Editors' Choice Award.
This great new product provides users with early alerts of water leaks and frozen pipes to avoid costly repairs.
The detector easily connects to your home Wi-Fi network and provides a simple do-it-yourself installation.
In 2015 our connectable product portfolio sales grew nearly 30% a good example of the benefits from our continued investment and development of new technologies to support growth.
Our win rate in turbos on new platforms was once again over 40%.
Honeywell turbochargers are the no-compromise solution for vehicle performance better fuel economy and compliance with emission regulations.
Sales for both diesel and gas turbos continued to grow in 2015 and we estimate that by 2020 roughly half of all cars on the road will have turbocharged engines up from one-third of all passenger vehicles today.
We expect to continue growing faster than the industry due to our differentiated technology global footprint and the benefits of the Honeywell operating system.
In November Honeywell was selected to supply its HTF series jet engines auxiliary power unit advanced cockpit technologies environmental control system and cabin pressure control system to Cessna's new Citation Longitude business jet further evidence that we continue to perform well in super mid-size cabin platforms.
Including the Cessna our HTF7000 engine is now on four of the five super mid-size platforms the others being Gulfstream the G280 the Embraer Legacy 450/500 and Bombardier Challenger 300/350.
Our platform engine has surpassed 2.4 million flight hours to-date.
On the M&amp;A front we're pleased to have closed the Elster acquisition at the end of December and the integration is underway.
Elster brings outstanding technologies including software strong well-recognized brands energy efficiency know-how and a global presence to Honeywell in ACS.
We look forward to updating you on our integration progress at our Investor Day in March.
Earlier this month we acquired the remaining 30% stake in UOP Russell a global leader in modular gas processing technology and equipment.
One of our objectives when we acquired the first 70% was to leverage the Honeywell global footprint to take this principally domestic focused modular technology to markets outside the U.S.
This premise is now materializing.
As an example in the fourth quarter PV Gas Vietnam's primary gas provider selected UOP Russell's modular gas processing plant to separate liquefied petroleum gas or LPG from natural gas at its facility near the southern tip of Vietnam.
In addition HPS will serve as the integrated main automation contractor or I-MAC and supply the integrated controls and safety systems for the facility and terminal.
And we repurchased close to $2 billion in Honeywell shares during the year at attractive prices which is nearly double the rate at 2014.
We have and will continue to be opportunistic when it comes to share repurchases which allows us to preserve our balance sheet firepower for repurchases or M&amp;A as opportunities present themselves.
And you can expect another terrific year for capital deployment in 2016.
You can expect to see lots of exciting innovations at our Investor Day on March 2 where each of the businesses will highlight a number of new products and roadmaps for future growth and margin expansion.
We also plan to share how software is evolving throughout the organization which we believe is a key differentiator particularly across the industrial space.
We held our annual senior leadership meeting earlier this month and I can tell you that each of the businesses are hard at work identifying new and innovative breakthroughs to drive further growth.
Our seed planting for the future great positions in good industries diversity of opportunity and strength of execution will allow us to deliver on our long-term targets and continue to outperform over the long-term.
Needless to say as we continue to talk amongst ourselves this is an exciting time to be at Honeywell.
So with that I'll turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Dave and good morning everyone.
Dave mentioned our deployment of $8 billion in shareowner capital for 2015.
That actually excludes $2 billion in dividends; and just to remind you we've raised our dividend rate in the fourth quarter by 15%.
The biggest component of the $8 billion is M&amp;A.
Slide four summarizes each of the deals all of which have closed with the exception of COM DEV which is expected to close imminently.
We've previously articulated the rationale for each deal and we're pleased with the diversity of the investment.
So three of the deals are for Aero two for ACS and three for PMT spreading the wealth so to speak.
You'll also notice the technology focus.
For example the Elster metering and analytics the COM DEV space communications technologies and the Satcom1 aerospace connectivity software.
We also view each of these acquisitions as a great opportunity to deploy HOS goal to drive new growth and greater profitability while building on our great positions in good industries across the portfolio.
We expect the acquisitions will generate strong future returns for our shareowners consistent with Honeywell's track record and we're excited about the M&amp;A momentum as we head into 2016 as Dave mentioned.
Slide five shows the fourth quarter results.
Overall our results met or exceeded the guidance we provided in December.
Sales of $10 billion were flat on a core organic basis slightly better than what we estimated during outlook call largely because of our conservative planning.
So we had improvements in Commercial Aero OE in both ATR and BGA UOP catalyst shipments Process Solution Services and the America's Fire and Security Distribution drove the stronger finish.
The growth in these areas helped to mitigate the challenges we have in the oil and gas related businesses.
On a reported basis the sales decline in the fourth quarter was driven by the stronger U.S.
dollar and the lower pass-through pricing in Resins and Chemicals offset by the absence of the aerospace OEM incentive in the fourth quarter of 2014 which as you recall impacted both sales and segment profit in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Segment profit up 15% with segment margins expanding 290 basis points to 18.8% or 140 basis points when you exclude those OEM incentives.
We drove profit growth and margin expansion in each of our three SBGs so again a balanced contribution across the portfolio.
I'll talk more about segment margin in a minute.
Items below segment profit were as expected.
We did see higher pension income as a result of our fourth quarter adoption of the spot rate approach to setting our discount rate.
The impact however was more than offset by about $60 million of new restructuring projects which position us well for continued margin expansion.
Earnings per share excluding pension mark-to-market adjustment were $1.58 and increased 10% from 2014 again in line with our guidance.
The 2015 pension mark-to-market adjustment was approximately $67 million unfavorable at $0.05 a share principally driven by our U.S.
non-qualified plan versus $249 million also unfavorable in 2014 or $0.23 a share.
So as a result the fourth quarter reported earnings per share of $1.53 were up 28% from $1.20 last year.
Free cash flow in the quarter $1.6 billion was up 17% versus 2014 with conversion at 127%.
We had a bigger improvement in working capital and lower cash taxes than what we anticipated in our outlook call.
So overall another strong quarter of margin expansion double-digit earnings growth and strong cash flow.
Let me move to slide six to provide more detail on segment margin expansion with a slide that you're familiar with.
As we've spoken about throughout 2015 our operating initiatives continue to drive segment growth led by the continued deployment of HOS Gold.
We generated 100 point basis operational improvement in the quarter and that follows 140 basis points in the first quarter 110 basis points in the second quarter and 140 basis points in the third quarter.
We've got attractive products with differentiated technologies and a software focus.
Our factories and supply chains are maturing our back office continues to get more efficient and we continue to manage our indirect spend stringently.
Previously funded restructuring as well as new restructuring actions have also enabled us to continue improving our overall cost position and yet we believe there is more room to improve.
The remaining 190 basis points of improvement came from our foreign currency hedging approach lower raw materials pass-through pricing in Resins and Chemicals and the absence of the fourth quarter OEM incentives.
In 2015 we outpaced our five-year plan targets of 45 basis points to 75 basis points of segment margin expansion and we expect that the permanent improvements to our supply chain footprint and back office through the deployment of HOS Gold will continue to drive margin expansion in 2016 2017 and beyond.
Let's move to slide seven and discuss the Aerospace results.
Sales for the quarter were up 2% on a core organic basis in line with our expectations.
Commercial OE sales increased by 9% on a core organic basis driven by the third consecutive quarter of double-digit growth in business and general aviation engine shipments and higher shipments to large OEMs in air transport.
As Dave mentioned earlier we continue to win on super mid-size business jet platforms.
We also experienced good growth on key air transport platforms including the Boeing 737 and 787 and Airbus A320 and A350 as we had anticipated.
On a reported basis commercial OE sales increased 45% again reflecting the absence of the OEM incentives that we recorded in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Commercial aftermarket sales up 3% on a core organic basis driven by robust repair and overhaul activities.
R&amp;O sales were up high single-digit in the quarter and have improved sequentially throughout 2015.
On the spare side we saw an increase in airline spares growth for both mechanical and avionic products.
BGA RMUs or retrofit modifications and upgrades grew double-digit in the fourth quarter as we expected.
Spares were soft in other parts of BGA due to the timing of channel provisioning.
Defense &amp; Space sales declined 1% on a core organic basis driven by a number of program completions and project timing in our U.S.
businesses.
We saw strong growth in our international business on a sequential basis but year-over-year growth was only 1% due to a difficult prior-year comparison.
Just to remind you the international business grew 17% in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Defense &amp; Space finished 2015 approximately flat and we expect growth across all Defense &amp; Space segments in 2016.
Finally Transportation System sales increased 1% on a core organic basis due to new platform launches and continued volume growth in both diesel and gas light vehicle applications.
Our light vehicle diesel business grew in both Europe and North America while we saw double-digit growth in light vehicle gas in Europe and China.
This was partially offset by lower commercial vehicle volumes reflecting the soft conditions faced by our on-highway and off-highway commercial vehicle global OEM customers.
On a reported basis TS sales declined 10% reflecting the stronger U.S.
dollar.
Aerospace segment margin expanded 420 basis points or 50 basis points if you again exclude the OEM incentives.
This was driven by productivity net of inflation commercial excellence and the favorable impact from our foreign currency hedges partially offset by the margin impact of higher OE shipments and the continued investments for growth.
Let's turn to the ACS results on slide eight.
In ACS Alex and his team continued to position the portfolio for better and more profitable growth.
With the closing of Elster the newly acquired thermal solutions combustion and gas electricity and water metering businesses will be integrated into our Environmental &amp; Energy Solutions business unit which includes the legacy ECC business.
The broader scope of this new business unit will position us for accelerated growth in both existing markets and attractive new adjacencies.
We've seen similar commercial benefits from a combination of our security and fire businesses into Honeywell Security and Fire.
In the fourth quarter ACS sales were flat on a core organic basis.
Sales by energy safety and security so the products business has declined 1% on a core organic basis.
We saw continued strength in Security and Fire globally another quarter of double-digit growth in China.
The investments we've made in China continue to drive results and we expect similar growth in 2016.
And as Dave mentioned sales of our connected products grew nearly 30% in 2015 as the continued growth following the launch of our new Lyric product offering.
These improvements were offset by lower volume in Sensing and Productivity Solutions as we lapped the benefits of the U.S.
Postal Service win in our Mobility business as well as by declines in Industrial Safety due principally to oil and gas related discretionary spending cuts.
Building Solutions and Distribution sales were up 3% on a core organic basis in the fourth quarter.
We continued to see strength in the Americas distribution business where sales growth improved sequentially every quarter in 2015 exiting the year up double-digit in the fourth quarter.
This growth was partially offset by a decline in Building Solutions where we continue to experience softness in the energy retrofit business and slower backlog conversion.
ACS margins expanded 70 basis points to 16.6% in the quarter capping off another terrific year.
The business continues to benefit from significant productivity improvements net of inflation as well as from execution of restructuring actions.
At the same time we've maintained our investments for growth.
We've added resources in sales marketing and engineering locally to drive further acceleration in our high growth regions as well as in our connected product offerings.
I'm now on slide nine to discuss PMT results.
PMT sales declined 4% on a core organic basis while segment margin expansion was again robust.
And orders growth for the quarter was positive led by very strong orders in UOP.
Let's take it business by business starting with UOP.
Sales were down 10% on a core organic basis driven by lower gas processing equipment and licensing sales partially offset by strong catalyst demand.
Catalyst shipments were up significantly in the fourth quarter driven by new petrochemical units and refining reloads.
Furthermore we recorded nearly $1 billion in orders in the fourth quarter with growth across the entire UOP portfolio including another international gas processing win.
This brings UOP's book-to-bill ratio for the year to approximately 0.95 not bad in this environment and we expect a portion of the UOP orders to convert in 2016 which would partially mitigate the market softness.
In Process Solutions core organic sales were flat.
We finished the December better than anticipated driven by growth in services and projects due to an uptick in customer spend at year-end offset by high single-digit declines in the field instrumentation sales.
The HPS projects and services backlogs remained solid and we continue to see increased demand for our Assurance 360 service partnership offering which is a multi-year agreement to maintain support and optimize the performance of Honeywell control systems.
So while our short cycle field instrumentation business basically continued headwinds of the industry we are seeing improvements in our higher margin software and service businesses.
Advanced Materials sales down 3% on a core organic basis due to volume declines in resins and chemicals and specialty products partially offset by flooring product sales which again increased due to continued demand for Solstice low global warming refrigerant and insulation products.
Volumes in Resins and Chemicals in particular were adversely impacted by unplanned and planned outages in the quarter.
On a reported basis Advanced Materials sales declined 15% primarily due to the impact of the lower pass-through pricing in Resins and Chemicals as we've highlighted previously.
PMT segment margins up 380 basis points to 20.3% driven by significant productivity actions net of inflation commercial excellence the favorable impact of raw materials pass-through pricing in Resins and Chemicals and a heavier weighting of UOP catalyst sales.
PMT continues to aggressively pursue further cost reduction opportunities which help support further margin expansion in this slow-growth environment.
I'm now on slide 10 to recap the full year 2015 results.
Sales increased 1% on a core organic basis with good growth in our short cycle ESS and Transportation Systems businesses strong engine shipments in BGA OE and continued growth from the ramp-up of our Solstice offering in flooring products.
The reported sales decline reflects the unfavorable impact of foreign currency the Friction Materials divestiture and lower pass-through pricing in Resins and Chemicals offset by the favorable year-over-year impact of the OEM incentives which did not repeat in 2015.
Segment profits increased 8% with margins expanding 220 basis points.
110 basis points of the expansion was driven by the operational improvements in each of the businesses as we've discussed throughout 2015.
All of this resulted in earnings of $6.10 up 10% clearly in the top quartile of our industrial peer group.
And as Dave mentioned this represents our sixth consecutive year of double-digit earnings growth.
Reported EPS for the year increased 13% reflecting the decline in the unfavorable pension mark-to-market adjustment that I mentioned earlier.
Finally free cash flow of $4.4 billion increased 11% exceeding the high end of our guidance range largely driven by improved working capital performance.
Our 91% free cash flow conversion was dilutive by our investment of over $1 billion attractive high ROI CapEx in 2015 to support future growth.
Adjusting to our long-term reinvestment ratio of one times depreciation would yield approximately 100% free cash flow conversion which we expect to reach on a run rate basis by the end of 2017.
Slide 11 provides a recap for the full year by business.
The results are very consistent with our guidance.
Each of our three segments generated triple-digit margin expansion in a challenging market environment.
At the same time we've maintained our investments in new products high-growth regions and restructuring across the portfolio to ensure growth and productivity.
With 2015 behind us let's take a quick look at our end markets as we head into 2016.
On page 12 there's no change in our assessment of the conditions in the end markets we serve and no change to our 2016 guidance that we provided in December.
We continue to expect the slower global growth environment to persist in 2016.
However our portfolio with its mix of short and long cycle businesses balanced participation in numerous global markets and diversified offerings for consumers commercial buildings industrial complexes and governments will help us to grow even in slower environments.
Our end markets in total are generally stable.
We continue to actively monitor the dynamics in our oil and gas businesses particularly on the exploration and production side.
The challenging conditions we see associated with lower oil and gas prices was contemplated in our 2016 outlook.
For Honeywell this is somewhat tempered by the healthy demand for the output for refining and petrochemical plant operators which bodes well in the long term for the mid- and downstream offerings of HPS and UOP and that includes catalysts advanced solutions and other aftermarket offerings.
In the event conditions do continue to deteriorate we have the flexibility to further adjust operating costs fairly quickly as well as other contingencies to help us mitigate market headwinds.
As we look across the other end markets which make up over 85% of our total portfolio we expect the demand environment to remain stable.
In non-resi construction we expect a similar environment as 2015.
The commercial aftermarket industry will continue to grow albeit at a slightly slower pace as flight hours remain positive overall but increased airline efficiency and the retirement of older aircraft will tamper aftermarket demand.
International defense spending and increasing U.S.
DoD budgets will make the Defense &amp; Space environment attractive.
On autos we have attractive and competitive turbocharger offerings which continue to manifest themselves in our strong win rates.
As Dave noted TS won over 40% of all new launches in 2015 grew the business in both gas and diesel and continues to differentiate through breakthrough innovation and technologies.
Further turbo penetration continues to improve and we're growing faster than the market.
Our planning approach for 2016 remains intact.
We'll support growth where we see opportunities to outperform emphasizing those areas where a clear path to growth exists like high-growth regions UOP catalysts and flooring products.
We'll be cautious in our sales planning in the end markets where we see uncertainty in 2016 and we'll make shorter-term adjustments to cost levels should softer end markets dictate.
We also continue to plan our costs and spending conservatively with a strong emphasis to drive productivity in all of our cost categories while remaining flexible as a company.
Of course we will continue our seed planting investments to create mid- to longer-term opportunities.
This includes R&amp;D and marketing investments but also further deployment of shareowner capital opportunistically.
Let's move to slide 13 to more specifically discuss each of our businesses for 2016.
The green and red abbreviations on this page represent our full year 2016 core organic sales growth expectations for each business.
Let me start with Commercial OE.
Excluding the OEM incentives the business is expected to grow low single-digit in 2016.
The demand in ATR and BGA continues to be strong and we'll see the new wins we've communicated drive volume growth particularly in the second half of the year.
However as previously communicated the OEM incentives will dilute these ongoing growth rates in our ATR business.
As a reminder we expense these incentives as incurred unlike many of our competitors who capitalize and amortize them over the life of the program.
On the commercial aftermarket side we expect the strong R&amp;O momentum to continue.
Additionally while it's been up against a difficult year on RMU sales comparisons for most of 2015 and BGA we're expecting the business to return to growth in 2016 as it did in the fourth quarter.
All the businesses in Defense &amp; Space so the U.S.
DoD the services in the U.S.
and international are expected to grow in 2016 as the market demand dynamics improve.
In TS the growth will also continue supported by a strong backlog of new wins.
And while the commercial vehicles market for our technologies have been slow particularly in China we anticipate a moderation in the declines for 2016.
We expect low single digit growth in ACS across both the products and the BSD portfolio driven by continued momentum in security and fire products and distribution and above-market growth in China offset by declines related to the completion of large projects in S&amp;PS.
In PMT our previously communicated growth expectations remain.
As we've highlighted on numerous occasions UOP short cycle catalyst business tends to be very lumpy quarter-to-quarter and its growth in the fourth quarter of 2015 was massive capping off a double-digit growth year for that business.
This sets up a challenging first quarter and full-year 2016 which along with the tough year-over-year comparisons in gas processing drive our expectation that UOP will be down mid-single digit in 2016.
So on balance no change to our end market outlook but we continue to monitor the landscape as we move into the first quarter.
And speaking of the first quarter I'm on slide 14 with a preview.
Relative to foreign exchange our Q1 sales estimates contemplates our full year planning exchanges; so for example $1 per euro.
However for operating profit as we've communicated we are hedged.
So for the euro as an example our estimates reflect our $1.10 per euro hedge rate.
For total Honeywell we're expecting first quarter sales of $9.2 billion to $9.4 billion so that's flat to up 2% reported or down 2% to flat on a core organic basis.
Segment margins are expected to be up 70 basis points to 90 basis points excluding M&amp;A or down 20 basis points to 40 basis points reported.
EPS is expected to be $1.48 to $1.53 and that's up 5% to 9% versus 2015 with a tax rate at 26.5%.
So starting with Aerospace sales are expected to be up 1% to 2% on a core organic basis.
In commercial OE we're expecting sales to be down mid-single digit driven by the impact of the OEM incentives which we previewed in our December outlook call.
Excluding the incentives commercial OE is expected to be up low single digit with a ramp up on key platforms in air transport partially offset by regional declines and slowing growth in BGA following a terrific 2015.
Commercial aftermarket sales are expected to grow low single-digit with higher volume in airline repair and overhaul activity and improvement in BGA RMU sales.
Defense &amp; Space sales are expected to be up low single-digit with higher sales for the U.S.
government partially offset by tough prior year comparisons in the international business as larger projects roll-off.
In Transportation Systems sales are expected to be up mid-single digit with strong growth across both diesel and gas light vehicle applications.
Commercial vehicles which represent roughly 15% of the TS portfolio continue to face headwinds from a down-market but we expect the declines to moderate in the second half of 2015.
As for Aerospace margins we expect an increase of 100 basis points to 120 basis points excluding M&amp;A.
ACS sales are expected to be up 2% to 3% on a core organic basis or up 11% to 12% reported driven by the addition of Elster.
Both ESS and BSD are expected to grow low single-digit on a core organic basis.
We expect the momentum in our security and fire businesses and in our high-growth regions to continue heading into 2016.
S&amp;PS growth will be slower with the completion of the U.S.
Postal Service deployment and we expect continued oil and gas related headwinds in Industrial Safety.
In BSD we're expecting similar trends to what we've seen in recent quarters with strength in America's distribution offset by weakness in the U.S.
energy retrofit business within Building Solutions.
As I mentioned back in October we've been selected on a number of competitive RFPs but the pace of conversion from wins into orders and then eventually into revenue is slow.
Excluding M&amp;A margins are expected to improve 130 basis points to 160 basis points in ACS driven by continued productivity and commercial excellence.
Due to acquisition dilution the ACS margin rate in the first quarter is expected to be down 50 basis points to 80 basis points.
In PMT sales are expected to be down 11% to 13% on both reported and core organic basis.
We contemplated this slow first quarter in the guidance we provided during our December outlook call.
UOP is expected to be down significantly driven primarily by continued declines in gas processing and lower catalyst sales as I mentioned.
Sales in our catalyst business were very strong in 2015 but it's not unusual to see variations as we've experienced in prior years.
We'll see these trends again in the first quarter in particular but expect that for the full year 2016 the catalyst demand will again be strong.
HPS sales are expected to be down slightly.
In 2014 and 2015 we won a number of significant global mega projects where we serve as the main contractor providing control and safety solutions for large installations.
These will begin to convert in 2016 but the resulting sales growth will be more than offset by continued declines in sales of field instrumentation products.
Advanced Materials sales are expected to be up high single-digit driven by flooring products Solstice sales as well as higher production volumes in Resins and Chemicals.
PMT segment margins are expected to be down 90 basis points to 110 basis points or down 40 basis points to 60 basis points excluding M&amp;A with the dilution coming from sales declines in our petrochemicals catalyst business.
Let me move to slide 15 for the 2016 financial guidance for the full year.
So consistent with our December call we expect total Honeywell sales in the range of $39.9 billion to $40.9 billion up 1% to 2% on a core organic basis modestly better than our Q1 expectations which as you've seen are weighed down by the normal ongoing lumpiness in UOP.
Reported sales growth will be higher in the range of 3% to 6% primarily due to the favorable impact of M&amp;A most notably Elster.
Segment margin expansion is expected to be 10 basis points to 50 basis points or 80 basis points to 110 basis points excluding M&amp;A.
We're confident in our earnings range of $6.45 to $6.70 representing 6% to 10% growth versus 2015.
The full year growth linearity remains in line with prior years and is based on an expected full year tax rate of 26.5% with share count held flat to the 2015 full year weighted average.
Of course we'll continue to be opportunistic about share repurchase opportunities particularly in these volatile markets.
Free cash flow is expected to be up in a range of $4.6 billion to $4.8 billion.
That's a 5% to 10% increase from 2015 with CapEx investments roughly flat at approximately $1.1 billion.
This will drive free cash flow conversion of approximately 90%.
Let me move to slide 16 for a quick summary before turning it back to Mark for Q&amp;A.
In 2015 we again demonstrated that Honeywell can deliver on its commitments even in its slow-growth environment.
We met or exceeded our margin expansion earnings growth and free cash flow targets while investing for future growth through enhanced research and development continued investment in CapEx and funding of business restructuring and we put to work some sizable amounts of shareowner capital which will pave the way for future earnings and cash growth.
As we turn our attention to 2016 we're planning for more of the same: modest top line growth with strong margin expansion and earnings and cash growth.
We have a credible and attainable 2016 plan based on the tenets that Dave mentioned of supporting growth being cautious on sales planning costs and spending conservatively and continued seed planning.
In summary we're excited and prepared for 2016.
Our management team is focused on execution as we head into year three of our five-year plan and we look forward to sharing more at our March 2 investor conference.
With that Mark let's move to Q&amp;A.
Thanks Tom.
Operator please open the line for questions.
Thank you.
The floor is now open for questions.
And we will take our first question from Scott Davis from Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning guys.
Hey Scott.
Good morning Scott.
Inc.</span></strong> Dave you're not a bad CEO.
We'll give you a nod.
That's appreciated.
It only took me 14 years to get it.
Inc.</span></strong> Well I don't know if you're worth $25 million but if you can throw a pitch 100 miles per hour maybe.
More.
I'm worth more.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Good.
Well can I answer your phones for you? Maybe I'd get a cut of that.
But anyways not much really to pick on on the quarter.
My biggest question really the Elster deal looks  I mean I think it was a really interesting transaction and the markets have gone maybe the direction that you probably wanted them to go the last couple of years.
You've had dry powder but things have been a little pricey.
I mean is there  are there other Elster-ish type deals out there that you are starting to see? I mean where  you've always had some confidence in M&amp;A but a lot of the deals have been smaller.
Are there bigger deals out there that are interesting you feel like you're getting down into the right price? Well there's always it's going to sound like a repeat of an answer but it is true.
We always have a pretty full pipeline that we're working and there's some bigger stuff some smaller stuff and you just never know when they're going to hit.
You just don't and you've heard me say this before but it's like working in a retail store.
You open up at 10 O'clock and nobody shows up till 2:30 and then five people come in the door at the same time.
It just works that way.
For last year a lot of that came together in a very good way and we're hopeful that it can continue again this year but it's not one of those things you can guarantee because we are going to stay very disciplined.
It's the same rigor that we've used in the past we stick with and I think my old team would tell you that I paid personal attention to every single one of these things on a nonbinding basis a binding basis the integration reviews with as much vigor as I did 13 years ago.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Makes sense.
Moving more specifically I think the one area that I've always struggled to model with you guys is PMT and help us get a little bit more comfortable around UOP.
I mean if your core was down 10 and catalysts were strong that implies the basic what I'll call the consulting business and licensing business must've been down a lot.
What's your confidence that that stuff comes back and catalysts don't normalize? Particularly you've seen the GDP numbers out of the U.S.
today.
I mean it's  you may have another tough year in front of us.
I can't imagine catalyst growth can stay incredibly strong forever so help us get a little bit more confidence around that because I think it's just impossible for us to know.
Yeah.
We'll talk more about this at Investor Day but you can expect that the catalysts are going to continue to do well and Tom provided you some of the data and can provide more color but catalysts will continue to do well because there's still usage out there and there's still demand for refined product.
That's not going away.
And that's really where demand comes from for us on the catalyst side.
You're also going to hear more about the Parex cycle and how that changes.
It tends to go through cycles and we'll be coming up on a new cycle for Parex as we get towards the end of this year and into next year.
When it comes to new projects yeah you're right there wasn't as much as many new projects put on the board as they were in prior years but we actually took a lot of those hits last year.
So as we start looking at kind of the comparables as you go from one year to another we should start seeing that coming out I'd say again towards the end of this year and more into next year.
So while it's been a difficult transition it helps for us that this diversity of opportunity you hear me talk about where oil and gas is only about 13% in total so it's been manageable not easy but manageable and I think you're going see UOP getting onto a growth path again as we get into next year.
So Tom I don't know if there's anything you want to add.
Yeah.
Just to put a little more color on what Dave said I think the orders and backlog are holding up okay in what is a rough environment.
As I mentioned UOP orders were up over 50% in the fourth quarter and that was across all their business lines so equipment licensing gas and catalysts.
So it's  and the backlog itself is held up pretty well.
I mentioned 0.95 book-to-bill ratio.
I mean the backlog is down mid-single digits is the way I would characterize it.
When you talk to Rajiv (41:51) and the team they are very excited about what's going on in chemicals and petrochemical catalysts in particular.
We are the clear leader in that space so when you think about aromatics and olefins and other things where we have a significant amount of presence it's a big opportunity for us.
So overall I think it's  while we'll be continuing to be lumpy the prospects are good.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you guys.
Good luck.
Thanks Scott.
Thanks.
And we'll take our next question from John Inch with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Hey John.
Inc.</span></strong> David it's nice to see a company report a quarter that isn't padded by 5% tax rates and below the line parlor tricks.
Well thank you.
As you know I've been advocating for a long time that doing well in operations should make a difference.
Operating earnings matter.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Tom what was commercial vehicle on the light side if you exclude I'm sorry what was Turbo on the light side if you exclude commercial vehicle? What was the growth rate there? It was roughly mid-single digit growth.
Inc.</span></strong> So I guess my question is if you think of Turbo right and the penetration you guys just articulated getting to the 50% you would think this business should be pretty well-positioned to start to put up I think once you get over the commercial vehicle headwinds and double-digit top line if you look back over time you've always had this very favorable penetration right on gasoline side.
You haven't really ever realized that.
I think you maybe did it a bit in 2013.
But just could you talk to your confidence level or how we should be thinking about the run rate for Turbo kind of post commercial vehicle? Like why can't this be a really high growth segment and driver of profit for Honeywell? Yeah.
That's the whole point.
You hit it exactly right.
Go ahead Tom sorry.
Hey John.
You did say double-digit top line growth.
I wouldn't  while I appreciate that sentiment I wouldn't go quite that far.
But it is a very strong they do have very strong prospects.
The position is very good and our global presence I mean where we are versus where our customers are positions us very nicely and the business has  it's probably the best run supply chain that we have.
So as long as the car market remains intact and there's orders we're going to be on those platforms and no matter who the OEM is with our technology and with our ability to deliver.
It's going to be very good growth.
I can understand Tom's reticence of the double-digit but I would say at the end of the day there are several phenomenon.
One the commercial market  both the commercial market decline and currency are masking the growth that we're getting in say PV side both gas and diesel.
That's going to continue and when commercial goes the other way and you don't have an offset impact to currency I think you're going to say it looks pretty darn good.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
I was literally taking your 40% win rate times the global auto sales times 50% delta right and then just sort of assuming currency and the commercial vehicle didn't factor in it.
Let's put it this way.
It's a pretty high growth number if you sort of point that out.
Just as a follow-up this merger between Johnson Controls and Tyco JCI bought York and you guys at the time pretty much downplayed the significance of why you would not follow in those footsteps.
Does this merger David do you think give you an opportunity to take some market share here? I don't know about taking market share so much because we really don't compete with them all that much.
There's maybe a couple of places that we do but there's not  the biggest overlap is really just kind of the service side of this the Honeywell Building Solutions.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
So because there's not a big overlap between us I wouldn't say there's a big share opportunity there for us.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
But what about then doing a bigger deal? Does that I mean are you still sort of wed to this notion that you've got to really have it  be able to be ring fenced and bolted on? Even though Elster I realize is bigger but you know I mean a bigger deal so comparables I guess to the significance of JCI and Tyco? You mean do I think I need to do something that's foreign? Inc.</span></strong> I think the angle is in a  yeah I think the angle is in a very slow growth world which you've articulated many times.
Those two companies have decided that it makes sense to get together to try and drive some cost synergy or whatever right? So I'm wondering about your own thinking towards possibly or the prospects of maybe doing a bigger deal perhaps because of the macro and what you're seeing with respect to other industrial companies.
That was the question.
No.
I don't feel compelled to do it because somebody else is.
And I feel like we're big enough and we're going to perform very well on our own.
That being said as you know many times I've said I'll never say never to doing something large even though it hasn't happened in 14 years because you never know when that opportunity presents itself but so I'm still open to it I guess but it's got to be a smart deal for own share owners otherwise we're going to do very well on our own.
I don't feel like we need a lot of big help anywhere.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thanks much.
We will take our next question from Joseph Ritchie from Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Hey Joe.
So Dave nice quarter.
It's got to make you feel a little bit better about the Pats' loss last week.
Oh geez.
Why'd you have to put it that way? Sorry.
I had to dig a little bit.
Let me start on that  let me kind of start on a near-term question.
Last year I recall January getting off to a really slow start.
It surprised you.
It surprised us.
I think it was down 8%.
Maybe talk a little bit about just your quoting activity on the short cycle businesses over December/January and how that's trending versus your expectations.
Right now I'd have to say it feels just fine.
I know last year we got surprised the other way.
This year we're not getting surprised.
But it's three weeks so who can tell how the whole thing's going to go? But it's  I would say we're not having to deal with the same kind of negative surprise we had last year.
Okay.
All right.
No that's helpful.
I guess maybe one of the things that we've been talking to investors a lot about recently with the Boeing results earlier this week was just the potentially weakening longer-term production schedule at Boeing.
I'm just curious does that change your long-term outlook at all on Commercial OE? Or how are you guys thinking about that today? No it doesn't really have any effect on us.
And you've probably heard me say in the past this diversity of opportunity that we talk about for the company in total applies to our Aerospace business also.
We're tied to basically everybody.
And if you take a look at what's happening in the aerospace industry the biggest thing for us is that flight hours increase.
And flight hours last year were up 4% or 5%.
They're likely to be up 4% to 6% again this year.
And the big thing is that planes fly and as long as they fly and as long as there's a need for the kind of upgrades that we keep talking about and as long as the technology keeps progressing towards this kind of connectivity and the need for airlines and passengers to just be connected better than they have in the past those are all good phenomena for us.
So no it doesn't really have an effect on us.
The big thing is flight hours continuing to grow and the technology especially on the software and connectivity side continuing to develop.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Maybe one last question for Tom just going back to PMT for a second it seems like you're starting off the year pretty slow with organic growth expected to be down 11% to 13%.
The guide for the year I think is down 1% to plus 1%.
So I fully recognize the comps are tough in the first quarter but maybe talk a little bit more about the confidence and the implied ramp for the rest of the year especially given the catalyst shipments the fact that backlog was up in Process.
Just curious to hear some thoughts there.
It's a good question.
I mean as we  and we gave you our guidance for the full year on both UOP HPS and the like.
And given the backlog dynamics that we talked about as well as the visibility that we have into the service bank and HPS in particular we're still confident in the full year outlook.
The first quarter is really a factor of this timing and particularly in UOP catalysts.
I mean we were  we had a strong first quarter in 2015 and we had a huge fourth quarter in 2015.
So both of those kind of play on the impact for  on the overall PMT.
So minus 11% to minus 13% for the first quarter yeah but still confident in the overall outlook as roughly flat.
Yeah Tom if I could add the other thing to point out Joe is that our gas processing business in 1Q of last year had just a fantastic quarter; so we also have a little bit of a comp issue just in 1Q and that'll ease through the rest of the year.
Cool.
Thanks guys.
Great quarter.
Thanks.
And we'll take our next question from Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Thank you very much.
I want to also stay with Aerospace.
I mean the deliveries at Boeing are really more due to timing because they're building new planes for R&amp;D.
It has no demand impact.
But you have a lot of STC opportunities and GX which you've talked about Dave a little bit and some international.
Could you talk for a moment a little bit about some of these where you are in terms of getting the customers to sign up for these processes because it really is game-changing? Are you talking about on the connectivity GX side that kind of thing? Absolutely.
And then also what you're doing still with COM DEV and  if you can.
I know it hasn't closed but to the degree that that's possible please.
Yeah I can't put any numbers on it at this point but so far  and I think you'll get some of this at Investor Day  Tim's pretty excited about what he's seeing the sign up rate and the speed with which they're able to acquire new customers here because the value that Tim's able to add through is connectivity and the services and now we're going to be able to expand that with Satcom1 Aviaso and COM DEV along with the technologies we acquired with EMS.
He's pretty pumped up about where he's going.
So so far yeah quite good.
And then just a follow-up a little bit with the portfolio.
I mean international had a great year last year with some of the expansion.
You've got sort of a lot of nice mid-engine  midsize capability engines and we've seen what you've done in bizjets.
Where else can you do some things in the international market? Well a lot of places.
And that's been one of I guess Tim's  one of Tim's big insights as simple as it sounds is 90% of life is showing up; and just Tim showing up in a lot of these places that we didn't in the past is making a hell of a difference.
So that's going to continue around the world.
And then finally Tom you have these significant incentives.
Are they pretty evenly spread throughout the year this year? Or is there one quarter we should be aware of as being a little bit lumpy? Yeah.
No.
They're pretty much throughout the year.
Thank you gentleman.
Thank you Howard.
We'll take our next question from Jeffrey Sprague with Vertical Research Partners.
Thank you.
Good morning gentleman.
Hey Jeff.
How's it going? Quite well actually.
Pretty well so far it seems.
Yeah.
It looks pretty good.
Jeff I'm a little  while you got to like the market reaction I got to admit I'm still a little surprised that after 14 years people are surprised by us doing what we say.
Yeah I don't know why that is Dave.
You only have to hit me over the head once or twice and I get it.
14 times I don't need.
So hey the margin execution as always is stellar.
What really surprised me a little bit were the ACS margins were better than I thought again maybe just my modeling error but was there no kind of Elster purchase accounting noise or something that pressured the Q4 numbers? I thought with the late close maybe you'd have some inventory step-ups something like that in the quarter.
No.
I mean we closed on December 27 and virtually very little commercial activity.
So we did do whatever pro rata portion of the purchase accounting that was required but it was de minimis.
Okay.
Could you speak to how Elster actually performed in Q4 what the organic pro forma growth rate looked like and how you see it growing in 2016? Yeah.
I mean I can't speak to the details of Q4 but as we look forward in 2016 Jeff it's at or better than what we've modeled in our TVA.
I mean the prospects on the metering side in particular as the rollouts continue to occur in outside of the U.S.
across all three of the metering platforms are very exciting for us.
So you can think about mid-single-digit growth there for us.
And also the gas combustion that's going into ECC is also holding up in terms of what our expectations were for 2016.
So so far so good.
I mean we're early days in the integration so a lot more work to do but it's consistent with what we had expected.
Well it sounds like there could be a little bit more upside in that accretion plan for 2016 would be a fair assumption? I could tell you we're pushing all the acquisitions to do even better in 2016.
Right as we'd expect.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks Jeff.
We will take our next question from Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
Hey Steve.
Hey Steve.
Listening to Danny Boy on the music pre-conference call and hopefully that's not a commentary on your tenure there in the near-term.
Hopefully you're going to be around for a little bit longer.
These are decent results.
(57:35) you didn't have to listen to Tom singing it.
There's been a lot of big numbers floating around out there on the capacity to do deals.
I know you guys have said in your formal commentary from your Investor Day it's I don't know something like $10 billion.
I think you made a comment on Bloomberg that it was like $20 billion or something like that $15 billion to $20 billion.
Can you just clear the air on if something big came up kind of how far what do you think your capacity is from a ratings agency perspective? How far would you be willing to go as far as capital deployment call it over the next couple of years? What is that number? Well as we tried to show in the Investor Day a couple of years ago I used the $10 billion as just an example because I felt like in our previous five-year plan we got no credit for what we could do there even though I tried to talk about how much cash capability we had ahead of us.
And if you recall I said at the time in there that we had something like $20 billion to $30 billion in capacity over the next five years when you looked at cash generation and debt capacity as EBITDAR grew.
I'd say that's still the case.
We've only deployed about $6 billion $8 billion out of the $30 billion or so we're going to generate and the capacity that we'll generate over that five-year period.
But we still have a lot of room to grow.
In terms of how big we'd be willing to go I guess it would depend on how good the opportunity would be.
If we have something that could generate great returns and we think there's forgiveness in the numbers and the ability to execute then yeah I'd be willing to go larger.
But by the same token it's got to make sense consistent with how we've talked about deals in the past.
Right.
And it's good to see that Elster EBIT has held up and hasn't collapsed on you like some other deals.
Just a comment or a question on UOP.
These international wins that you guys are booking I know you had talked about a pipeline of 12 or so at some stage of the game.
What is kind of the number of opportunities out there? Because there's a view that everything in energy is basically going down a lot but this seems like actually an area where a little pocket that actually is growing and has some opportunity.
How many of these are out there to offset what's going on in clearly a more challenging domestic environment and gas processing? Yeah we had a nice fourth quarter in orders on gas processing Steve.
There was a  one or two of mega projects that really contributed to the gas processing orders growth.
There's a handful of things that we're pursuing internationally now.
We don't really comment on the individual prospects but I would say it's enough to keep the team busy.
And we'd like it to be bigger though.
We'd like the pipeline to be bigger.
Right.
But a couple of those are multiples of what the domestic stuff is so it seems like that's a pretty good backfill for an energy environment where there's not much backfill elsewhere.
Yeah.
Very sizable opportunities.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks a lot guys.
We will take our next question from Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
Thanks.
Good morning.
So I think what we're seeing here is HOS Gold really does feel like it's accelerating the productivity but I know you're going to talk about that in March so I'll leave that there.
I just wanted to come back to the M&amp;A pipeline and the $20 billion $30 billion ambition to deploy capital.
And I'm just wondering with this environment arguably more willing (01:01:22) sellers PE is constrained by the high yield market.
Do you think or maybe are you more optimistic that you can do another Elster or maybe something larger over the next 12 months given the backdrop what we're seeing right now? Well let me just  since you brought up HOS Gold I should add it's a lot more than just a productivity story.
I would agree that HOS was that way because that was really focused on our factories and we brought that into the functions with functional transformation but HOS Gold is much about the breakthrough goals and what that does to excite growth as it is a basic cost productivity.
And I think you'll be quite encouraged with some of the stuff the guys are going to share along the lines of something like three-quarters of our breakthrough goals involve software the progress that we've made in breakthrough goals and how that's shown up.
But HOS Gold is as much about growth as it is about productivity.
In fact I'd say probably even more so.
When it comes to the acquisition side I'll let Tom handle that one.
Yeah I think the  I mean it's a good question Nigel.
I think the expectations from a seller perspective I don't think we've seen them moderate to any significant degree.
I think you're referring to a private equity and your ability to get financing maybe that's capping what we're seeing.
I think you still see robust expectations from sellers.
But with that said I'd repeat what Dave said earlier into the question which was our cadence around M&amp;A is the same as it's always been.
We take a look at opportunities every month in every business.
There's plenty to talk about in each of those businesses.
The sizes of the opportunities vary.
And some of them could be sizable like Dave said but there's an equal amount or more that are of the size that we've historically done.
So really nothing's changed.
I can't say that anything is imminent except for the closure of COM DEV knock-on wood.
So that's the environment and we're overall encouraged that we can hopefully do something similar to what we did in 2015.
Okay.
Okay thanks.
That's great.
And just a quick one.
I know we're running a little bit late here.
I'm seeing that the bulk of the minority line in 2015 was UOP Russell.
So I'm wondering now you've bought in the minority of the minority interest what happens to that line going forward? That line will go down.
To your point Nigel it's a subtraction from our earnings represented the 30% minority interest in UOP Russell.
We purchased the remaining 30% near the end of the year and what that does is eliminates that deduct.
We always had the full 100% of UOP Russell in our segment margin.
So this will be an improvement to EPS but not necessarily to sales or segment margins.
Right.
But it's accretive to earnings? Correct an improvement to EPS.
Great.
Thanks guys.
We will take our final question from Steven Winoker with Bernstein.
Thanks for fitting me in.
And Dave before you just hand Scott that job answering phones make sure you conduct in-person interviews for all of us okay? I think that can make a difference.
All right Steve.
Appreciate it.
I feel there's demand.
Listen.
Cash flow pretty darn impressive 127% conversion.
You guys talking about normalization on CapEx going forward but this is a change from an external viewpoint of Honeywell in terms of the numbers we're seeing.
So maybe give us a little more thought around not just the CapEx side but the rest of free cash flow and what's going on internally such that we should over a longer period of time be thinking closer to 100% free cash flow conversion as just part of the business model? Well actually I don't think it's a change to the story we've been telling.
It may be how it's been perceived.
But as you know before we embarked on this CapEx expansion we were generally over 100%.
We said we had the opportunity to invest about $1 billion here at 30% and 40% IRRs that yeah they don't show up right away given the magnitude of the projects.
But it does show up and when it does it's quite good.
And we've always thought that made sense.
And the focus on free cash flow conversion I found a little interesting because I felt like a number of investors thought that I should pass up 30% and 40% projects so that I had good conversion that I could then invest in acquisitions at 15% IRR which doesn't make a lot of sense.
And that's why we said we're going to run this for the long-term.
So we always planned on getting back to 100% as soon as we were done with the CapEx expansions.
And Tom saying it was we feel a message that we've been saying all along.
But if it resonates better because we said it again then great because that's been the message all along as far as I'm concerned.
And you don't see  you continue to see a tale down in those projects right there's not new ones coming up? Well here's the part that is probably going to be frustrating for you because while the answer is right now no I hope they do.
Because if we have $1 million projects for 30% and 40% IRRs I think you should want me doing that.
Yeah.
No absolutely.
All right.
On just non-resi can you give a little more detail about what you guys are seeing? Are you seeing any deceleration and sort of residual impact of energy in certain parts of the country? No I think it's still pretty much the same.
We've said before it's better than the slow growth we see everywhere else.
But that being said it's still slow overall.
Yeah I would add Steve to that that I mean our businesses that participate and they are as you know mostly ACS Fire and Security had outstanding years outgrew the market.
So if you consider I don't know whose number you want to believe but the ones that I hear say non-resi grew somewhere between 4% or 5% in the year.
We're certainly above that in some of our products businesses.
As we talked about in HBS we had constraints from the declines in the energy retrofit business.
I think that's more of a timing issue than anything else.
So overall a very strong 2015 and the prospects continue to look pretty good for the period we have visibility for the next few quarters.
Okay great.
Nice quarter gents.
Thanks.
Thanks.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Dave Cote for any additional or closing remarks.
Well there's no doubt it's a slow growth environment.
That being said whether it's slow growth or high growth we believe your best bet is Honeywell because we do what we say.
Our strong diverse portfolio and our ability to execute really does make a difference.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.