Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Hormel Foods Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today Wednesday May  25 2011.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Kevin Jones.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Hormel Foods' conference call for the second quarter of fiscal 2011.
We released our results this morning before the market opened around 6 a.m.
Central Time.
If you did not receive a copy of the release you can find it on our website at www.hormelfoods.com under the Investors section.
On our call today is Jeff Ettinger Chairman of the Board President and Chief Executive Officer; and Jody Feragen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jeff will provide a review of the operating results for the quarter then Jody will provide detailed financial results for the quarter.
The line will be open for questions following Jody's remarks.
An audio replay of this call will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m.
Central Time today May 25 2011.
The dial-in number is (800) 406-7325 and the access code is 4434269.
It will also be posted to our website and archived for one year.
Before we get started with the results of the quarter I need to reference the Safe Harbor statement.
Some of the comments made today will be forward looking and are made under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the statements we will be making.
Among the factors that may affect the operating results of the company are fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw materials and market conditions for finished products.
Please refer to Pages 27 through 33 in the company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended January 30 2011 which was filed with the SEC on March 11 2011 for more details.
It can be accessed on our website.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
We are pleased to report another excellent quarter in terms of both earnings and sales.
Earnings for the second quarter were $0.40 per share up a solid 18% over adjusted earnings of $0.34 per share a year ago.
You may recall that our adjusted results last year excluded onetime charges totaling $0.05 per share associated with the Valley Fresh plant closing and the change to the health care laws.
Total dollar sales were up 15% over a year ago and we were again able to register sales gains in all 5 segments.
This is the fifth consecutive quarter we have achieved year-over-year sales increases in every segment.
On the earnings side this quarter once again demonstrated the benefit of our balanced business model as the strong performance by our Refrigerated Foods Jennie-O Turkey Store and all other segments more than made up for softer results from our Grocery Products and Specialty Foods segments.
I will now take you through each segment.
Our Grocery Products segment reported a segment operating profit decrease of 9% from our adjusted earnings a year ago and a $1 sales increase of 1% for the second quarter.
We saw solid sales growth from core products such as SPAM luncheon meat Dinty Moore stew and Hormel Mary Kitchen hash.
But distribution costs associated with the launch of our Hormel Compleats Kids line of microwave meals and softer sales of our existing line of Compleats microwave meals hindered our results in the quarter.
We remain pleased with the performance of our MegaMex Food venture as increased sales of our Mexican food products continued to contribute positively to our overall results.
Our Refrigerated Foods segment had another strong quarter with segment operating profit up 27% aided by higher pork operating margin.
Sales were up 16%.
On the retail side we enjoyed a strong sales of Hormel Party Trays Hormel Natural Choice deli products and Hormel Cure 81 premium hams.
Our Hormel Country Crock line of side dishes also contributed nicely to our sales growth.
The food service trade remains choppy with areas of strength and areas that remain soft.
Sales of our branded products including Natural Choice deli meats AUSTIN BLUES BBQ products and Café H ethnic products all grew during the quarter.
Our Jennie-O Turkey Store segment had another outstanding quarter with segment operating profit up 45% and sales up 25%.
Jennie-O's results came from higher commodity meat prices improved efficiencies throughout the entire business and vibrant sales of value-added products.
Export sales of dark meat from Turkey also remained strong.
Sales increased for Jennie-O in all 3 value-added areas: Retail Food Service and Deli led by Retail tray pack fresh turkey Turkey Burgers and Turkey Bacon.
We continued to generate excellent exposure for the Jennie-O Turkey Store brand through our sponsorship of The Biggest Loser reality TV show.
Segment operating profit at our Specialty Foods segment declined 11% on a net sales increase of 4%.
Segment profit results were hurt primarily by higher raw material costs and the unit is in the process of catching up to these with its pricing.
For Q2 stronger sales of private label canned meat sugar and blended products offset softer nutritional jar sales.
Our All Other mostly International segment had an impressive quarter with segment operating profit up 104% on a sales increase of 45%.
Strong exports of fresh pork and of our SPAM family of products were the principal drivers of the improved results for this segment.
Looking forward we expect higher raw material costs to continue to impact our value-added products in the second half of the year.
We are working to offset those increased input costs through a combination of improved productivity and through pricing though we anticipate a lag effect.
We will also closely monitor the impact of higher pricing on our volumes.
We anticipate higher hog costs as we get into warmer weather.
Pork operating margins have not been quite as strong lately as they were in recent quarters.
We expect them to remain higher than historical levels but lower than a year ago during the second half.
The turkey industry is in good balance and we expect that status to continue.
However we anticipate Jennie-O Turkey Store's second half to be more difficult as we cycle in higher grain costs.
Notwithstanding these challenges I am most impressed and encouraged by our outstanding sales momentum across all sectors of the business.
This means we are connecting with consumers through both our newer and traditional product lines and it bodes well for our continued success.
Our leading brands are an important part of this success and we plan on continuing to invest in those brands.
For example we will continue to support our Compleats product line as well as Hormel Natural Choice and Hormel pepperoni products as part of the Life Better Served Hormel brand advertising campaign during the second half of the year.
We also plan to resume our Make The Switch marketing campaign for Jennie-O Turkey Store this summer and fall.
Taking these considerations into account and given our strong results in Q2 we are again raising our full year guidance range this time to $1.67 to $1.73 per share from the previous range of $1.62 to $1.68 per share.
At this time I will turn the call over to Jody Feragen to discuss the financial information relating to the second quarter.
Thank you Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
For the second quarter of 2011 GAAP net earnings totaled $109.6 million or $0.40 per share compared to adjusted net earnings of $91.3 million or $0.34 per share a year ago.
GAAP net earnings for the first half of fiscal 2011 totaled $258.4 million or $0.95 per share compared to adjusted net earnings of $202.5 million or $0.75 per share a year ago.
As Jeff mentioned adjusted earnings for 2010 exclude the impact of onetime charges related to the closure of our Valley Fresh plant and tax charges primarily related to changes in the health care laws.
These onetime charges resulted in a total adjustment to diluted earnings per share of $0.05 for the second quarter of 2010.
A table reconciling our adjusted earnings calculation to earnings calculated under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles was included in our earnings release.
Dollar sales for the second quarter totaled $2 billion compared to $1.7 billion last year a 15% increase.
For the first half dollar sales increased 13% to $3.9 billion.
Volume for the second quarter was 1.2 billion pounds up 7% from fiscal 2010.
Year-to-date volume was 2.5 billion pounds up 5% from fiscal 2010.
Selling general and administrative expenses in the second quarter were 8.2% of sales compared to 8.6% last year.
Year-to-date SG&amp;A expenses were 7.9% compared to 8.5% last year.
We expect selling general and administrative expenses to be approximately 8% of sales for the full year.
Interest expense for the quarter was $7.2 million compared to $6.6 million last year.
Year-to-date interest expense was $13.8 million compared to $13.1 million last year.
We expect interest expense to be approximately $22 million to $23 million for fiscal 2011.
Our effective tax rate in the second quarter was 33.9% versus 40.7% in fiscal 2010.
The 2010 tax rate was higher due to the onetime impact of health care legislation changes and the tax treatment of Medicare Part D reimbursement.
The year-to-date effective tax rate was 34.3% compared to 36.8% last year.
For fiscal 2011 we expect the effective tax rate to be between 34% and 35%.
The basic weighted average number of shares outstanding for the second quarter was 267 million shares.
The diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding for the second quarter was 273 million shares.
We repurchased 770 000 shares of common stock during the second quarter and we have 7.5 million shares remaining to be purchased from the 10-million-share authorization in place.
Depreciation and amortization for the quarter was $31.1 million compared to $30.6 million last year.
For the first half of the year depreciation and amortization was $62.2 million compared to $61.5 million last year.
We expect depreciation and amortization to be approximately $125 million in fiscal 2011.
Total debt at the end of the quarter was $600 million of which $350 million will be repaid on June 1 the maturity date for that bond.
We issued $250 million of tenured bonds in April of this year.
Capital expenditures and property acquisitions for the quarter totaled $19 million compared to $22 million last year.
For the first 6 months of the year capital expenditures and property acquisitions totaled $43 million compared to $40 million last year.
For fiscal 2011 we expect capital expenditures and property acquisitions to be approximately $100 million to $110 million.
At this time I will turn the call over to the Operator for the question-and-answer portion of the call.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Jeff can you talk a little bit about turkey?  You did say you feel like it's in good balance supply and demand cold displays [ph] are up slightly but can you just tell me -- give us more detail on the supply and demand outlook over the next 12 months that you have? And perhaps compare that to fiscal '08 or 2008? Well I'm not sure I can go all the way 12 months out.
We certainly see eggs [indiscernible] and placement numbers that take us through the end of this year and a little bit into next fiscal year.
But right now on the basis of those numbers on the basis of what we see in terms of production in the industry and on the basis of cold storage numbers coupled with still strong demand on the export side I mean we feel that the amount of product going to market will support solid pricing on a commodity basis and there seems to be a good demand for it.
And in turn that's helpful on the value-added side.
Clearly that's our emphasis is selling products in a value-added form there.
We are challenged with having to continue to look at advancing pricing because the inputs have gone up so significantly but it's probably a little bit easier to do that in an environment where the commodity markets are supportive of that kind of pricing.
And just in contrast to fiscal '08 when you had commodities spike up I guess similar to what we've seen I mean can you just give us a sense of how you're feeling about that business looking forward now compared to like '08? I guess I'm feeling when I look at the aggregate of the business of -- very solid about it.
I think there's a lot of efficiency gains that our team up there has brought to the market that's very helpful.
And then we really stepped up our efforts on the branded side and what -- we're really the only player out there doing advertising in turkey and we're doing more than ever if you look at both last year and our plans for second half of this year and it's paying dividends.
I mean we've seen very strong value-added sales which ultimately is what we're trying to accomplish there.
Great.
And one last one on Grocery Products.
You mentioned last quarter that you were trying to get to a pricing and looking at the top line this quarter it seemed like there was some resistance.
Can you just tell us what you're seeing out there competitively in the marketplace and how the pricing is flowing through relative to your expectations? And also related to that maybe comment on fresh pork spreads.
I know you made some comments about where you expect them to be but there's been some demand resistance on the fresh side as well.
And I wonder if that's similar to what you've seen in the value-added side? Akshay this is Kevin.
I'm going to ask Jeff to respond to the Grocery Products question and I think we need to move on.
Okay.
So on the Grocery Products side some of the pricing actions we took were undertaken later in the quarter and so the full quarter results are not reflective of all the pricing activity that has been announced there.
I wouldn't say we're getting resistance in the form of a refusal by the customer to go with the pricing that we're suggesting.
However it isn't across the whole portfolio.
For example we've cited to you a couple of times in the area of Hormel Compleats that we're still working on new things with that brand.
Those of you who are able to come to Investor Day are going to see some new label design and some other new product samples and so forth related to Compleats.
So that's a fairly key component of Grocery Products.
We've not taken pricing on that because we've not been satisfied with the sales thus far.
And our next question comes from the line of Farha Aslam with Stephens.
Just continuing on the Grocery Products segment Jeff you had mentioned that you'd taken pricing but there's going to be a lag in terms of when input costs flow into the P&amp;L versus when pricing flows in.
Do you think that that catches up in the third quarter?  Or is that more of a fourth quarter event? Well on the Grocery side I think we will start seeing improvement in the third quarter.
With -- the comment about lag really was sort of an across-the-board comment because even at the Jennie-O I mean that's just been a steady wave of an upward market in terms of the inputs and on top of that you have hedged positions that are rolling off that are less favorable.
So the team has done a good job thus far obviously in trying to keep up with their pricing.
But there is more to do and in that case it's not always a day-to-day exactly a match-up to when the costs roll higher.
Okay.
And then in Refrigerated do you feel like those the pricing in your Refrigerated Foods has caught up with the commodity?  Or it's there more work to do? There's probably some more work to do there as well.
I mean Refrigerated also has the billion-dollar Foodservice portfolio within that group and the Foodservice group is much more current on their ability to price.
The retail side is certainly on top of it as well but in that case we still have some actions yet to come.
And just volume how has volume held up as you've taken pricing? Is that in line with the elasticity you've expected more or less? I would say to be honest with you it's been better than a traditional elasticity would suggest.
And I would think the reason for that in large case would be that the whole market is encountering it instead of just doing an elasticity on "Okay you wanted to just take your product up." Everyone's in this boat.
But on top of that I mean I think the vibrancy of what we have to offer.
I mean we have some very unique franchises in terms of Party Trays in Natural Choice and entrées and so I think that's supportive of the move we've been making as well and that's why volumes continue to grow as well as extra price kick on top of that.
And final question it's just your M&amp;A activity.
You have a very low debt structure and a lot of flexibility.
Could you share with us how robust M&amp;A activity is in your category? And are there any near-term opportunities? Hi this is Jody.
And of course we don't talk about near-term opportunities that we're looking at.
But I would say that the deal structure has picked up.
I would also add that the multiples that people are paying have maybe not turned back to the frenzy days but they become a little bit more challenging for some strategic buyers versus the financial buyers so we continue to look.
I will be using a portion of that cash to pay down the bonds that mature on June 1 and we continue to look for opportunities to invest in our businesses organically or through M&amp;A.
We're proud of our dividend history and we also have some room left on our share repurchase authorization.
So those are our priorities.
And our next question comes from the line of Diane Geissler with CLSA.
[Technical Difficulty] So I guess -- I think the major concern the market has with regard to your earnings which have been fantastic now for pretty much quarter-in quarter-out over the last couple of years it's just the sustainability.
Do you have some higher input costs that are going to roll into your P&amp;L? Can you just talk about your long-term growth target? And how do you match these results given the environment out there the higher commodity environment whether you're talking about higher grains that we'll see in turkey and/or the higher inputs that we're seeing in Grocery Products which caused a little bit of margin compression there? Talk about how do you stay on your growth track of whatever high-single-digit low-double-digit earnings growth when you just kind of keep having to sort of outsize profits quarter-in quarter-out? Whether it's Refrigerated Foods or Turkey does better whatever.
Well our long-term growth goals remain 5% on the top line and 10% on the bottom line and by the time we're done with this year I think if you look kind of at a 5-year CAGR we're probably close to 6% top line and maybe closer to a 10% 11% on the bottom line so we've been able to attain those.
I guess that is part of what we're suggesting here with our total guidance is it clearly the first half has been kind of a blowout very strong half and so the second half will be more moderate but we're -- we tend to try to take things year to year and so when you look at both sales growth and the middle of our guidance range now for the year we'll be -- end up being quite happy than what -- where 2011 ends up.
And we're not in a position quite yet to start talking about 2012.
But clearly in terms of momentum of some of the franchises we're very excited about whether -- ranging from the Mexican Food portfolio to value-added products to Jennie-O to some of these more innovative items in the Refrigerated portfolio we have a lot of good things happening.
But there's nothing within what you're looking at -- I appreciate fiscal '12 doesn't start for another 6 months but there's nothing within your viewpoint about your businesses that suggest that this is going to be a peak year and then earnings are going to be flat to down in 2012 which is...
I'm just not going to be able to provide a color at all at this point for 2012.
And our next question comes from the line of Ken Zaslow with Bank of Montréal.
Can you talk more about the pricing in terms of your ability to get it? Is it are you getting it through list increases less promotional activity new product mix? And if I think about it can you talk about where the momentum will continue beyond the next few quarters on the pricing environment? Well I mean the different lists you suggested really are all elements of where it can come from.
In some cases -- we'll talk retail first.
I mean there clearly have been list price increases.
In some cases there's been some modification on the promotional formulas.
On the Foodservice side it tends to be a much quicker response to what the markets really are.
And then as we talk about I think each quarter I mean we have a decent amount of our portfolio particularly within Refrigerated Foods that are traditionally market-moving-type items; bacons hams fresh pork; that always move with markets and so that pricing certainly has been responding.
We have catch-up still to do especially as we talk about some of the protein pieces that are dealing with the spike in grains as we roll off the more favorable hedged positions.
We still have more to do in the second half of this year and potentially even into the early part of 2012.
And it's just kind of hard to tell right now is that where is that going to level off?  Obviously all of us hope at some point if we can get to more flat environments for the next year and catch up on that that would be advantageous.
I guess I'm going to ask a second question but it's really not that -- the question I'm asking is the conference that you're going to be having in the Analyst Day.
Will you start giving us some sort of color for 2012? And the reason I ask and it goes to Diane's question as well is clearly consensus is it's pretty clear that they don't believe that your numbers could actually grow year-on-year.
So is there any context and I appreciate that you're not going to give context tonight -- today but will you start laying out a foundation for growth in 2012 that we can start to build onto? Or how do you expect to let the market know about this 10% growth possibility or not possibility or how we think about 2012? When will you start letting us kind of get closer to that 2012 outlook?  Will it be at the -- in the June Analyst Day? We'll give consideration to some way to describe what we're thinking about 2012 but we're also trying to be respectful around process.
I mean our internal teams have not submitted their strategic plans to our management yet.
Our board has not reviewed it yet so I mean typically we give you that number in November that's in our November call.
But if there's some way we can provide a little added color to both your point and Diane's at Investor Day we'll take that into consideration see what we can do.
And our next question comes from the line of Lindsay Drucker Mann of Goldman Sachs.
First on Refrigerated Foods and just thinking about cutout margins.
You guys and Jody in particular you've been vocal about the fact that you didn't believe that the run rate levels were sustainable that we saw over the past 12 months or so.
But there wasn't a real clear reason as to why we might get some margin compression and here we are today with a little bit of give-back on the margin side.
So curious if you can shed some light on what has changed over the past several weeks versus a very strong performance that we've been seeing over the past several months.
Sure.
It's nice to finally be a little bit more right than I was for the last prior quarters.
I think pricing has a lot to do with demand and as that continues to move higher at some point you hit a push point with the balance between what we're offering and the rest of the protein markets are offering.
And obviously hog costs generally used to be related to the costs of raising those animals and that seems to be reflective of what the environment is looking at although I see in the summer that they'll probably be less profitable for the producer.
So I don't have a silver ball on where they're going in the future but I would expect them to be more -- definitely less than the robust margins that we had in the second half of 2010 probably higher than what our old 5-year average was.
And I'm not sure that 5-year average is going to be the new norm going forward so we'll have to wait and see.
So your view is that this is really a demand pushback issue relative to high prices rather than any change on the production side? I mean we do see hog supply being down but only about a 1% for the year and that's kind of where the industry's at.
So the market seems to be in good balance for the pork industry.
It's the robust export demand.
And at some point if you -- if that gets too expensive I would sense there would be some pushback.
Okay thanks that's helpful.
And then on -- just on Jennie-O given just the low levels of corn inventory that we're looking at today and the very late start to planting season for much of the corn belts.
Are you guys concerned at all about availability of corn supplies in September October? When you say "all" I mean yes we will be concerned in an extreme situation.
I think that's been one of our concerns about a national policy that's within a 10-year time frame.
Gobbles up a major component it went from 3% of the corn crop going to ethanol to almost 40% this year.
But most outlooks right now would suggest that things will stay tight and that pricing is still going to be quite high but that we will have a sufficient supply to continue to meet our needs.
Okay.
And then last one before Kevin lays down the law here on how many questions I have.
On the export side very great quarter.
How much of this do you think is a function of specific to Japan some restocking related to the implications of the earthquake? Well if you're referring to export in terms of what our international results were? Yes.
Okay yes.
For us International in Japan is insignificant particularly in fresh pork.
We do next to nothing there.
We are selling SPAM in Japan and have launched actually a redoubled effort to have that gain better distribution in mainland Japan and that's off to a good start.
We did enjoy strong results in Korea in terms of our export sales.
So the big 2 drivers of international results were SPAM sales in multiple markets and then pork exports in Mexico and Korea in particular.
And our next question comes from the line of Eric Larson with Soleil Securities.
Inc.</strong> 2 real quick questions.
One question in 2 parts I guess is how I should phrase it.
First in your Turkey business in the quarter were there any positive mark-to-market gains from your hedged positions? I would assume that most of that took place in your first quarter and you're now more apples-to-apples.
That's correct.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Second question let me kind of go back at the opposite direction on this.
What do you think it would take from fundamentals in the overall market; i.e.
either supply or demand to either maintain your hog and turkey margins today or go higher? I know you're more muted for your second half which makes sense but to maintain the current margins in this environment pork cutout margins and turkey margins or to take -- to keep at this relatively high historical margin level for those 2 businesses? Well on the turkey side I mean clearly what we rely on in the long run is taking products and moving them up our value ladder.
And so the more we can enjoy robust sales of our Turkey Burgers and Bacon and tray pack that in turn will be supportive of the long-term operating margins of the division.
We recognize that the commodity markets are on the higher side right now for turkey and so that's been supportive of our results.
And we also recognize the uncertainty of how high is up in terms of these feed costs.
I think we've done a good job thus far in pricing to cover the run-up in feed cost but we also know we have more coming at us.
Jody is going to  talk about Refrigerated.
Refrigerated includes a lot more than just pork operating margins but because they have been so favorable that has been a big driver.
But we do tend to want to focus on our value-added businesses.
But I guess if I were to see those margins actually expand from where they had you'd have to see quite a bit more supply of hogs coming to the market and we're not seeing that.
I would think in today's environment with the high cost of grains and particularly if you look out into the future it looks like the less profitable venture to get into.
So the supply as well as the demand side of things and at what point do the prices get too high for a lot of the robust exports to continue? Also depends on the dollar too.
So lots of moving parts in that equation.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from the line of Ann Gurkin with Davenport.
LLC</strong> I have 2 questions one starting with Jennie-O.
If I remember correctly you all are very promotional in the second half last year.
Should we see that kind of level of promotion this year? And how is sell-in going for the holiday season for Jennie-O? Yes you'll see a similar element.
It's not quite as high in the second half this year.
This year we ran a little bit of it earlier in the year so it's -- on an annual basis there'll be close in terms of the advertising spend.
In terms of the holiday sell-in that was one of the reasons why the Jennie-O volume was so strong in the second quarter is that given the markets are robust and the customers were ready to make moves on it we ended up going ahead and selling a higher amount of our inventory on a current production basis as opposed to putting it in cold storage and selling it late in the year.
So we're doing quite well in terms of being in a position to ultimately sell through our full inventory by the end of the year.
LLC</strong> Great.
And then just on general -- on pricing as you look to the second half are you now going to need to increase prices again or more than you thought you would need to say looking back at the start of the fiscal year? Yes.
I mean it just keeps rationing up it seems like particularly on the side that we -- where we have the direct input exposure.
And so clearly that we are looking at second rounds in certain cases of the franchise.
And our next question comes from the line of Robert Moskow with Crédit Suisse.
The way I was looking at fiscal '12 is I was trying to look at isolate 2 things that the packer margins on a dollar-per-head basis which is to say are -- have been at record highs and are now somewhere between the average end and record level.
And I want to know if you can just give me order of magnitude where do you think your packer margins are right now?  Are they around $10 a head $11 a head? And what you do you think the 5-year average is? And then the other thing I was just trying to look at is is try to make some assumptions on where your grain costs are today and where they are probably going to be 6 months from now based on how high grain prices are? Is there any way you can give me kind of an order of magnitude on those 2 things? Well packer margins clearly have been quite high as we've talked about at least for the second half of this year.
We're expecting them to be higher than the historic norms for that time of the year but not as high as what we've been experiencing both the first half of this year or during very high levels of last year.
I don't have a specific number for you in terms of what do we expect in terms of less return on the packer margin next year but again we always point back to it's a multi-headed monster if you will.
And within Refrigerated Foods I mean we have depressed margins in some cases on some of the value-added items because in part these inputs have been so high.
So we don't -- we're not necessarily banking year in and year out on really high packer margins to drive results for Refrigerated Foods.
In terms of grain costs I mean we would -- you get used to new norms.
I mean we would love to have the markets at least settle in at some point and moderate at a certain level.
Grain markets have been incredibly volatile lately period with so many speculators in there with such a tight demand -- tight supply situation.
And then on top of that I mean this is always the time of the year when it's the most volatile.
Everybody's every day "What was the weather what are you hearing about planting " et cetera.
So it's high right now.
I mean we certainly have a hope that as the crop comes in things may moderate some but we don't have that visibility right now.
All right.
So on a grain basis just order of magnitude Jeff are you -- what's running through your numbers right now is it in a $5 -- on a $5 per bushel basis $6 per bushel? Is there any way you can give us a sense? All in it's probably in the $5s.
High-$5s I'd say.
And our final question comes from the line of Diane Geissler with CLSA.
Could you just talk about how much pricing did you realize in the Grocery Products segment in the second quarter? And what is your -- I realize you're not pricing everything in your portfolio but what are your expectations for the second half? And also for the Turkey division if you could give some break between how much was pricing and was there any volume lift in the Turkey division in the second quarter? Well on -- the second one would be the easier question.
The answer is yes definitely.
We saw volumes increase across the value-added franchises as well as pricing.
And it was really a pretty consistent picture to what the numbers we're reporting counting everything.
I mean the whole -- if you look at the total company and volumes were up 7% and net sales were up 15%.
So I mean you've got the differential on sales is both mix and some price increases but the volumes were quite solid across the board.
So if I look at Turkey being up 25% what would be the breakdown on the volume piece? Well there you start -- yes there you do start factoring in what we're just mentioning that we sold an additional amount of whole turkeys which is not -- they're not a high-margin contributor but they just happen to move at an earlier time frame.
So we're really I think Jennie-O ended up in the high-single-digit low-double-digit range in terms of the products the value-added products we're really looking to sell in terms of the growth that we saw.
Okay and pricing in Grocery Products what did you realize in the second quarter? And what are your plans for the second half? Yes.
We probably were halfway there in terms of what we were trying to accomplish and what we want to see in terms of a full quarter.
But there's a little caution there in terms of that -- that was trying to catch up to what we understood the cost position to be when we announced the price increases.
And as some of the other earlier questions have indicated there's been additional pressure in some of those areas.
And so for example we've already announced a second round of SPAM price increases this going forward here.
So we still have work to do as we go through the second half of the year.
I'm catching up to that.
Okay.
So should we expect a 2% price increase on the top line?  3%?  Can you give me an order of magnitude? Maybe Kevin can in a follow-up.
I don't want to just throw a number out and I don't have one offhand.
And we do have a one further final question from the line of Lindsay Drucker Mann with Goldman Sachs.
I just had 2 quick ones couple of headlines recently on GIPSA and the political process there.
I was just curious if you have an update for us on where we are? Well what I hear I was just been watching it a couple of weeks ago.
I mean they are going through with the economic study.
What I hear is that clearly we would love it if they would withdraw this thing altogether.
That's probably not what I'm hearing is going to happen.
What I hear is there'll be a new submission a new draft that will have some different elements to it and we'll just have to see if there are elements that make sense and ultimately are more palatable to the industry but it's been a frustrating proposed reg.
A lot of the elements of the initial reg were things that Congress specifically decided not to put into the law and some regulation folks back there were trying to jam it in anyways.
There was just a letter that was co-authored by 135 different folks in the House of Representatives specifically talking to the Secretary about needing to make sure that the GIPSA new regs are much more in accordance with where the law was from the last Farm Bill.
But it's something that the industry is closely monitoring.
Okay.
And then on the Turkey side.
Curious how proactive you guys can be about managing the supply dynamic to try and help Turkey prices keep pace with some of this extreme grain inflation once your hedges roll off? Well all we can do we can manage our own system.
And we do that.
I mean we cut back on our supplies here about 18 months to 24 months ago and those have rolled through since.
There was another time earlier in the last decade when the turkey industry got out of balance and again we were quick to make sure that we brought our supply in line.
And then frankly our key driver internally is not just the macro factors but also how much meat do we need to support the value-added products?  And we talked about wanting to make sure we over time get more consistent results out of Jennie-O by better matching that supply up with our value-added products.
So right now we're in a pretty good match.
I mean if we continue to see as robust growth as we have with our value-added items there may come a time when we need a little bit more supply just to support those but we're not in that picture right now.
And I'm showing no further questions at this time.
I'll now turn the call back over to management for any closing remarks you may have.
Thank you everyone for participating in the call.
Feel free/e to call me with any follow-up questions this is Kevin Jones.
And have a great day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference call for today.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Hormel Foods Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today Thursday August 25 2011.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Kevin Jones.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Hormel Foods conference call for the third quarter of fiscal 2011.
We released our results this morning before the market opened around 6:30 a.m.
Eastern Time.
If you did not receive a copy of the release you can find it on our website at www.hormelfoods.com under the Investors section.
On our call today is Jeff Ettinger Chairman of the Board President and Chief Executive Officer; and Jody Feragen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jeff will provide a review of the operating results for the quarter then Jody will provide detailed financial results.
The line will be open for questions following Jody's remarks.
As a courtesy to the other analysts with questions please limit your questions to 1 question and 1 follow-up.
If you have further questions you can get back into the queue.
An audio replay of this call will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m.
Central Time today August 25 2011.
The dial in number is (800) 406-7325 and the access code is 4457047.
It will also be posted to our website and archived for 1 year.
Before we get started with the results of the quarter I need to reference the Safe Harbor statement.
Some of the comments made today will be forward-looking and are made under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the statements we will be making.
Among the factors that may affect the operating results of the company are fluctuations in the costs and availability of raw materials and market conditions for finished products.
Please refer to the cautionary statement and risk factors on Pages 33 through 39 in the company's 10-Q for the quarter ended May 1 2011 which was filed with the SEC on June 10 2011 for more details.
It can be accessed on our website.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
We are pleased to report another solid quarter in terms of both earnings and sales.
Earnings for the third quarter were $0.36 per share up 13% from the $0.32 per share we achieved a year ago.
Total dollar sales of $1.9 billion were up 10% over a year-ago and we were again able to register sales gains in all 5 segments.
This quarter once again demonstrated the benefit of our balanced business model as the strong performance by our Grocery Products Jennie-O Turkey Store and All Other segments offset the softer results from our Refrigerated Foods and Specialty Foods segments.
I will now take you through each segment.
Our Grocery Products segment reported an operating profit increase of 19% on a dollar sales increase of 4%.
We generated solid sales growth from our SPAM family of products and Hormel Mary Kitchen Hash and we were also pleased to see some nice growth by our Hormel Compleats microwave meals during the quarter.
Sales of our Mexican food products continued to grow as our MegaMex food business contributed positively to our overall results.
The recently closed acquisition of Fresherized Food by our MegaMex Food joint venture adds an important component to our Mexican food portfolio.
Guacamole is a rapidly expanding category as consumers increasingly use these products in sandwiches in addition to their use in a dip.
The Fresherized Foods guacamole products are sold under the Wholly Guacamole brand and they are sold in both the retail and food service trade channels.
The products are processed using high-pressure pasteurization the same technology we use for some of our refrigerated meat products such as Hormel party trays and Hormel Natural Choice deli meats.
Annual sales of Fresherized Foods are about $140 million.
As with our Don Miguel products these sales will not be reflected in our Grocery Products segment results.
We look forward to the additional growth opportunities provided by this newest addition to MegaMex Foods.
Segment operating profit for our Refrigerated Foods segment declined by 12% hindered by lower pork operating margins versus last year's historically high margins.
Sales increased 10%.
On the retail side we enjoyed strong sales of Hormel pepperoni bacon and party trays Hormel Natural Choice deli products and Hormel Country Crock side dishes.
The food service trade remains choppy.
However sales of branded products such as Natural Choice deli meats AUSTIN BLUES BBQ products and Café H ethnic products grew during the quarter.
Our Jennie-O Turkey Store segment had another good quarter with segment operating profit up 14% and sales up 11%.
Continued strong sales of value-added products increased efficiencies and higher commodity meat prices more than offset higher grain prices during the quarter.
Sales increased for Jennie-O in all 3 value-added areas: retail food service and deli led by Jennie-O Turkey Store fresh tray pack turkey burgers turkey franks and turkey bacon.
Segment operating profit at our Specialty Foods segment declined 8% on a net sales increase of 11%.
Segment profit results were hurt primarily by elevated raw material costs which were higher than anticipated during the quarter.
Sales of private label canned meats sugar nutritional products and blended products all grew during the quarter.
Our International All Other segment had another strong quarter with segment operating profit up 67% on a sales increase of 35%.
Results were aided by strong export of fresh pork and improved results by our joint ventures in the Philippines Vietnam and Okinawa.
Looking forward we anticipate seasonally lower hog costs as we get into late summer and fall.
We expect pork operating margins to remain higher than historical levels but lower than a year ago during the fourth quarter.
The turkey industry remains in good balance and we expect that status to continue.
However Jennie-O Turkey Store's margins will be impacted as we cycle in higher grain costs.
Our brands are a big part of our success in growing our value-added portfolio and we will continue to invest in those brands.
For example we were supporting the new design and varieties of our Compleats product line with focused marketing and advertising.
And we will continue to support our other Hormel branded products as part of the Life Better Served Hormel brand advertising campaign.
We have also resumed our Make The Switch marketing campaign for Jennie-O Turkey Store turkey burgers this summer and fall featuring new TV ads.
Given our results in the third quarter we are again raising our full-year guidance range to $1.70 to $1.75 per share from $1.67 to $1.73 per share.
At this time I will turn the call over to Jody Feragen to discuss the financial information relating to the third quarter.
Thank you Jeff.
Good morning.
For the third quarter of 2011 net earnings totaled $98.5 million or $0.36 per share compared to $85.4 million or $0.32 per share a year ago.
Our current quarter earnings benefited from a lower effective tax rate lower corporate expenses and lower interest charges.
Net earnings for the 9 months of fiscal 2011 totaled $356.9 million or $1.31 per share compared to adjusted net earnings of $287.8 million or $1.06 per share a year ago.
GAAP net earnings for the 9 months of fiscal 2010 were $274.4 million or $1.01 per share.
A table reconciling our adjusted earnings calculations to earnings calculated under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles was included in our earnings release.
Dollar sales for the third quarter totaled $1.9 billion compared to $1.7 billion last year a 10% increase.
For the 9 months dollar sales increased 12% to $5.8 billion.
Volume for the third quarter was 1.1 billion pounds flat to fiscal 2010.
Year-to-date volume was 3.6 billion up 4% from fiscal 2010.
Selling general and administrative expenses in the third quarter were 8.2% of sales compared to 8.5% last year.
Year-to-date selling general and administrative expenses were 8% compared to 8.5% of sales last year.
We expect selling general and administrative expenses to be approximately 8% of sales for the full year.
Interest expense for the quarter was $5.6 million compared to $6.5 million last year as lower debt levels and lower interest rates reduced this expense.
Year-to-date interest expense was $19.4 million compared to $19.6 million last year.
We expect interest expense to be approximately $22 million to $23 million for our full fiscal 2011.
Our effective tax rate in the third quarter was 29.3% versus 35.8% in fiscal 2010.
Our effective tax rate for the third quarter of 2011 was favorably impacted by the resolution of tax matters with various federal and state tax jurisdictions.
These matters also impacted the year-to-date rates with the effective tax rate of 33% for our fiscal 2011 compared to 36.5% last year.
As you recall our 2010 year-to-date effective tax rate was higher due to the change in tax treatment of Medicare Part D subsidy.
For fiscal 2011 we expect the effective tax rate to be between 33% and 34%.
Basic weighted average number of shares outstanding for the third quarter was 276 million -- 267 million.
The diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding for the third quarter was 273 million shares.
We repurchased 1.6 million shares of common stock during the third quarter and we have 6 million shares remaining to be purchased from the 10 million share authorization in place.
Depreciation and amortization for the quarter was $30.6 million flat to last year.
For the 9 months of the year depreciation and amortization was $92.9 million compared to $92.1 million last year.
We expect depreciation and amortization to be approximately $125 million for the full year.
Total debt at the end of the quarter was $250 million compared to $350 million last year.
The change was due to the issuance and repayment of notes earlier this year.
Capital expenditures and property acquisitions for the quarter totaled $20 million compared to $24 million last year.
For the 9 months of the year capital expenditures and property acquisitions totaled $63 million compared to $64 million last year.
For fiscal 2011 we expect capital expenditures to be approximately $85 million to $95 million.
At this time I will turn the call over to the operator for the question-and-answer portion of the call.
Operator? [Operator Instructions]  And our first question comes from the line of Farha Aslam.
Jeff you've implemented a significant amount of price increases across your portfolio and might have to implement more given where grain prices are.
Could you give us some color in terms of how consumers have reacted which products have outperformed your expectations in terms of volumes and where you're seeing some pressure? Overall the reaction to the price increases has been reasonable from our perspective.
As you pointed out we have taken them throughout all the different business segments and throughout most of the portfolio.
As we've talked about before if we had items that we were not enjoying the kind of volume increases that we're looking to achieve then in those cases we've been slower to take pricing.
But overall most of the portfolio has been impacted.
The reaction thus far from consumers has been positive from our perspective.
Clearly our volumes this quarter in terms of being flat in some of the segments shows a little bit of a slowdown in reaction to some of those price increases.
But we're satisfied if we can hold the line there and continue to generate the net sales increase for both mix and pricing that we can continue to drive the kind of top line growth we're looking to drive.
I can't really comment on which ones surprised us but we did point out a number of franchises that enjoyed solid both volume and net sales growth in various parts of our business including SPAM and the MegaMex products and Compleats from Grocery Products pepperoni bacon and party trays from the meat products group Natural Choice deli and Austin Blues from food service and then fresh tray pack burgers and franks from the Jennie-O Turkey Store branded offering.
Okay.
And then just my 1 follow-up would be on the Jennie-O Turkey Store.
That business has seen some very volatile margins.
Over time you had historically said that you expect that business to deliver kind of 8% to 10% normalized margins and then I think you've said that's about the 10% to 12%.
Kind of if you had to describe a normalized level of margins for that business where would you put that? Or even maybe discuss it in penny [ph]  profits.
How should we think about that business? Well I mean I think we're certainly driving to try to have that business be more in that say 10% to 12% range and clearly as we finish out this year we'll probably be at the upper end of that range.
And then over time we've also tried to do things to narrow that band and to reduce the total volatility one of which is the production cuts that we put in place.
Heading into next year clearly Jennie-O Turkey Store will be looking at some comp challenges both in terms of some of what they delivered in the first half of the year and also the fact that the grain hedges are rolling off in some cases.
But that team is very aggressively pursuing efficiency gains and also the pricing they need to take to try to offset as much of those grain increases as possible.
And our next question comes from the line of Christina McGlone.
Jeff you talked about food service being spotty and I'm just curious given that things in the broader economy have gotten a little bit more turbulent and there's some kind of nervousness among consumers.
Did you see trends change throughout the quarter? Are you seeing anything weakening at the margin? Or is it kind of just status quo? It's really just been choppy was the word we used and it's been extremely so even month-to-month within this year.
I mean the early part of the year we started to see some more favorable signs from a variety of areas in the food service business and then it seemed like when gas prices started to escalate that took a lot of the air out of the balloon there.
As we sit right now it's inconsistent.
There's parts of our business where we're doing better on the noncommercial side for example.
But overall it's still very -- it's hard to read right now.
I'm confident that our team and our direct sales force is really on top of the industry.
We'll continue to outperform the industry numbers but it remains to be seen what those industry numbers are going to look like in the upcoming quarter.
And our next question comes from the line of Akshay Jagdale.
This is Adam Josephson in for Akshay.
Jeff why do you think commodity turkey supply has remained in check as it has? And what gives you confidence that that will remain the case in the foreseeable future such that you'll have an easier time offsetting higher corn cost in that business next year? The industry as a whole has shown a little better discipline perhaps than the other poultry side of the ledger.
I think something that's keeping everyone in check though are the escalating grain costs.
And so when people look at what's the breakeven in terms of basic processing in these industries that has to be a cautionary area for them.
Terrific.
And just one last one on your outlook for next year.
Obviously higher corn prices will be a challenge for Jennie-O and the volume impact that retail the price elasticity will be an issue.
What concerns you more or what gives you -- what do you have less certainty about going into next year? Is it the price elasticity issue or is it the corn issue? I guess it's probably the first.
I mean we kind of recognized heading into the next year we're clearly going to be on a higher total cost environment in our system by a significant amount than what we had for the full year this year.
But we have some sense of where that seems to be settling in.
It is a matter of pushing your efficiencies and pushing your pricing to try to offset as much of that as possible.
But that's a big number.
And our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Feeney.
This is Mark Williams for Jon Feeney.
If you could just walk me through the release of the inventory reserve please and how much discretion do you have there? And what does that mean for your hedged positions and other reserve leases going forward? This is Jody.
It's not related to our hedged position.
And that's really -- accounting rules require you to have your balance sheet stated at the lower cost per market and at times when we see escalating packer margins or pork operating margins we have to increase that reserve so that our balance sheet adequately reflects the appropriate inventory.
So last year we were increasing that reserve as we were headed into times of extremely high pork operating margins.
And now this year as the third quarter had much lower than normal pork operating margins we had to reduce that reserve.
So there's not a lot of discretion and it's a calculation we do.
Normally it's not a large amount and it's less than 1% of our total inventories.
But when it gets to the general corporate line it doesn't have an impact.
So that's traditionally not something that we have a year-over-year changed that large.
And our next question comes from the line of Jeff Farmer.
Inc.</strong> Total ad spend it looks like it was up about 20% in FY '10 and it looks like it's again through FY '11 it's about high single-digits.
What's the plan to keep that momentum going in FY '12 especially with the Jennie-O and Hormel brands? Which line were you referring to again Jeff? Inc.</strong> I'm sorry advertising spend.
Oh okay I didn't -- I thought I heard assets.
Okay.
In terms of advertising we don't do it on a divisional basis.
We are expecting on a year-over-year basis that advertising will come in at higher levels than 2010 and than 2009 and that's a purposeful increase as we transform the company more and more into the branded value-added portfolio that it enjoys.
We recognize that we want to become a bigger player in the advertising world.
This fall alone we continue to have very significant campaigns on-air against both the Hormel brand and also the Jennie-O Turkey Store brand.
We've not announced really any details of the 2012 plan yet so I really can't give you color in relation to how that's going to look for next year.
We will provide that next quarter.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then follow-up to an earlier question.
You alluded to this but Jennie-O volumes it looks like they were down about 3% following 3 quarters.
That looks like average about double-digit growth.
So in terms of what was going on there is that all pricing? Or what potentially else was sort of driving the increased demand for that brand? Well Jennie-O I mean the thing I do need to clarify there was an integrated supply-chain.
Their total volume number can be impacted quite a bit by how many turkeys we're bringing in at a given time of year.
So I can provide you with a little extra detail.
The value-added portions that retail deli and food service I referenced earlier those volumes were up 4% and their sales were up double digits as well.
It was the commodity side that declined.
So we actually are really quite pleased with what we're seeing from a value-added standpoint at Jennie-O.
We certainly think the advertising is helping to drive that as well as the execution by that team in store.
Inc.</strong> All right that's helpful.
So it looks like no pushback on pricing then? These numbers would indicate that we're in good shape with that thus far.
And our next question comes from the line of Christine McCracken.
Just on your comments relative to the outlook for the back half at Jennie-O and the competition I think from perhaps smaller pork supplies here domestically.
Curious if you look into the holiday season at full bird sales you've got a good rebate I'm assuming by now.
Are you fairly optimistic that you'll see a very strong kind of holiday selling season based on the lack of available ham supplies? Well we're in a good position in terms of the commitments we've made to our annual inventory of whole birds.
It's probably a little early to tell you in terms of what kind of sell-through you'll see.
Certainly that's our goal in partnership with the retailers always is to make sure not only that we're cleaned up but that they are also.
But a lot of that can depend on what kind of pricing the leaders come out of as they get close to the holiday season.
And we're a little early to be able to determine that right now.
Okay.
And then just this follow-up relative to your comments on your expectations for hog costs to fall into the back half just curious is there anything specific driving that aside from the normal seasonal declines that we see? I'm a little bit surprised I guess that it declined too much given where demand is today.
Curious on your comments there.
We're seeing hog costs that should decline coming into the fall and that's you're right a seasonal trend.
And you're also correct that the wild card would be where exports are going and they've been extremely strong this year.
But our anticipation right now is that we'll see seasonally lower hog costs still above last year.
And our next question comes from the line of Tim Ramey.
Jody as we think about the -- I'm wondering if you can give us some guidance on the sequential change in corn prices rolling through the P&amp;L maybe just on a percentage basis if possible for the 4Q versus 3Q.
Do we really see the bulk of the step-up in corn costs versus the hedge hit in the 4Q or in the 1Q? You're going to start seeing them in the fourth quarter and I would expect some escalation into the first quarter of next year.
Okay.
Any help on kind of sequential change? Well I don't have that with me.
Maybe if Kevin can come up with something that would be acceptable we'll be providing it to you and others.
And our next question comes from the line of Lindsay Drucker Mann.
So just on your full-year guidance I was hoping -- you disclosed the updated EPS number but I was hoping maybe you could just give us a sense by division in terms of profit growth what you're looking for since we have seen some pretty big swings in terms of greater change in the third quarter versus the first half.
I guess the best I can do is give you a color of just kind of within our balanced models which pistons we think are firing dollars in the fourth quarter.
Our expectation would be for continued moderation or any potential declines in Refrigerated and Jennie-O Turkey Store but with gains coming from Grocery Specialty and International.
And then if you look at the Q4 comparison I mean it will be important to note the absence of that 14th week or 53rd week this year.
And also Jennie-O Turkey Store has that extra $7 million gain last year that we did call out during the fourth quarter that will not be repeated.
Okay.
And you're talking about in terms of negative you're talking about momentum relative to the third quarter or you think that for Jennie-O or Refrigerated Foods profits would be down? I'm saying year-over-year.
Okay.
And then just on the export market I was wondering if you could give us -- as of your Analyst Day you have talked about an expectation that was generally in line with USDA that exports would be down hog or pork exports would be down year-over-year.
And Jody you mentioned some of the exceptional strength we saw year-to-date.
At the margin are you seeing any shift at a country level whether it would be Korea Japan China in terms of more -- are they in the market more or less? I mean are you seeing any of those inflections start to materialize? We are not a huge exporter of whole hogs or carcasses.
So we deal more in the specialty type items.
And Korea continues to be a strong export for us right now given their animal disease issues in the country.
So we're expecting that strength to continue.
Okay.
And then just lastly in terms of cutout margins curious if you're seeing any adjustment from -- on the processor side to some of the higher hog costs or any behavioral change that make you feel better or worse about how cutouts are going to fare over the next sort of few quarters that cutout margins will fare? Well they were extremely low year-over-year for the third quarter this year.
We're seeing some strengthening in those pork operating margins as we like to call them now as we enter into our fourth quarter and should be aided by some seasonally lower hog prices that we traditionally see in the fall.
And our next question comes from the line of Robert Moskow.
I saw in our tracking data that the cutout margins were low in third quarter too.
But then Tyson ended up reporting some pretty strong numbers in pork at least flat versus a year ago.
I'm just wondering like do you think that you're performing in line with your industry peers on the cutout in the quarter? Or did you feel like you left something on the table in Refrigerated on the cutout? No I really don't think we did.
I mean it's always been frankly a little bit of a difficult read for us versus some of the major protein competitors that have big pork divisions.
So we're not -- I mean everybody has their own way of looking at how they account for things.
So we just try to compare it to what we expect internally.
With this very significant diminution and the cutout values during the quarter clearly that puts pressure on the value-added units to make that up.
And they made quite a bit of headway in that.
But clearly when you look at the total number we were not able to generate a quarter.
We figured that was as high as last year but I'm still quite satisfied with how that division was managed.
Okay.
And if I could ask a follow-up on Jennie-O Jeff I remember talking to you about whether or not to heavy-up on advertising for Jennie-O in the back half.
Can you give me just some more specifics on how much advertising you have done on Jennie-O this year? I think you're adding more money in the fourth quarter.
And what kind of data do you have to show that it's driving the value-added sales that you wanted to drive? Sure Robert.
All told our expectation will be that our second half campaign for Jennie-O Turkey Store will be every bit as strong as last year's campaign was.
That was something perhaps when we talked last and we weren't totally sure at the full level we were going to go after.
But we decided to be aggressive with it.
In terms of -- we certainly have the sales trends which are still positive.
Both the turkey burgers and the ground tray pack have been good contributors to our results.
We have very solid ad read numbers off of last year's campaign and that gives us optimism that it seems to be connecting well.
But we're just now getting on air and so we don't have any new numbers yet to be able to show either awareness changes or volume being driven by the new campaign.
And we did a slightly different version of the one ad we have from last year with a little bit more of a grilling emphasis and then we literally shot a second ad that again emphasized the sort of Make The Switch notion.
And we're optimistic that it will continue to drive matching results for us.
And our next question comes from the line of Ken Zaslow.
Can you talk about the Compleats line? And to what extent do you actually think this is the I guess recovery of this brand? And then my follow-up is are there other brands that you think need to be either refocused or put extra ad spending behind where we could actually see an acceleration of growth? Well on Compleats the mechanics tend to be a little cautious.
I mean I'm very happy with the quarter but it's all of 1 quarter now that we pushed it back solidly into the positive column.
I am encouraged though that we did that really more with good in-store execution and with the recommencement of the advertising but really did not have yet the benefit of that new positioning and the new label designs that we showed everybody in Investor Day.
Those really aren't hitting store until now.
And so I think I am optimistic that that's going to continue the momentum on this brand that we have unlocked the new consumer insight in terms of their ability to shop that section.
So we certainly have high expectations for Compleats.
But I want to see it happen.
In terms of other brands I mean the ad spend the major emphasis of our advertising continues to be other Hormel-related items and particularly the Pepperoni category which is driving excellent growth quarter after quarter there and also Natural Choice which continues to grow nicely as well.
My expectation is that those types of items will continue to be featured going into next year along with Compleats on the Hormel items.
And then Jennie-O Turkey Store clearly is the next major expenditure in the ad area.
2012 is the 75th anniversary of SPAM and so we will certainly do some added efforts.
They may be more public relations and in-store but probably some consumer efforts as well to make sure we're announcing that properly against that brand.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of Ann Gurkin.
LLC</strong> Continuing on with Compleats has that momentum continued in recent months given the more challenged economic environment? I'm sorry I didn't hear the first part.
LLC</strong> [indiscernible] Compleats continued in the most recent months.
Well I mean really -- I mean we're kind of maybe 3 weeks into period '10.
I mean right now so far so good.
But it certainly was solid all the way through the third quarter.
So so far so good.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
And then can you help me think about Refrigerated Foods for fiscal '12 and impact of pork operating margins within that segment? Are you able to price through to manage mix to innovate to keep those margins up as we move through fiscal '12? Can you help me think about that? I guess Ann the best I could probably do is mention the kind of color we provided in general for 2012 and I'll mention Refrigerated within that.
We don't finalize our planning process here until well into October and then submit it to our board in November.
And then we provide that precise guidance when we come out on the next conference call.
But we did say at Investor Day that we do expect to submit a growth plan to our board.
The last 3 years in '09 we generated 22% EPS growth in 2010 15%.
This year we're tracking again into the high teens.
I don't think we're going to end up submitting a number at those levels but we do expect to submit a growth plan.
We do expect the comps in H1 to be more difficult than those in H2 and so that will influence how the quarters lay out.
And then within the balanced model as I mentioned earlier in terms of the question even about the fourth quarter that kind of model will continue into next year which is that we're looking for growth from Grocery Specialty Foods and International.
And we're looking for Refrigerated Foods and Jennie-O Turkey Store to hold their ground as best as they can.
And our next question comes from the line of Eric Larson.
Jeff one thing I noticed in the quarter was that your volumes -- I think your volume growth was basically flat and I think it's followed probably 4 or 5 quarters where you were kind of in that mid to high single-digit range.
And what I don't have in front of me here is was this particular quarter a very particularly tough year-over-year comp on tonnage growth and volumes? And if that isn't the case is that maybe some of the impact we might be seeing from higher pricing in the market? Eric I would agree with your assessment.
I don't think there was anything particularly unique about the comps.
So I do think as the accumulation of the various pricing actions that we've taken during the year have taken hold I mean it has a somewhat different effect on any given items within the portfolio and we did indeed see a flattening out of the volume.
I'm not overly concerned about it.
We still had a number of items within all the portfolios the ones I cited earlier that still grew.
And even on the decline side I mean you're talking division such as our Grocery Products value-added items or our meat products value-added items that each fell over 100 million pounds a quarter and we didn't have any single items that dropped even 1 million pounds.
So I mean it's choppy and we need to see the reaction to it.
Often when you talk to consumers and talk to retailers there's a reaction time when you raise price at least initially that may slow them down a bit.
But our expectation and hope is that as consumers get used to the new levels that they will continue to enjoy our products.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up to that Jeff x acquisitions what is the reasonable sort of a range of volume expectation a volume growth expectation that we should kind of think about you guys generating on average by quarter? Obviously it could be choppy by quarter.
But on an annual basis what would be a volume number that would be sort of a reasonable thing to look for? Well I mean I think if you look at our long-term guidance of being 5% revenue growth and recognizing we don't really bank on pricing.
Clearly we've been on more inflationary environment lately.
But we definitely bank on mix.
And we talk about the value adder and the innovative products and our $2 billion channel and so forth.
So probably in that low single-digit 2% to 3% is probably the volume expectation that would lead us to that kind of 5% revenue growth.
And we do have a follow-up question from the line of Christine McCracken.
Just curious on the industry recall on the turkey side have you guys saw any pushback there from retailers or any change to their demands around your business? Realizing it wasn't your product but generally just overall industry impact.
We did not see an impact to our business from it.
It's certainly something that all of us in the industry are always being very watchful about and need to make sure that we address them on an aggressive basis.
But in terms of the immediate impact of the business we didn't really benefit from it nor did it have any detrimental effect on any of the volumes.
[Operator Instructions] And management there is no questions in the queue at this time.
Please continue.
Yes thank you everyone for listening to our call.
Thank you for your questions analysts.
Any follow-up questions can be directed to me and that will conclude our call for today.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Hormel Foods Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Conferencing.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Hormel Foods Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today Tuesday November 22 2011.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Kevin Jones Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you to Dale.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Hormel Foods conference call for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011.
We released our results this morning before the market opened around 6:30 a.m.
Eastern Time.
If you did not receive a copy of the release you can find it on our website at www.hormelfoods.com under the Investors section.
On our call today is Jeff Ettinger Chairman of the Board President and Chief Executive Officer; and Jody Feragen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jeff will provide a review of the operating results for the quarter and the year and our guidance for fiscal 2012.
Then Jody will provide detailed financial results for the quarter and the year.
The line will be open for questions following Jody's remarks.
[Operator Instructions] An audio replay of this call will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m.
Central Time today November 22 2011.
The dial-in number is (800) 406-7325 and the access code is 4482517.
It will also be posted to our website and archived for 1 year.
Before we get started with the results of the quarter I need to reference the Safe Harbor statement.
Some of the comments made today will be forward-looking and are made under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the statements we will be making.
Among the factors that may affect the operating results of the company are fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw materials and market conditions for finished products.
Please refer to Pages 33 through 39 of the company's 10-Q for the quarter ended July 31 2011 for more details.
It can be accessed on our website.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
Bearing in mind that all of the quarterly comparisons were affected by the return to a normal 13-week duration versus last year's 14-week fourth quarter we are pleased to report solid results.
Earnings per share for the fourth quarter were $0.43 down 4% from a year ago on sales of $2.1 billion up 2% from a year ago.
We generated segment profit increases in 4 out of 5 of our operating segments.
Tonnage was down in comparison with last year's 14-week quarter but we held our own in the face of significant pricing actions.
Further impacting this volume comparison was the shift of significant whole bird sales at our Jennie-O Turkey Store segment into earlier quarters.
For the full year earnings per share grew 19% to $1.74 over the U.S.
GAAP earnings of $1.46 per share in 2010.
Sales reached $7.9 billion for the full year up 9% from a year ago with all 5 segments registering gains.
I will now take you through each segment.
Our Grocery Products segment contributed nicely to our solid Q4 results with segment profit up 3% and sales down 2%.
For the year segment operating profit was up 4% and sales were up 2%.
Segment profit during the quarter and for the year was adversely impacted by higher raw material cost.
Products register and sales gains in the quarter included such stalwarts as our SPAM family of products Hormel bacon toppings Dinty Moore beef stew and Hormel Mary Kitchen Hash.
Our MegaMex Foods business also contributed to our Grocery Products results and they supported their Herdez CHI-CHI'S and La Victoria brands with advertising during the quarter.
We have also been pleased with how the Wholly Guacamole refrigerated dips and related products have contributed to our growth.
We are encouraged by the progress we are making with the rollout of the new items and packaging for our Hormel Compleats microwave meals.
Dollar sales were down a bit on flat volume but this was largely due to stronger promotional efforts associated with the rollout not to mention the comparison with the 14-week quarter.
Our Refrigerated Foods segment operating profit declined 19% with sales up 1%.
For the full year operating profit in this segment was up 6% and sales increased 10%.
Pork operating margins in the quarter were up against a very difficult comparison with historically high margins a year ago.
Those margins have declined while pork prices have remained at elevated levels pressuring the margins of our value-added products.
Nonetheless our meat products group had some sales performance that did solidly in their product portfolio led by Hormel convenience bacon Hormel Cure 81 premium hams and Hormel Natural Choice deli meats.
We also continued to see growth over our Hormel Country Crock refrigerated sides.
Our Foodservice Group saw growth in its value-added product portfolio including sales of Hormel Natural Choice deli meats and pizza toppings.
Our Jennie-O Turkey Store segment completed a very strong year with a good quarter.
Segment operating profits were up 4% and sales up 2% during the quarter.
For the full year segment operating profit was up 43% and sales increased 12%.
Results at Jennie-O in the quarter were driven by the continued growth in value-added sales and efficiencies throughout their supply chain and in their operations.
These more than made up for a significantly higher feed costs during the quarter.
Sales increase for Jennie-O and all 3 value-added areas retail Foodservice and deli led by Jennie-O Turkey Store retail tray pack and turkey burgers.
Our second Make The Switch advertising campaign helped propel sales of these products.
Our Specialty Foods segment got back on track with a segment profit increase of 12% and a sales increase of 10% in the quarter.
Improved mix with higher sales of blended and nutritional products and better sales of canned meats were the primary drivers of the positive results during the quarter.
Full year results for Specialty Foods had operating profit down 5% on 7% higher sales as they were unable to fully address higher raw material costs until later in the year.
Pricing taken in the third quarter helped offset those higher costs in the fourth quarter.
Our international All Other segment capped off a very strong year with another good quarter with segment operating profit of 3% and sales up 12%.
Strong fresh pork exports drove the positive results.
For the full year segment operating profit was up 39% and sales were up 26%.
As I stated at our Investor Day in June and subsequently we expect to grow both sales and earnings in fiscal 2012.
We are looking for our Refrigerated Foods and Jennie-O Turkey Store segments to hold their own while our Grocery Products Specialty Foods and international All Other segments will provide the earnings growth.
We recognize that we will encounter difficult comparisons in the first half of fiscal 2012 becoming more favorable later in the year.
Overall headwinds to our outlook for 2012 include continued volatile raw material costs higher grain costs and an anticipated decline in processing margins.
We will continue to take strategic and modest price increases where we need them in order to partially offset these higher raw material costs.
On the positive side we continue to enjoy solid top line momentum with a number of our important value-added franchises.
For example the strong sales growth of our Jennie-O Turkey Store fresh tray packs and turkey burgers should continue into 2012 fueled by our Make The Switch ad campaign and the trend toward eating more nutritious products.
The general wellness movement also lends strength to our Hormel Natural Choice deli meats.
With the recent addition of the Wholly Guacamole line of refrigerated products our Mexican foods portfolio is now well positioned to leverage its scale and our full range of product offerings in this fast-growing category.
We look for strong contributions from our Hormel Pepperoni and Party Trays as snacking occasions continue to be a big part of consumer eating occasions.
The Hormel Compleats microwave meal line should benefit from the new packaging and advertising implemented this year.
These are just a few of the platforms we believe will contribute to our growth in 2012.
After taking into account all of these significant factors we are setting our fiscal 2012 earnings guidance range at $1.79 to $1.89 per share.
At this time I will turn the call over to Jody Feragen to discuss the financial information relating to the fourth quarter and fiscal 2011.
Thank you Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
Net earnings for the fiscal 2011 fourth quarter totaled $117.3 million or $0.43 per share compared to $121.1 million or $0.45 per share a year ago.
As Jeff stated the fourth quarter of 2010 included an additional week.
Net earnings for the 12 months of fiscal 2011 totaled $474.2 million or $1.74 per share compared to adjusted net earnings of $409 million or $1.51 per share a year ago.
GAAP net earnings for the 12 months of fiscal 2010 were $395.6 million or $1.46 per share.
A table reconciling our adjusted earnings calculations to earnings calculated under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles was included in our earnings release.
Dollar sales for the fourth quarter totaled $2.1 billion compared to $2.06 billion last year a 2% increase.
For the full year dollar sales were $7.9 billion a 9% increase from last year.
Volume for the fourth quarter was 1.2 billion pounds down 7% from fiscal 2010.
Year-to-date volume was 4.8 billion pounds up 1% from fiscal 2010.
Selling general and administrative expenses in the fourth quarter were 7.4% of sales compared to 8.1% last year.
Year-to-date selling general and administrative expenses were 7.8% of sales compared to 8.4% last year.
We expect selling general and administrative expenses to be between 7.5% to 8% of sales for next year.
Interest expense for the quarter was $3.3 million compared to $7 million last year.
Year-to-date interest expense was $22.7 million down from $26.6  million last year as lower debt levels and lower interest rates reduced this expense.
We expect interest expense to be approximately $12 million to $15 million for 2012.
Our effective tax rate in the fourth quarter was 34.3% versus 34.8% in fiscal 2010.
The year-to-date effective tax rate was 33.3% compared to 36% last year.
For fiscal 2012 we expect the effective tax rate to be between 34.5% and 35.5%.
The basic weighted average number of shares outstanding for the fourth quarter and full year were 265 million and 266 million shares respectively.
The diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding for the fourth quarter and full year were 270 million and 272 million shares respectively.
We repurchased 2.6 million shares of common stock during the fourth quarter spending $72.3 million.
For the full year we spent $153 million purchasing 5.5 million shares.
We have 3.3 million shares remaining to be purchased from the current authorization in place.
We announced a 9% -- a $0.09 per share increase to the annual dividend making the new dividend $0.60 per share.
This represents an 18% increase on top of a 22% increase last year and marks the 46th consecutive year in which we've increased our dividend rate.
Depreciation and amortization for the quarter was $31.2 million compared to $33.5 million last year.
For the full year depreciation and amortization was $124 million compared to $126 million last year.
We expect depreciation and amortization to be approximately $115 million to $117 million in fiscal 2012.
Total debt at the end of the quarter was $250 million compared to $350 million last year.
The change was due to the issuance and repayment of notes earlier this year.
We invested $61 million in our MegaMex Foods joint venture in the fourth quarter to facilitate the Wholly Guacamole refrigerated dips acquisition.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $41 million up from $26 million last year.
For the full year capital expenditures and property acquisitions totaled $104 million compared to $90 million last year.
For fiscal 2012 we expect capital expenditures to be approximately $140 million to $150 million.
At this time I will turn the call over to the operator for the question-and-answer portion of the call.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask a question on the Jennie-O Turkey business.
Was there -- can you -- was there any benefits from mark-to-market this quarter? And can you just help us frame your expectations for next year given that it was a record year on sales and margins? We saw no change in terms of mark-to-market so that did not affect the results in Q4 at all.
In terms of our expectations for next year the team is doing a great job at overcoming steep cost increases that have been coming at them for several periods now and will continue to into next year.
They've done that in part with efficiency gains in the operation and in part by pushing pricing in the various value-added segments.
I think our advertising campaign for the Jennie-O Turkey Store brand has also helped support value-added sales growth and we seem to have good momentum heading into next year for -- with those value-added products.
Research Division</strong> And just one follow-up.
What kind of increase in grain costs are you expecting next year? I mean where -- you had some hedging good hedge positions this year and there's been a lot of movement in grain cost.
Can you help us understand just roughly magnitude-wise what kind of increase you might be expecting there? I guess I'll probably let Kevin provide a follow-up to you maybe later in terms of any additional specificity.
But clearly we've said for the last several years that we're actively involved in hedge programs on our material grains for the major operations at Jennie-O.
We've guided to between a 25% and 75% coverage range.
We did say last year for 2011 we were on the upper end of that range.
Heading into 2012 we're kind of right in the middle of that range.
But in terms of specific cost differences we'll kind of have to do that on a follow-up basis.
And our next question is from the line of Christina McGlone with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Jeff I was just wondering where are you in terms of pricing through the raw materials? Are you pretty much caught up? Or is there more to go and then the kind of demand response you're seeing? And also if you could talk about the most points of pressure in terms of raw material costs.
Okay.
In terms of pricing in general I think our refrigerated operations had been in pretty good shape as had grocery.
What has been a little bit unexpected is the level at which some of those raw material inputs have stayed this fall.
And so the teams are continuing to assess whether they have the right pricing in the marketplace to fully cover down those costs and that will continue to be a challenge for them as they head into the beginning part of next year.
The Jennie-O Turkey Store team I think has done a good job of trying to stay ahead in terms of pricing against their cost input so they still have a little bit more coming as well.
In terms of demand reaction this is the -- we kind of view this quarter when all said and done has been fairly flat in terms of volumes.
Obviously reported volumes are lower than that.
But when you net out the comparison just roughly we're looking at a kind of flat quarter.
And that's the second quarter in a row when the volumes have been flat.
These have both been quarters where we had to take significant pricing and so holding the line in terms of those volumes has been important to us.
Clearly in the long run we're looking to grow volumes of our value-added franchises.
But as long as we continue to be in this kind of pricing environment you'll -- we'll continue to see more larger net sales increases than you'll see volume increases.
Research Division</strong> And then just the pressure points in terms of raw materials is it trim costs? Is it manufacturing fees? What are the things we should be watching? Yes and yes.
You had 2 of them that have been certainly in our attention.
Beef costs certainly have been a challenge for some of the value-added meal based items that utilize beef for both our Meat Products and Grocery Products groups.
And then trim certainly is an important factor for SPAM for our dry sausage items and those have been at elevated levels through the fall here.
Our next question is from the line of Christine McCracken with Cleveland Research.
Just on the rollout of Compleats you talked about it being on the shelf now but didn't see any -- it didn't appear to have a significant contribution in the quarter.
I'm just curious if you're happy thus far with takeaway.
I know it's early days but maybe just an early read on that and whether or not you've put any marketing dollars behind that.
Yes I'm actually pretty happy with it.
We had an up quarter a clean-up quarter in the third quarter.
For fourth quarter volumes were actually flat but again as you compare it that was on a 13-week versus 14.
So that was encouraging in terms of the volume signs.
We have had an advertising effort against it and indeed have now created a new ad campaign for the 3 major Hormel-featured items heading into 2012 so that will be Compleats Natural Choice and Pepperoni.
And then in addition we unveiled a new label design at Investor Day in June and have certainly been diligent at selling it into the retailers and getting into the market.
And my observations are that on shelf it's still maybe in about half the accounts.
I mean it takes a while to work through inventory.
So we expect to have continued benefit as that new design and the new varieties are more readily available on shelf in 2012.
And then just in terms of price points as a follow-up historically I think this is viewed almost as a premium product.
Is it getting the takeaway in this economic environment that you'd expect? Or if things maybe improved a little bit would you expect a little better velocity? I guess we view Compleats more as a mainstream product line as opposed to a premium product but I guess that's in the eye of the beholder somewhat.
We have experienced since the recession hit a little bit of a downturn initially in the business and now more of a leveling off and starting to grow slowly again so it does.
I think single-serve convenience items certainly were something that seem to be impacted by the recession.
And so if we all end up coming out of that we do expect that to be a further tailwind in terms of being able to grow that item.
Your next question is from the line of Diane Geissler with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to ask you a question about pricing within your Grocery Products segment.
Because if I look at your results if I make an adjustment and I appreciate I may be making some assumptions here that are incorrect but if I make an adjustment for last year's quarter to exclude the extra week and then compare it with what the number you posted this morning it looks like your revenue within Grocery Products was up around 5.5% which is not atypical with what you did in the third quarter when your revenue in the Grocery Products segment which was up 4.5%.
So is that kind of what you saw in Grocery Products? And then I guess if you could comment on what the mix is between pricing and volume within that segment.
Our read is similar to what you just described Diane in terms of how we're seeing those volumes.
And then as we head into 2012 I mean we do feel the grocery division has several solid initiatives that should allow it to continue to grow top line.
It will be the 75th anniversary of SPAM.
We'll have new advertising creative to help support that product line and it has good momentum heading into the new year.
But we do expect growth out of Compleats and then MegaMex as we continue to add to that franchise has had good experience in terms of growing our sales and we expect to see that continuing going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But I guess the question here is really you didn't begin pricing in Grocery Products until the third quarter so certainly I would expect your first and second quarter you should see some pretty nice benefit year-on-year in terms of pricing before you overlap what you did last year.
And then obviously if prices -- input prices stay high you may have incremental pricing that you take within Grocery Products.
Is that what you're working on now? Yes that was I guess what I was referring to earlier was that we seem to be at component levels of certain of the raw materials and we talked about beef and trim being a couple of them that are higher quite a bit higher than historical rates quite a bit higher than the normal seasonal trend.
And so that's what we have to assess here is that are we just getting a kind of a hangover effect from pricing from the earlier part of the year or is this establishing some sort of new norm for what these costs are going to be and therefore what we need to consider what our pricing should be accordingly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as you've moved pricing into the retail environment what has been the reaction from the retailers? Are they accepting of that? Because obviously they're seeing it in every aisle.
But some categories I'm sure they're probably more accepting than others.
If you could just comment on -- or even maybe the channel mix what the reaction at the retail level has been.
Well we have to work very closely with our retail partners in determining the appropriate price for the item.
I mean clearly we are still dealing with pressured consumers.
The key measure to us is takeaway ultimately.
If our franchises continue to grow or at least in the short run if we see some flattening but not declines we're satisfied with that as long as we see the other end of it and start seeing the growth coming.
When you look at a lot of our franchises over the course of the year we have a lot of franchises not just in Grocery Products but in our -- in the grocery store period that experienced very solid growth.
So overall I think we have that credibility with the retail partner that we're measuring the right mix of advertising promotion shelf price et cetera to keep these items healthy and to make their consumers are reacting to them.
Our next question is from the line of Jeff Farmer with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I think this is the fifth quarter in a row you've called out supply-chain efficiencies for the Jennie-O segment.
So I guess my question is how much runway do you have left going into FY '12? I mean each year they're looking at aspects of their operation both on the farm side and in the plant operations where they think they can continue to attain efficiencies.
I think we've given you sort of a general guidance for next year that we're looking at somewhat of a flat year for Jennie-O Turkey Store.
And when you compare that to the large increases in that results that you've seen for the last 2 years that certainly does show that our expectations of being able to generate those kind of huge savings are probably less in 2012.
But we do think the team will continue to be able to show at least something in that regard.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you might have touched on this but you've seen 2 quarters of falling Jennie-O volumes even when you sort of adjust for the 13 week to a 13-week basis.
What's your volume growth expectation for that segment heading into FY '12? Well Jennie-O is always a tricky read for volumes because you max -- you mix in the macro trends and what are our bird numbers and then what are the value-added volumes.
We are saying for 2012 we're going to continue to run a tight operation with feed costs being where they're at.
We want to make sure we have the right amount of meat to support our value-added businesses but not a lot more.
And so total volumes for Jennie-O you'll see next year as we report each quarter may well be down to flat to down somewhat.
But we always -- we'll also let you know what the value-added trend has been.
And as was mentioned on today's call our value-added trend was still positive.
We saw growth in retail deli and Foodservice.
And so our expectation for next year is that they'll continue to grow net sales on a value-added basis probably on small volume increases there.
But the total volume of Jennie-O Turkey Store in a given quarter may well be down based on those macro conditions.
Your next question is from the line of Lindsay Drucker Mann with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just was curious if you could comment on -- you mentioned that some of the upside you guys have had in Refrigerated Foods in Jennie-O's giving you a bit more flexibility to invest back in your Grocery Products brands while some other food companies were struggling.
Can you give us any measures whether it be market share trend? Or even just anecdotally what you're seeing in the marketplace that reflect kind of the fruits of this benefit? Well I mean in many ways the Jennie-O benefits of the efficiencies we've frankly reinvested in Jennie-O.
I mean we've been able to support very significant advertising campaigns the last 2 falls in a row.
Within the Hormel part of the portfolio I mean really we really have done less of kind of trying to take it from refrigerated and invest in grocery and more just looking at the Hormel brand as a whole and of course it does go over both segments.
I know we had -- so the Compleats items or in other years Hormel Chili would be items we support for the Hormel brand in the grocery division and our Pepperoni and Natural Choice and in other years refrigerated entrées or Hormel items within refrigerated.
The overall Nielsen trends in our items especially when we look at them over the course of the totality in 2011 are favorable.
We're very pleased with the kind of growth we're seeing.
As we've said before I mean our items are still relatively speaking low household-penetration items with relatively low-buy rates.
And so we can create improvements such as what we've generated in 2011 with fairly incremental gains.
And we're confident the team can continue to deliver those.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then to clarify on your outlook for next year you talked about Jennie-O and Refrigerated Foods essentially holding their own.
Does that imply flattish profits year-over-year? That's the range we're looking at.
Research Division</strong> So if we're talking about tough comps for the hog cutout what does that imply in terms of your expectation for the balance of the Refrigerated Foods business? Well first of all the cutouts will be a part of what we've also talked about in terms of timing of results for 2012.
I mean our first quarter last year as everyone will recall was a blowout quarter highest quarter we've ever had and one of the major contributors to that were the exceptionally high cutout margins enjoyed by Refrigerated Foods.
We don't look for that to repeat here in 2012.
Beyond that I mean it still does get back ultimately to growing those value-added franchises.
And we think refrigerated with both its retail aspect and its Foodservice aspect should be able to steadily do that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly just a quick clarification you mentioned something about the pull forward of sales of whole birds for Thanksgiving.
Can you just give a little more color on that? Really whole bird sales are highly dependent on what the customer wants in terms of when they take deliveries for frozen turkeys.
Now fresh -- there's a small segment of the market that's fresh.
Those are processed in our plant within 3 to 4 weeks of the Thanksgiving season and those are not pulled forward.
They're a very reliable sale during the month of November but frozen sales can be delivered anytime from January February of the prior year all the way up until just prior to the holiday.
And that really we do that in partnership with the retailer.
They can take it either way they -- and this year we just ended up having more wanting to take them earlier and so we did reflect some of those sales earlier in the year in 2011.
Too early to tell how 2012 will play out on a year-over-year basis.
We started having those discussions with the retailer in about February or March of the ensuing year.
Your next question is from the line of Tim Ramey with D.A.
Davidson &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> If you're prone to worry as I sometimes am I think about the really great corn hedge position that Jody delivered last year early in the year.
And then if we kind of think of you being 50% bought forward we might have relatively high corn costs relative to cash early in the year.
And I think that's what you're alluding to in your prepared remarks.
Is there any risk that we see pricing pressure in the Jennie-O business in kind of the more commodity side of it as maybe people who operate on the cash market have more favorable cost position than your hedge position? In the aggregate our hedge positions for 2012 are perfectly favorable to the current cash market.
It certainly won't provide the major benefit that our hedge positions provided in 2011 but we're not ahead of the cash market right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay so that's helpful.
And then as I think about your CapEx budget did you tell us what the big uptick was in CapEx for '12 versus '11? If so I apologize I missed it.
I don't think we mentioned anything specific Tim.
But certainly we've had 2 years before this where we've been -- we were cautious at the beginning of 2010.
And we didn't get our spending up to the levels we thought and we worked hard on that in 2011.
But it takes time to get some of these large projects going.
So I have a significant amount of projects that have started in 2011 that will be completed and capitalized in 2012 plus a couple other good projects related to some exciting new products that we hope to introduce next year.
Your next question is from the line of Farha Aslam with Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> First a question on Refrigerated Foods Jeff could you just provide some color on how your Foodservice sales are faring and price competition in packaged foods packaged meats? Sure our Foodservice team well one of the measures we really study internally is how they're doing against their industry and they just continue to generate solid results on that kind of a comparison.
That being said I mean we started 2011 with some optimism and things were -- there were some momentum building in terms of true volume gains early in the year and then those kind of screeched to a halt in the total industry when gas prices started to go up in the spring and so -- and it's been a choppy and tougher year since then.
They ended up still showing some nice growth especially of their higher-end items the more highly value-added items such as AUSTIN BLUES and Café H and Natural Choice and those continue to be an area of emphasis for them.
They continue to do an excellent job at not only serving the commercial trade within the restaurant world but also a lot of the noncommercial vendors and are growing their business there as well.
In terms of price competition it really is all over the board.
It kind of depends on how differentiated the items are.
Clearly some of those market-based items within Refrigerated Foods the bacons and the hams those are price-competitive categories but they have -- those prices have been going up a lot this year because the inputs are such a huge portion of the overall product cost and everybody's facing those input pressures.
But when you get into the more differentiated items then you really -- frankly you're pricing against the consumer.
Thus you need to make sure you're getting the right level to sustain your volumes against your following for that type of item and it's less what the competition has had.
Research Division</strong> And a differentiated item would be your pepperoni? Sure party trays the Compleats those kind of items.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then could you just provide some color on the M&amp;A landscape and your priorities for cash? So far you've been doing mostly small tack-on acquisitions.
Anything in larger scale and is there a particular international market that you're focusing on? Farha obviously we don't have anything to announce today so our priorities continue to be the same as I discussed with a previous question on CapEx.
We're looking to do some internal investment.
And I think there's some excitement around some of the projects we have going in there.
I believe we've stated that our priorities are to invest in our business and that's part of it investing in CapEx but also looking at acquisitions and we'll announce those as they come.
But we also have done a nice job of returning to our shareholders with our dividend increase this year and last year coupled with our nice share repurchase this year.
Research Division</strong> And -- but any international markets or mostly domestic-focused? I think we are looking globally for opportunities.
And as Jeff has stated in previous presentations it seems to make sense that the Asia-Pac area would have particular attractiveness to us.
Your next question is from the line of Robert Moskow with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I want to know if you had quantified where you think maybe just industry packing margins were a year ago in first quarter and where you think they are today so that we can get a better set sense of -- your first quarter is going to be a really tough comp in Refrigerated Foods and we want to make sure we're setting it up the right way.
Well if I look at just the spread between the USDA pork cutout and the Western Cornbelt for averages for what would be our first quarter they were in the mid-to-low teens last year against the 5-year average that would be $5 to $8.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it okay.
And then also Jody can you give us the number for CapEx spending this year? You kind of...
Yes I just did the $140 million to $150 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay so it's $140 million so it will be up.
And what about spending on MegaMex? We haven't included any specific projects in there because that wouldn't show up in our capital expenditures.
That just shows up as an investment in our MegaMex business.
But I think there is some opportunity to make some further investments there even with the franchises that we currently have.
Research Division</strong> Okay because I'm looking at your cash flow statement it says $95 million increased investments equity affiliates for 2010...
Right that was the investment in Fresherized Foods that each partner put into the joint venture.
Research Division</strong> Okay then $51 million in fiscal '11...
It's '10.
'10 was Don Miguel and then '11 was...
Don Miguel yes and setting up for MegaMex venture.
Research Division</strong> So fiscal '12 is it going to be similar to fiscal '11 around $51 million again? Or is it 0 or where do we think we are? Well the acquisition has been fully reflected now for Fresherized.
So we have no new acquisitions to announce at this point whether there could be other investments in the business to grow and that certainly could happen but it's unlikely at this stage to be at those kind of levels absent a new acquisition.
Cash flow generation.
Research Division</strong> If the acquisitions are in a different line in the cash flow statement what I'm really wondering...
No for investments that MegaMex make it will show up in that investments line versus acquisitions because we are not the acquirer.
It's the joint venture that's making an acquisition.
You probably got to look at both lines I guess.
Research Division</strong> All right I think I'm on the same page.
So $51 million in fiscal '11 this year fiscal '12 maybe down a little bit from there? Or right around there or it's unclear? We don't budget for acquisitions.
We just enjoy them as they happen.
Our next question is from the line of Ken Zaslow with BMO Capital Markets.
In your CapEx can you break it down into what you consider cost-cutting measures kind of what -- I think you would be doing the turkey business more versus growth initiatives.
And can you define on what you think the return on invested capital would be outside of maintenance CapEx? Boy I can't do that in my head.
Yes that's...
I'm just trying to figure out like you guys obviously delivered a good year but I think the longer-term and figuring out what type of returns you had on some of this money going forward and how you guys think about it beyond that? And again I'm just trying to put some sort of stuck in the envelope type of math thing whatever you can help me on in thinking about that will be great.
I guess we -- I can probably provide you a little more of a narrative than what's the math.
Clearly in a business such as ours we're always going to be spending money to support our plants to make sure they're state-of-the-art modern facilities.
We do find ourselves in a position where we need to make investments periodically related to food safety our employee safety that clearly will not have the financial returns that we would hold our other investments to.
We sometimes have made additions to facilities in general.
We did that to Dan's Prize.
We did it to Jennie-O and we did in Rochelle not too long ago.
Clearly we added the Dubuque [ph] plant not too long ago.
And then Jody alluded to -- regardless of bricks and mortar there are times that even within our current plant facilities you end up having to make a fairly major expenditure just on a new and unique product line.
In all of these latter examples I'm giving you though we certainly would require our units to provide adequate cost of capital returns to our shareholders.
And I think over time we've done a good job of doing that.
So it's kind of a blend.
This year's step-up in CapEx is really much more a product of what Jody mentioned which is sort of a carryover just from a coincidental timing basis of a number of initiatives that got started in '11 rather than any one particular project that we can point to or a philosophy that's saying now "Oh we're not going to step-up to the 150 level on a regular basis." We've been kind of more at that 100 level and that's probably more normal level for us.
But is there a way of the 140 to 150 is there at least a general breakdown of look maintenance is going to be this the cost savings initiatives are  this and then the growth initiatives are this is 1/3 1/3 1/3? Just again not exactly an exact number but just some sort of guideline? Let me have Kevin get back to you on that comment because I don't have that information in front of me to even give you these legs.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up which hopefully ties to this is how much of the turkey infrastructure costs are you saving? I think obviously everybody's talking about the corn and the feed costs going up but is there a way to think about on an ongoing basis what -- how much should we continue to cut on a cost basis and read you here the operation there? And how long will it take you to get to that level? In terms of specific targets for our teams one of the commissions that we really not just ask Jennie-O but we ask all our teams to do is to find efficiency gains within their facilities that offset as much of the plant-based inflation as possible.
So obviously wages tend to go up benefit costs tend to go up but our teams have been a very good job of making sure that our total operating cost are not going up at that level.
But in terms of getting more specific to that on Jennie-O I'd have a hard time doing that right now.
Okay.
Are you close to -- because it seems like you've done more than just offset the costs.
I mean to me it seems like you're actually doing -- on complicating the dynamics of these of how it works and it seems like this is a ongoing process that can take 1 2 or 3 more years or are you there? Just trying to get some sort of flavor for -- it just seems like you're doing a good effort.
I'm actually trying to ask somewhat of a positive question.
I'm just...
Okay sure.
No I understand.
I guess similar answer to what I made -- said earlier about I think you can maybe gain something out of our guidance for Jennie-O for this year that we do think there's perhaps a little bit of a slowdown in the opportunities on the cost side to keep making those large gains that we are able to do over the last couple of years doesn't mean we're not going to still find other incremental opportunities.
In the long run though Jennie-O the Jennie-O story will be driven by value-added sales.
It will be -- it's still a protein that is quite underutilized that on an aggregate-protein basis has been flat for 20 years.
But clearly if you look at our growth we found value-added niche items that are connecting with consumers.
But they're still at very low household penetration rate levels.
Our ad campaign seems to be increasing those and in the long run that's what's going to be the driver for Jennie-O for years to come.
Your next question is from the line of Jon Feeney with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about on the turkey supply chain it strikes me that historically when you look over the sweep of history the business has averaged 8% 8.5% type operating margins up and down.
Part of what's caused significantly better results over the past 12 and 18 months has been certainly brilliant hedging and some very good market conditions and an unusual amount of discipline in turkey supply.
But then part of it is stuff that only you can control which are taking out the permanent supply chain and costs and it seems like mixing the business to better margins.
So I guess what I'm trying to understand how much has that midpoint average whatnot margin for Jennie-O improved? Like is this is now an average 10% 10.5% margin? Is it higher than that? I'm talking over the next 5 years what do you think is -- how much has that margin improved specifically? I guess I'd be hard-pressed giving you an exact number to it though I definitely would agree with the conception that we've hopefully moved that average up.
And the other thing we really tried to do by keeping our supplies as tight as we have is to narrow the range of possible outcomes.
I mean in some of these years with higher commodity markets I mean we frankly probably could make even more money in those years by having surplus commodity meat.
But we've seen the opposite effect of it in the years where they're plus favorable.
And overall we want to keep our team focused that you're raising turkeys to create value-added food items and so that's still the game plan for 2012.
We're keeping it tight based on the high grain inputs that we're seeing going forward.
And the general industry in turkey seems to have maintained a decent discipline.
But obviously we're just one player in that and others have to make their own decisions but -- so overall I do feel we've moved the average up.
I guess at this time I don't have a new specific number to give you but -- and hopefully we've tightened that range.
Research Division</strong> Why is the turkey industry showing so much discipline? Again it's one player at a time.
It's an industry the dynamic.
There's 3 kind of larger players and then there are a lot of other players in various parts of the segment some more vertically oriented some more based on the value-added items.
So I can't tell you in general as to what the specific answer as to why it seems to for example be a little bit differently than say the chicken industry has.
The products are different.
I mean in terms of how they behave in the marketplace absent Thanksgiving turkey is not a footballed item.
It's not the hot feature in the grocery store.
It's the Steady Eddie performer that has a certain niche following that like the items.
And so we're not -- we're never going to be the lead item in the ad but it has a good stable following.
And maybe that supports the outlook of how the different players will get their supply sides.
I don't know for everyone else.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And just a detailed question for Jody.
I know the K's not out yet but the -- what -- can you tell us what role inventory valuation played in the quarter? I know it played a role last quarter.
Yes and that was part of what impacted our general corporate expense if you look at it on a segment level.
Traditionally you think about that inventory reserve moving increasing when pork operating margins are higher decreases as pork operating margins decline.
So we had less of a reserve this quarter and last quarter because pork operating margins were declining vis-à-vis the prior year.
Research Division</strong> Okay so you have less of a reserve this quarter sequentially from the third quarter as well? Right not -- it's probably more flat to the third quarter but both versus the prior year yes.
Your next question is from the line of Ann Gurkin with Davenport &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wondering if you'd comment on consumer purchase patterns or behavior during the quarter and what you're seeing as you go into calendar '12 for like consumer purchases behavior what Hormel needs to do to address those patterns.
Ann from our perspective they've remained fairly favorable.
I mean our 3 major areas in terms of the consumer items within our total portfolio would be Grocery Products the Meat Products part of Refrigerated and Jennie-O Turkey Store.
And when I look at their focus items we have a lot more items that are gaining share and are gaining volume than we have that are flat or declining.
So again I think our team has a pretty good recipe right now for where they're putting their pricing where they're doing their promoting and what the advertising support that we're giving the items.
The advertising focus for the past year was clearly on both the Hormel brand and Jennie-O Turkey Store.
For 2012 we'll be adding a campaign that involves SPAM luncheon meat as well and so we think Grocery Products will benefit from that.
And then the MegaMex group also has advertised their major brands and those continue to gain slottings in the stores.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and then within Grocery Products can you get to the -- or can you stay at this mid-teens to high-teens margin range for fiscal '12? We've talked before.
The caveat I have to give you Ann is we're still kind of sorting through how we're going to handle in the long run these items that we're adding to the MegaMex portfolio.
So for example thus far Don Miguel and Fresherized show up on the equity and earnings line but the sales are not in our sales numbers.
That's different than the rest of MegaMex.
As we integrate those items in we may have to reassess that.
And so if they do get integrated in on a percentage basis that would lower our targets in terms of what grocery would deliver.
If everything stayed the same we would expect to sort of incrementally improve our results of Grocery Products from the level they were at in 2011 but it may not all stay the same.
Your next question is from the line of Eric Larson with Ticonderoga Securities.
Research Division</strong> There's been a lot of discussion on pricing this morning and I know it's a very uncomfortable place for everybody to go.
And this is just a very general question maybe it's more specifically can be answered for the Grocery Products area.
But when you look at your pricing strategies or maybe you can maybe just give me what your pricing results have been do you try to protect your dollar profits? Or do you try to protect your percentage margin? I guess of the 2 we tend to focus a little bit more on the dollar side.
But again it really does vary by the different categories.
I mean the retail consumer items are the ones that tend to move more slowly that you have to give a certain notice to the retailer that we really want to observe what you have -- on the plus side you have better data you have the Nielsen data and so forth to really show you what the sales trends are.
At the other end of the spectrum are the items that are much more market-based whole turkeys hams bacon et cetera.
Those move quickly.
There again you're just -- you're kind of trying to preserve I would say your dollar margin as best you can against what the cost inputs are.
And then within the foodservice trade it's much more customer-specific.
Some are on matrixes.
Some of them have certain notice requirements.
But again they're moving periodically to try to preserve a certain target margin range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's fair.
So with that as a comment I mean you could see more movement in your gross profit margin percentage-wise than -- and that would be a typical -- that would be something typically that we should we expect as analysts.
Well it's probably an item that we hone in on maybe a little less.
I mean you know what you're trying to ultimately bring home in dollars.
You see what kind of pressures you're under in terms of costs and what that does to price and the rest falls out in between there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's fair.
Then just the last follow-up question is I continue to see a lot of your advertising for Jennie-O in your -- in those turkey burger those campaigns that you have going out where you stop in a certain city and you feed everybody turkey burgers and show them the quality and the taste profile of those products.
And it seems to me that that would have -- should have very positive impacts on your volume growth on your prepared turkey burger business.
Do you have any results that you can share with us on that? I mean what -- I think you did a little bit in the last quarter.
I think you had very strong volume growth in Q3.
And I think you mentioned that specifically is one of the factors.
Is that continuing? We really -- we've been able to do this Make The Switch campaign starting in Q3 Q4 of last year and then it was off air for a while and then it is back on again in Q3 Q4 this year.
We've seen sustained volume trends on both turkey burgers and fresh tray pack that have been in the burgers' case solid double-digit and fresh tray pack ranging from high single digit to low double digit.
So we're very pleased with that.
It seems to also have this kind of spillover effect we're looking to have on our other branded items that the whole concept of making the switch for health reasons to turkey isn't limited to burgers.
We think that's a good carrier item.
But clearly -- and then I think -- frankly I think the team did a really wonderful job of branding the spot.
I think I might have mentioned at past conferences that our early efforts to really steer people on a healthful basis towards Jennie-O I think were good in terms of their message but they weren't necessarily strongly associated with the Jennie-O Turkey Store brand.
These new ads do a much better job of driving the brand as we've shown much enhanced awareness numbers for the brand.
Our next question is a follow-up from the line from Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just want -- this one's probably for Jody.
Just in terms of divisional EBIT what are your expectations for growth there? And if you could comment on the growth by division that will be great too.
I know you mentioned that Jennie-O Turkey you expect flat growth or flat profits next year.
But any color there would be very helpful because there's a lot of moving parts below the line.
Right and Akshay you're asking for directions that I don't have to give you and I would suggest you follow up with Kevin.
Operator I think that's it for the questions.
At this time I'd like to thank everybody for listening in and the analysts for the good questions and we wish everybody a happy Thanksgiving.
If Tim Ramey is still in the line he may have a line recommendation to pair with turkey.
He's probably not on the line any longer.
Happy Thanksgiving everyone.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Hormel Foods First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded today February 23 at 8:30 Central Standard Time.
I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Kevin Jones Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Hormel Foods conference call for the first quarter of fiscal 2012.
We released our results this morning before the market opened around 6:30 a.m.
Eastern Time.
If you did not receive a copy of the release you can find it on our website at www.hormelfoods.com under the Investors section.
On our call today is Jeff Ettinger Chairman of the Board President and Chief Executive Officer; and Jody Feragen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jeff will provide a review of the operating results for the quarter then Jody will provide detailed financial results for the quarter.
The line will be open for questions following Jody's remarks.
An audio replay of this call will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m.
Central Time today February 23 2012.
The dial-in number is 1 (800) 406-7325 and the access code is 4509484.
It will also be posted to our website and archived for one year.
Before we get started with the results of the quarter I need to reference the Safe Harbor statement.
Some of the comments made today will be forward-looking and made under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the statements we will be making.
Among the factors that may affect the operating results of the company are fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw materials and market conditions for finished products.
Please refer to Pages 27 through 30 in the company's annual report for the fiscal year ended October 30 2011 for more details.
It can be accessed on our website.
[Operator Instructions] And I'll now turn the call over to Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
We announced first quarter earnings this morning of $0.48 per share down 13% from a year ago.
During the quarter we experienced weak pork operating margins and soft sales in the center of the store.
Nonetheless our current performance represents the second best quarter in our company's history.
In terms of the top line we generated a sales increase of 6% with gains in 4 out of our 5 business segments.
Although total volumes declined 2% the majority of the decline was due to a planned reduction in harvest levels at our Jennie-O Turkey Store segment.
As you may recall from our November conference call we had anticipated a challenging start to 2012.
Though our overall results were not surprising how we got there wasn't exactly as we had planned.
Our Jennie-O Turkey Store segment performed better than we expected and International turned in a good quarter while our Refrigerated Foods Grocery Products and Specialty Foods segments did not perform as well as we had anticipated.
I will now take you through each segment.
For Grocery Products segment profit decreased 9% on 3% lower sales.
These results were prompted by significant input cost inflation and by decreased sales of our core products.
We have encountered some sluggishness as consumers adjust to higher prices.
Despite these conditions we are seeing continued growth of our MegaMex product lines.
Sales of Don Miguel products and the Wholly Guacamole refrigerated dips registered the biggest growth gain.
Sales of our Hormel Compleats microwave meals declined slightly during the quarter as our new advertising campaign and the new product varieties and packaging have not yet been fully implemented at the store level.
Our Refrigerated Foods segment reported a 44% decline in operating profit due primarily to unfavorable pork operating margins.
You may recall that pork operating margins were particularly strong during our first quarter a year ago.
Higher raw material costs also negatively impacted margins in our Meat Products group during the quarter.
Sales for our Refrigerated Foods grew 7% in the quarter led on the Retail side by Hormel's Sliced Pepperoni Hormel Country Crock Side Dishes and Hormel Natural Choice deli meats.
Foodservice sales were also higher with solid gains from Hormel Natural Choice deli meats AUSTIN BLUES barbecue products and Café H ethnic products.
Operating profit at our Jennie-O Turkey Store segment increased 4% on a sales increase of 4% driven primarily by expanded sales of our retail value added products.
Sales of our Jennie-O Turkey Store fresh tray pack items and turkey burgers were particularly strong as we continue to benefit from our Make the Switch advertising campaign late last year.
We reduced our harvest volumes during the quarter in order to better balance our turkey meat supplies.
Export demand also remains strong supporting dark meat prices during the quarter.
Our Specialty Foods segment operating profit declined 4% in the quarter as higher raw material and freight cost negatively impact results.
Sales by our Specialty Foods segment grew 14% during the quarter led by nutritional products private label canned meats and gelatin dessert products.
In our All Other international segment operating profit grew by 25% on a 17% increase in sales.
We enjoyed strong exports of fresh pork and sales growth in our SPAM family of products.
We also saw improved results at our Purefoods-Hormel joint venture in the Philippines.
As we stated in our Fourth Quarter Conference Call we anticipated a more difficult operating environment in 2012 and for comparisons to be more challenging in the first half and to become more favorable in the back half.
We look for pork operating margins to slowly improve as the year proceeds.
Grain costs will remain volatile this year but we expect our team at Jennie-O Turkey Store to continue to do a good job of maintaining margins.
We are optimistic that sales in our Grocery Products segment and our Meat Products group will improve during the remainder of the year as our Hormel and SPAM brand advertising campaigns gear up.
We expect our Foodservice Group to build upon their solid start this year as the foodservice industry shows gradual improvement.
We are looking for better results from our Specialty Foods segment going forward as sales should continue to grow and the pricing we have implemented takes effect.
We also anticipate enhanced operational efficiencies will improve profitability later in the year.
We expect continued growth from our International segment which is benefiting from a positive export environment and from their branding and marketing efforts.
Taking all these significant factors into account we are maintaining our fiscal 2012 earnings guidance range of $1.79 to $1.89 per share.
At this time I will turn the call over to Jody Feragen to discuss the financial information relating to the first quarter.
Thank you Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
Earnings for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 totaled $128.4 million or $0.48 per share compared to $148.8 million or $0.55 per share a year ago.
Dollar sales for the first quarter totaled $2 billion compared to $1.9 billion last year a 6% increase.
Volume for the first quarter was 1.2 billion pounds down 2% from fiscal 2011.
Selling general and administrative expenses in the first quarter were 7.5% of sales down slightly from 7.6% of sales last year.
Selling general and administrative expenses are expected to be between 7.5% and 8% of sales for the entire year.
Interest and investment income was $1.6 million for the first quarter compared to $441 000 last year.
Interest expense for the quarter was $3.2 million compared to $6.6 million last year.
With lower debt levels and decreased interest rates we expect interest expense to be approximately $12 million to $14 million for fiscal 2012.
Our effective tax rate in the first quarter was 33.4% versus 34.7% in fiscal 2011.
For total fiscal 2012 we expect the effective tax rate to be between 34% and 35%.
The basic weighted average number of shares outstanding for the first quarter was 264 million.
The diluted weighted average numbers of shares outstanding for the first quarter was 270 million.
We repurchased 380 000 shares of common stock during the first quarter spending $11.1 million.
We have 3 million shares remaining to be purchased from the current authorization in place.
Total debt at the end of the quarter was $250 million compared to $350 million last year.
Depreciation and amortization for the quarter was $31 million even with last year.
We expect depreciation and amortization to be approximately $115 million in fiscal 2012.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $29 million compared to $15 million last year.
For fiscal 2012 we expect capital expenditures to be about $140 million to $150 million.
We will be integrating the sales of Don Miguel Foods part of our MegaMex Foods joint venture beginning with our fiscal third quarter.
Our retail sales force will take responsibility for representing this expanded Mexican foods portfolio and we will report these sales in our Grocery Products segment.
Profits will continue to be accounted for through equity and earnings in the Grocery Products segment.
As a result added sales from the Don Miguel integration for the second half of 2012 are estimated to be between $75 million and $85 million.
At this time I will turn the call over to the operator for the question-and-answer portion.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Akshay Jagdale.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask you about your read-through on the consumer especially as it relates to Grocery Product volumes which you cited as being weak.
We have CAGNY and trying to get an explanation from one of the food companies as to why we've seen a weakness.
And I'd like you to just give us your perspective from a consumer insight standpoint.
So why do you think -- what's going on with the consumer? Why are we seeing weakness in the center of the store? Well there's a few factors that could be coming into play.
First of all as many of the companies in the industry have had to push pricing we certainly could be seeing consumer reaction to the pricing.
Typically over time as consumers get used to both the new shelf price and new feature price volumes return to a more normalized level.
Secondly it's really -- in our case there's certainly is a potential of some -- of a weather effect.
The areas where we saw the biggest weakness within Grocery Products were our canned good franchises which for example in the prior-year when there was a cold winter throughout the country and people were eating at home more often we saw quite strong sales and that was where our biggest declines occurred this quarter.
Really if you look at some of the other items within Grocery Products Compleats were down but they were only down 3% on a volume basis.
MegaMex was up 1% and that's not counting the Don Miguel sales which as Jody mentioned in the future will start counting within our total sales starting in the second half.
And then lastly we really have seen a mixed bag in terms of trends.
There's no question that in terms of our total groceries results the kind of tonnage that was delivered was lower than we had hoped.
But we had some areas of very strong tonnage within the retail franchise.
Our Natural Choice business did great during the quarter we had good growth in Pepperoni and Country Crock Jennie-O had big double-digit increases in their tray pack and burger numbers.
So if you get away from some of the center aisle areas we are still seeing very sold volume growth.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And just one for I think Jody or even you Jeff.
On the pork side why are -- in your opinion why are margins the cutouts below normalized levels right now? And why do you think they're going to get sort of trend towards the normalized level later this year? Good question.
I think you have to look at the comparisons that we have to the first quarter last year where we had abnormally large pork operating margins.
But as the market generally does it trends back to some more normalized levels.
The fact that we're seeing those tighter spreads in the first quarter of 2012 we would expect them to come back to more normalized levels but certainly below last year.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But why are they below normal? I understand the year-over-year comparisons are tough.
But just forgetting last year's outperformance I'm just saying -- I'm asking why do you think they're below normal? Is there weakness at the retail level? I mean I'm trying to understand why they're below normal they should be below year ago because year ago was too high but why do you think they're below normal? I would think that exports probably play a part in it.
So the demand side of exports have been strong.
We also saw perhaps a little bit larger harvest in the first quarter from the industry standpoint.
So whether that ran up the prices of live hogs that could be part of the impact.
Your next question comes from the line of Lindsay Mann.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted a couple of quick questions.
First of all I was a little bit surprised to see -- I mean I think the conventional view is that when Refrigerated Foods is weak from a margin perspective you get some offset in Grocery.
So can you just talk about the dynamics between the 2 divisions? I think what occurred this quarter that did sweep across both areas was unexpectedly high input costs and we knew it last summer they spiked.
We knew it for the full year this year we were looking at general increases but our early look had been this fall and early winter time frame would see more of a normal seasonal dip.
So that did not really occur.
And so when you get into whether its pork trim or some of the beef inputs those areas that affect both franchises.
So on Grocery it affects the SPAM it affects bacon bits when you have those higher pork inputs just as it does some of the items on the meat product side.
And then beef same thing.
Some of our meal-based items Dinty Moore et cetera have really felt the squeeze from those higher inputs than we had anticipated.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on Jennie-O the division continues to perform exceptionally well.
I'm just curious how you guys think about some of the commodity dynamics looking forward particularly on the supply side and how you're positioned to sort of mitigate those factors? Well I mean we are seeing some increase in egg sets and poult placements and an anticipation of an overall volume increase in turkey of probably 3% to 4%.
We're -- because we're so focused on our value-added portfolio we want to keep it our structure as tight as possible.
And that was part of why we went into this year with a diminished expectation in terms of overall production.
And so we have the right balance to be able to maintain values in those areas.
And in terms on how they're reacting in the marketplace I mean still very solid results on the retail side of the business.
A little more softness in foodservice and deli.
But overall obviously Jenny-O came through with a very strong quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Mr.
Ken Zaslow.
Just one question.
You did mentioned SPAM Hormel and party trays as well as Mary Kitchen and Hash can you just talk about how those brands are performing just to complete out the retail brands? Okay.
SPAM had quite a weak quarter on the domestic side a very strong quarter outside the United States and we sell almost as much SPAM outside of the United States now as we do in the U.S.
So that's the key driver to the success of the International business segment.
Solid quarter in terms of party trays.
Hash was down slightly not as much as Chili and SPAM.
-- I'm sorry you mentioned a fourth item I'm forgetting it.
What was the other one that you wanted to know our trend on? Hormel.
Just Hormel Chili or just...
Yes.
Just Hormel Chili yes.
Yes.
Our Hormel Chili was down in the high single-digit level so it was definitely a soft year kind of had that impact more similar to SPAM.
And when will the increased advertising start to hit that we could start to see maybe in retail a date that we could start to see the turn in the brands? Definitely.
So we the Compleats -- for the Hormel Brand campaign we're featuring 3 items this year: Natural Choice; Pepperoni; and Compleats.
That advertising first went on-air on the last 2 weeks of the quarter so not enough time to really impact Q1 but it's on-air right now.
In terms of our new SPAM Creative it's the first campaign we've had now in 3 years domestically for SPAM.
That goes on-air here in late February and should have us a decent impact on Q2 and going into Q3.
Great.
And my last question is the Specialty.
What's going to take that's up from -- like it seems to somewhat disappoint a little bit relative to our expectations and it seems like a business that should be starting to turn the corner and we anticipate it turning the corner.
But what's it going to take to actually make the business kind of get to that $20 million or $25 million operating profit per quarter? I think it's kind of higher than more normalized run rate.
Well I mean we had a good fourth quarter with Specialty Foods and we definitely anticipated doing better in the first quarter.
They didn't miss by a lot.
I mean it was in the range of $1 million.
And then there's a lot of things that can go on in a quarter that can lose you $1 million.
I think the team has their hands on those things.
We did see volume gains.
So we're good on the top line side in terms of Specialty Foods.
So it really is a matter of creating the right efficiencies in the business and getting their pricing up which they had to do that some during the first quarter and those will now be reflected in Q2.
Your next question comes from the line of Farha Aslam.
Research Division</strong> Could you just give us some more color on the MegaMex JV? In terms of what's the total sales of the JV what portion now is going to be in Hormel's P&amp;L and kind of what the operating profits are of the JV? And what we can expect on the -- come through on the equity income line? Well I think the sales part we certainly can give you some good color now.
The latter part we might need then -- maybe I'll do a follow-up with Kevin to give you that kind of level of detail.
In terms of sales what has been reflected thus far in the sales line in Grocery Products are both of the franchises that the partners brought to the MegaMex venture so that would be Herdez CHI-CHI'S MANNY'S El Torito La Victoria those types of items.
The 2 acquisitions that the joint venture has been subsequently made Don Miguel and Fresherized Foods to this date have not been reflected in sales.
They have flowed through to the extent we've owned them through equity and earnings on our half of the profits.
So what Jody announced this morning is starting the second half of fiscal 2012 we will be integrating the Don Miguel piece.
We will be selling it through our sales force and running it through our invoicing system and our distribution system.
And so from then on those sales will start being reflected within the GP sales results.
They won't change the profit any because we still had our 50% share of the profits already in that business.
And then in terms of the Wholly Guacamole the whole Fresherized side which is $100 million-plus in sales those are still not being reflected through even with this change.
We've just brought that on board and that's still being run separately.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so the margins in Grocery with all of these changes where would you expect full year EBIT margins in grocery to come out roughly? Well that's where -- I think we'd want to follow-up with you on that.
I mean this is going to be a partial year.
Clearly as we've kind of teed up in the past we recognized it as we bring in sales that only have 50% earnings component that's going to change the outlook in the long run as to what should you see for a percentage operating margin from Grocery it will lower it a little bit.
But in terms of the exact number on that we can give you what our normalized year will look like and maybe some sense for what the remainder of this year will look like.
But I can't really do it on the fly here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just more color on Jennie-O Turkey Store.
You had highlighted the value-added mix and highlighted that it was your promotional and sales efforts on that value-added product.
Did you get any benefit that's probably more permanent in terms of your gains and distribution because Cargill's issued earlier this year.
And is that sustainable longer term in terms of the distribution gains? And also do you have grain hedges that were better than the market that's flowing in helping those results? Okay I'll let Jody answer the second part.
In terms of the first part.
I think we probably saw a little bit of benefit from customers who had uncertainty about their supply availability in relation to Cargill's recall last year.
We're building franchises for the long term and we're really -- when we have dialogues with customers we make it pretty clear we're not looking to be a 3-month fill-in item.
There's this significant demand for this product line and we really look for customers who are going to build a program with us.
So we think the business that we've added on primarily is a business that should stick with our franchise and should benefit from the fact that we advertise the brand and we promote it very strongly in the marketplace.
As far as regarding hedges I would say that in 2011 we had a more aggressive position on our hedges as well as that more favorable prices than we do in 2012.
So we actually saw a rise in our overall feed costs for Jennie-O for the quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Ramey.
Research Division</strong> Jeff I'm still trying to get my hands around this Jennie-O Turkey Store result because it is stunningly good.
And I totally viewed last year's first quarter as an outlier not something that related to low-cost grain last year and difficult to repeat.
And you're not giving us a lot of kind of outlier sort of talk about this.
I mean you're verbiage sounds like this is somewhat normal and that would be awesome news if that's true.
But can you just kind of talk through this margin structure and should we be thinking of just structurally higher margins in Jennie-O going further forward? Well Tim our goal for Jennie-O this year was to have them hold their own as best as they could with a strong year last year.
And obviously they're off to a very good start in doing that.
We would certainly point out that our 20% operating quarter just as it was last year the Q1 and Q4 they're strong quarters that certainly is not the operating rate that we would anticipate maintaining throughout the year.
But we feel they're a combination of the promotions they've done the cost saving efforts that they have in place the pricing that they've pushed et cetera at this point puts them in a good position to deliver against that goal of holding their own for fiscal 2012.
In terms of the long-term I mean I think what we've suggested is we do think we've slid the range up and we do think we've narrowed the range by tightening our bird supplies and making sure we're not a big player in the commodity meat realm of turkey.
But clearly there still is potential --  it's not always going to be exactly on one number.
There still is a range of results that could happen at Jennie-O Turkey Store.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
You didn't view this as an outlier number.
I think last year you really did view the first quarter as an outlier number.
The Jennie-O performed probably a little better than we expected for the quarter so we're pleased with their performance.
But I don't see it as something that was a ridiculous outlier.
Your next question comes from the line of Diane Geissler.
Research Division</strong> I just want to ask about the second quarter trends and then maybe some of your commentary.
So I understand that there was maybe a little bit higher retailer stockouts during the December January time period and I just wanted to know if you've heard anything about that from your sales team? And then sort of what have shipments looked like here if you opened the second quarter? And then also just some clarity on your comments about how you expected the first half of the year to be challenging? I think consensus and I appreciate you don't give quarterly guidance anymore but I think consensus is looking for earnings to be up on a year-over-year basis.
But I guess is your commentary about the first half of the year being the tougher comps and a little bit tougher mean that you're looking for your budget says the second quarter's going to be down year-on-year? In terms of the first part of your question we -- I had not heard a lot from our group about retailer stockouts during that period of time.
So we wouldn't attribute our results on either direction to that.
Clearly the focus of the sales team within the Grocery area is to get the right mix of features pricing products to support the advertising that's about to get turned on and to then start getting -- reversing the trend in terms of those results.
We're just 3 weeks into the new year.
So I really don't -- excuse me the new quarter.
So I really don't have a read for you on that.
In terms of one of the other major drivers of results the pork packing margins that Jody referred to those are still quite soft right now and those are numbers that everybody can read and see.
In terms of a quarter I mean not wanting to sort of fall back into the mode of giving quarterly guidance I think I can at least say that our expectation for the unit -- for the total business for the quarter would be a flat to slightly up quarter.
That's the kind of range of results I guess we're looking at for Q2.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then can I just ask on the Foodservice? You're not alone in talking about some near-term strength that you're seeing in the Foodservice channel.
Do you attribute that to the weather impact? So people weren't snowbound this year they were out and about during the holiday time period or do you think that's -- so was it just sort of we got lucky with the weather or do you think it's a sign that the consumer has improved and we're going to see sort of a more sustainable trend there on Foodservice versus eating at home? Okay.
Our group once again was able to outperform the industry which is certainly one of the goals we have in terms of share within that category.
So the industry was up slightly and we certainly did a little bit better than that.
I would guess that there had to be some weather effect.
I mean if we're saying that that went away from some of the centers or sections in retail yet the same amount of meals were eaten ultimately clearly somebody benefited within the Foodservice segment.
I think our team right now would say that they're guardedly optimistic in terms of those volumes holding probably would have been even more so except that -- I don't know everyone's watching a little bit the recent spike in gas prices and what that might do to consumers.
But putting that aside we do feel we have momentum heading into the second quarter in terms of our Foodservice volume.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Moskow.
Research Division</strong> Actually I had a follow-up on I guess the explanations on pork margins and why they're weak.
I would've thought with exports being strong that that would be a positive for pork cutouts and you mentioned that as a negative.
And I'm just more curious about what you're seeing in terms of the packing facilities being disciplined.
I thought that was a big benefit in fiscal '11 a lot of capacity had come out of the system.
Are you seeing any industry capacity coming back in and is that adding to the issue on softer margins? I guess I'll take that Robert.
I haven't seen large-scale additions to capacity from a harvest standpoint.
But some of that can be impacted by the number of Saturdays that get operated within the industry.
And I think that we saw perhaps stronger than traditional numbers in the industry for the first quarter particularly in January.
So to me that drives up the price of the hog.
And then the export drives up the price of the components that go into the cutout out and we call the difference between the 2 the pork operating margin and that's as best as I've been able to understand what's impacting that and they still remain pretty soft today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So maybe some extra operating going on on Saturdays might have impacted it? It seems that way.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
And just Jeff your comment on second quarter being flat to a little bit up is that for the overall business? Yes that was company-wide.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Refrigerated Foods was well below my expectations here on profits but sales were well above.
I guess you attribute it to just really just the pork cutouts.
If you strip out the pork cutouts were things pretty much in line with the year ago on a Refrigerated basis? Well the other thing that hurt us during the quarter was kind of what I was alluding to when I asked the question earlier about going across the franchises.
The second piece was in addition to the margin of processing being squeezed but the absolute value of the primals was higher than we thought and not just the primals the trim et cetera.
And so there were cases particularly within our retail portfolio where we did experience some margin squeeze during the quarter just because those inputs were higher than what we had anticipated.
And in Retail I mean the pricing is just slower.
I mean you tend to have to give 60 days notice and honor your features and so forth.
Our Foodservice Group did a better job of being very current with the pricing versus these changes in cost.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Larson.
Research Division</strong> I just want to drill down Jeff just a little bit more in your turkey margins.
I know that maybe it's 12 or 24 months ago you folks took a much more aggressive cost cutting approach to that business.
You did make a big splash of it -- you just mentioned that you did make a big splash but you didn't quantify necessarily the numbers.
But I remember it was a fairly significant program.
Is that -- would that be now -- past you would that be -- starting to be reflected in your margins at Jennie-O? And I know that last year you did not have a market-to-market gain in that 20% margin and it looks like you actually had up-costs this year.
So it is a surprising margin and I'm just trying to get a better feel for i.e.
sustainability.
It really kind of relates along to Tim Ramey's question.
Sure.
On the second part I mean we look at cost on a total cost-in basis and that's what the team is seeking to price against and that's when they look to try to manage their whole system in terms of total cost.
Then say okay netting in your hedge netting in everything you see with your grain positions and what the current market is what's it going to take to deliver a decent margin within the business and the team's done a very good job of that.
In terms of timing I think the impact of most of those efficiency changes that we've been seeing now for 5 quarters.
I mean that they've been in place and the team continues to do a good job of bringing those home.
So that definitely was a focus for the group.
Probably occurred over a couple-year time frame and is still being executed very well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just this next question which is my last one it's sort of an odd-ball question.
I noticed that you'd mentioned in your press release that Country Crock is still a registered trademark of the Unilever group? I would have thought that you would have gotten that trademark through the acquisition.
Does Unilever use the Country Crock trademark internationally or something or what? How come you were not able to secure the trademark for Country Crock when you acquired the business? The Country Crock brand actually had a much more significant presence for Unilever in the margarine segment.
And so that business they are still selling everywhere.
So what we have is a transitional agreement.
We have the right to continue to use the brand in this category for it's either 3 years or 4 years somewhere in that ballpark.
We're already in the process of transitioning the item.
We've added the Hormel brand to it so it's now Hormel Country Crock.
We note from our consumer research that frankly the colors and shape of the product are very -- of the package is very important also.
So we have a high degree of confidence that as we phase out of the Country Crock brand again we won't miss a beat and the consumers will understand the product.
And in a way it will actually probably help us in the long run because we're selling it right with our Hormel Entrées and so it allows us to promote them with the same brand name.
So we're in good shape with that but we still have -- you'll probably still see the Country Crock on there for at least a little while longer.
Research Division</strong> Yes I think I did.
I think you actually co-brand Country Crock/Hormel on the package right now.
I think that's what I -- I was just curious as to what that arrangement was.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from Christine McCracken.
Sorry for the background noise I'm here at USDA.
I was just curious on your export outlook for pork.
If you look at the record numbers we had in 2011 especially with foot and mouth in Korea as the big orders into China in the second half.
I'm just curious as you look out at this year and your expectations around pork margins I'm wondering how should we think about the potential hurdles there? Are you still looking for another record year to top last year? Could there be some additional pressure if things start to slow down a little? It seems like you've mentioned that it's a little softer here to start the year.
I'm just curious how should we think about that? Well I wish I had a crystal ball.
We've had extremely strong exports for 2 years 2 years of record so record-over-record.
Is that sustainable for a third year? They seem to be strong now but currency has a lot to do with the impact on that.
I don't -- I would guess that they'll still be strong but I would probably suggest that they won't be record and that's just my opinion.
So with nearly 30% of pork going into export markets couldn't that put some additional pressure on pricing overall? And then as it relates to your portfolio how should we factor that in? Well I mean it definitely factors into the overall processing margin in terms of what the primals are worth and the product costs.
I mean the other element for us to point out at Hormel though in terms of the kind of sales impact is we're really not a big player in terms of some of the more primal-oriented export markets in the area of pork.
We tend to do more specialty items in those markets.
And those have been -- we've grown them but that's been much more consistent and it's much less susceptible to what the current market is.
Your next question comes from the line of the Mr.
Robert Moskow.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick reminder is Don Miguel accretive in the back half of the year to EPS? Yes.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> By how much? We haven't really specified with the different Mexican acquisitions.
It's definitely providing a benefit though to the overall GP franchise.
Research Division</strong> Seems like bigger than a pepperoni stick with me or bigger than a...
I mean from a sales standpoint we gave you some color of between $75 million and $85 million that would happen in the back half of the year.
And that -- and we had a pro forma we did the business acquisition on and it's meeting or even slightly exceeding that pro forma.
So we're very happy with it.
Mr.
Jones there are no further questions at this time.
Please continue.
Okay.
Thank you all for participating in the call.
Please feel free to follow up with me with any follow-up questions.
Otherwise thank you for listening in.
And have a great day.
Bye-bye.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the conference call for today.
Thank you for participating.
Please disconnect your lines.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Hormel Foods Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today May 23 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Kevin Jones Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Hormel Foods conference call for the second quarter of fiscal 2012.
We released our results this morning before the market opened around 6:30 a.m.
Eastern Time.
If you did not receive a copy of the release you can find it on our website at www.hormelfoods.com under the Investors section.
On our call today is Jeff Ettinger Chairman of the Board President and Chief Executive Officer; and Jody Feragen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jeff will provide a review of the operating results for the quarter then Jody will provide detailed financial results.
The line will be open for questions following Jody's remarks.
An audio replay of this call will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m.
Central Time May 23 2012.
The dial-in number is (800) 406-7325 and the access code is 4535051.
It will also be posted to our website and archived for 1 year.
Before we get started with the results of the quarter I need to reference the Safe Harbor statement.
Some of the comments made today will be forward-looking and are made under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the statements we will be making.
Among the factors that may affect the operating results of the company are fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw materials and market conditions for finished products.
Please refer to Pages 28 through 35 in the company's 10-Q for the quarter ended January 29 2012 which was filed with the SEC on March 9 2012.
It can be accessed on our website.
[Operator Instructions] Now I will turn the call over to Jeff.
Thanks Kevin and good morning everyone.
We are pleased to announce a record quarter for both earnings and sales.
Earnings for our second quarter were $0.48 per share up 20% from a year ago 4 of 5 segments contributed to these results.
Sales increased 3% during the quarter and again we're up in 4 out of 5 segments.
Total volume declined 2% though much of the decline was due to reduced sales of commodity meat in both our Refrigerated Foods and Jennie-O Turkey Store segments.
This quarter once again demonstrates the benefit of our balanced model as the strong performances by our Jennie-O Turkey Store and All Other International segment and year-over-year gains by Grocery Products and Specialty Foods more than made up for the softer results by our Refrigerated Foods segment.
I will now take you through each segment.
For Grocery Products segment profit increased 10% on a 1% sales increase.
We again experienced softness in center of the store sales during Q2 but we did see some improvement in comparison with the first quarter.
Sales of our SPAM family of products grew during the quarter aided by our fresh round of advertising featuring a new animated character Sir Can-A-Lot.
It is noteworthy that this product line is celebrating its 75th anniversary this year and is still growing both in the U.S.
and abroad.
Sales of our Compleats microwave meals were soft along with the category.
Our new product packaging and several new product varieties have still not been fully reflected in retail stores.
We will continue to advertise our Hormel brand which features this product line along with Hormel Natural Choice deli meat and Hormel pepperoni.
We are pleased with the growth of our MegaMex food product line led by Wholly Guacamole refrigerated dip and [indiscernible] Salsa.
We have also rolled out some new varieties of our Wholly refrigerated salsas.
Our Refrigerated Foods segment reported a 25% decline in operating profit due primarily to unfavorable pork operating margins.
The company overall did benefit during the quarter from lower pork raw material cost for our value-added products benefiting foodservice and meat products within Refrigerated Foods.
Sales for our Refrigerated Foods segment declined 1% in the quarter reflecting lower sales of commodity pork.
The team reduced harvest level during the quarter in order to limit our exposure to the unfavorable pork operating margin.
Sales of retail value-added products grew led by Hormel Natural Choice deli meats Hormel party trays Hormel sliced pepperoni and our Di Lusso Deli products.
Foodservice sales were also higher with solid gains from Hormel Natural Choice deli meats Café H ethnic products and Hormel premium bacon.
Our Jennie-O Turkey Store segment had another outstanding quarter with segment profit -- operating profit up 50% on a sales increase of 7% driven primarily by expanded sales of our retail value added products.
Jennie-O Turkey Store's results also demonstrate efficiency gains throughout its farms plant and supply chain.
Sales of our Jennie-O Turkey Store fresh tray pack items and turkey burgers were particularly strong as we continue to benefit from our Make the Switch advertising campaign late last year.
Our Specialty Foods segment operating profit increased 9% in the quarter as pricing actions taken earlier this year offset higher raw material cost.
Sales by our Specialty Foods segment grew 12% during the quarter led by private label canned meat ingredient sales and bulk and nutritional products.
In our All Other International segment operating profit grew 52% and sales increased 11% due primarily to strong exports of fresh pork product and sales growth in our SPAM family of products.
We also saw improved results at our Purefoods-Hormel joint venture in the Philippines.
As we stated in our fourth quarter conference call last year we anticipated a more difficult operating environment in 2012 and for comparisons to be more challenging in the first half.
Our strong performance in Q2 brings us back to even in terms of earnings per share at the halfway point of the year.
Heading into the second half of the year our Grocery Products Specialty Foods and International segments are positioned well to contribute solid earnings growth.
In particular we expect continued strong performance from our international team which is benefiting from a positive export environment and from their branding and marketing efforts.
The run of gains at Jennie-O Turkey Store has lasted longer than I originally anticipated and the recent decline in commodity turkey values coupled with higher grain inputs may slow these gains going forward.
We do plan on running a new advertising campaign later this year to help drive the continued growth in the sales of our value-added turkey products.
We look for our Refrigerated Foods segment to improve in the back half of the year through improved margins and sales of our value-added products even as pork operating margins remain below typical levels.
Taking all of these significant factors into account we are maintaining our fiscal 2012 earnings guidance range of $1.79 to $1.89 per share.
At this time I will turn the call over to Jody Feragen to discuss the financial information relating to the second quarter.
Thank you Jeff.
Good morning.
Earnings for the second quarter of fiscal 2012 totaled $127.9 million or $0.48 per share compared to $109.6 million or $0.40 per share a year ago.
Earnings for the first half of fiscal 2012 were $256.3 million or $0.95 per share compared to $258.4 million or $0.95 per share last year.
Dollar sales for the second quarter totaled $2.01 billion compared to $1.96 billion last year a 3% increase.
For the first half dollar sales increased 4% to $4.05 billion.
Volume for the second quarter was 1.2 billion pounds down 2% from fiscal 2011.
Year-to-date volume was 2.41 billion pounds down 2% compared to last year.
Selling general and administrative expenses in the second quarter were 7.4% of sales down from 8.2% last year.
Year-to-date selling general and administrative expenses were 7.4% compared to 7.9% last year.
SG&amp;A expenses are expected to be around 7.5% of sales for the remainder of the year.
Interest and investment income was $2.3 million for the second quarter compared to $2 million last year.
Year-to-date interest in investment income was $3.9 million compared to $2.9 million a year ago.
Interest expense for the quarter was $3.3 million compared to $7.2 million last year.
For the first half of fiscal 2012 interest expense was $6.5 million compared to $13.8 million a year ago.
With lower debt levels and decreased interest rates we expect interest expense to be approximately $12 million to $14 million for fiscal 2012.
Our effective tax rate in the second quarter was 33.5% versus 33.9% in fiscal 2011.
The year-to-date effective tax rate is 33.5% compared to 34.4% last year.
For fiscal 2012 we expect the effective tax rate to be between 33.5% and 34.5%.
The basic weighted average number of shares outstanding for the second quarter was 264 million.
The diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding for the second quarter was 269 million.
We repurchased 1.1 million shares of common stock during the second quarter spending $31 million.
We have 1.9 million shares remaining to be purchased from the current authorization in place.
Total long-term debt at the end of the quarter was $250 million unchanged from last year.
Depreciation and amortization for the quarter was $29 million compared to $31 million last year.
Year-to-date depreciation and amortization totaled $59.7 million compared to $62.3 million a year ago.
We expect depreciation and amortization to be approximately $115 million in fiscal 2012.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $28 million compared to $19 million last year.
For the first half capital expenditures were $58 million compared to $36 million last year.
For fiscal 2012 we expect capital expenditures to be approximately $120 million to $130 million.
As we mentioned last quarter we integrated the sales of Don Miguel Foods part of our MegaMex Foods joint ventures starting with our fiscal third quarter.
Our retail sales force has responsibility for representing this expanded Mexican foods portfolio and we will report these sales in our Grocery Product segment.
Profits will continue to be accounted for through equity and earnings in the Grocery Products segment.
As a result added sales from the Don Miguel integration for the second half of 2012 are estimated to be $80 million to $90 million.
At this time I will turn the call over to the operator for the question-and-answer portion of the call.
Operator.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Farha Aslam from Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Could you just provide us some more color around the turkey business in terms of -- for the full year what do you think volumes and kind of sales and operating profits will do for that division? Volume will probably continue to trend slightly down because it's based primarily on the total number of turkeys we're bringing into the operation and we said we are running a tight operation this year on that basis.
We would expect net sales to be up somewhat as pricing has -- we've had to take pricing in the past and that will continue to roll through in the second half of the year.
In terms of earnings the unit obviously has done very well thus far this year.
They will be facing more pressure in the form of increased grain costs in the second half and the commodity markets have gone down somewhat in terms of the commodity meat sales.
So those will pressure their ability to continue to deliver the very large gains that we've seen thus far.
But overall we think that business is positioned well and with the ad campaign we mentioned and continued spending against the value-added line we still have a positive outlook for Jennie-O for the remainder of the year.
Research Division</strong> So you expect profits to be up year-over-year in that division by ’13 would you say? Well clearly for the year based on the strong start they're going to be up.
We're not going to give a specific segment-by-segment amount in terms of exactly what we're looking at for Jennie-O but we talked early in the conference call at the end of last year about them holding their own.
They've done more than hold their own thus far.
They may have enough momentum to be able to continue to generate positive gains.
But the floor we would see would be to be able to at least hold their own at last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just a follow-up Jody on the corporate expense it's kind of down almost half year-over-year.
I was wondering what drove that and if you could just give us a color on what it's going to be for the full year as well as what interest expenses for the full year.
I gave that as part of the script Farha.
So let me pull back to make sure I state it correctly.
But our general corporate expenses were positively impacted by our insurance experience if you will.
Our medical and pension accounts ended up being more positive this year versus last year when we had some unfavorable trends.
For your other question -- and for the full year we expect it to be more around the 7.5% in net sales for total SG&amp;A.
And then interest expense we're looking at the $12 million to $14 million.
Really we're down in the level of debt that we have and the interest rate is much lower on the bonds that's outstanding.
And our next question comes from the line of Christine McCracken from Cleveland Research.
I just wanted to dig a little bit into your -- what appears to be export strength in your All Other segment.
It does seem like things have slowed a little there.
I'm just curious if you could detail and/or provide any color around pockets of strength.
I think you mentioned your Philippines joint venture.
But specifically if you have any other color around that segment that could help us understand what you're looking for over the balance of the year.
Well general export the one area we've seen a little bit of a slowdown would be Korea given that last year they had foot and mouth issues and their herd has come back to about 90% of where it was.
Even with that our numbers year-over-year for the quarter were pretty favorable or down slightly in Korea.
We more than made up for that with the rest of the Asian markets and when it comes to fresh pork.
And then in terms of some of our partnerships you correctly referenced the San Miguel Philippine partnership as being very favorable for the quarter.
We continue to improve our results in China albeit it's still not a large contributor to the bottom line but it's heading in the right direction.
So we're comfortable with our Asia focus and it's a combination of pork items both fresh and processed.
And then SPAM is a very important product in the Philippines and Korea or Okinawa.
We're working to make it more important in Japan through our ad campaign there and we're back in China working on trying to build the marketplace in China for SPAM as well.
Just as a follow-up when I think about this business going forward prices have softened a little but it seems like your volumes probably see a pickup as a result.
Long term is this a business that you think can continue to grow at this pace? Obviously it's hard to make long-term estimates based on kind of what we're seeing globally but it seems like pork's still a popular item around the world.
Is that something you expect to continue? Well Christine your question focuses on international I'm assuming still? Yes yes.
Okay.
Yes yes our expectation for International is that it would continue to grow at rates that are higher than our company-wide goals which are the 5% revenue and 10% earnings growth.
They've certainly been delivering on that strongly the last couple of years and based on the various branded franchises we have in place in different markets right now we look at that very favorably.
Our next question comes from the line of Diane Geissler from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I have a question.
How did the quarter rate versus what your internal budgeting had been looking for coming into it? And then to the extent that it was either ahead of plan or on plan why the conservatism on the full year outlook? Certainly you were significantly higher than consensus.
So maybe we were just all wrong versus your budget but just trying to figure out if there's something a particular headwind that you're concerned about is the grain prices in turkey or pork cutout or why keep the guidance where it is? We talked at the beginning of the year about how we expected the first half of the year to be difficult and that we would see most of the gains -- and we provided a guidance range that clearly was going to be hopefully our 27th up year in our last 30 years.
When all said and done for the half we're at even.
We probably did a little bit better in the second quarter than I originally anticipated and a little bit worse in the first quarter with refrigerated experiencing a lot more significant challenges with the processing margin.
You identified a couple of things that are certainly watch-outs going forward in terms of the pork operating margins are still poor right now.
The center of store volumes although improving sequentially are still not to where we'd like them to be.
But we feel we can more than offset those with the positive momentum going on in specialty with our other grocery items with our Foodservice and meat products with Jennie-O's branded items.
And so as we sit here today we net out that to hit our guidance range we'll have to have continued up quarters in the high-single digits to low-double digit range.
And we think that's probably a reasonable range right now for the remainder of the year.
Research Division</strong> And has the pork operating margin improved since the start of the third quarter? It's bounced around.
It improved some initially and the very current picture is not very pretty right now.
Research Division</strong> So would you say there's really no discernible trend yet on pork cutouts? I would agree with that.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Ramey from D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Just to take another cut at the Jennie-O Turkey Store question which obviously these results have just been stunningly good.
I think you mentioned in your prepared remarks you thought the gains have been strong and the gains would slow.
If that's -- I just want to verify that that's exactly what you mean rather than things will start to have tough comps or down comps.
If you continue to think that we're going to have up numbers in Jennie-O Turkey Store at least I for one have been way too bearish on that.
Well through the half their segment profit is up 22%.
Our best look right now I would say that they should not be continuing at that kind of an increased rate for the remainder of the year.
However we do believe at this point that they should be able to still generate a positive second half year-over-year and it will be somewhere between that as an up end and flat as a down end.
Research Division</strong> And I guess just thinking about it seems early to be starting to think about fiscal '13.
But at some point these numbers become comps.
We thought they were going to be difficult comps in 2012 and you've been able to continue to generate great returns there.
Has your thinking changed about -- I mean should we be thinking about Jennie-O Turkey Store as a 19% 20% EBIT margin kind of business now? I think I would agree that that's probably above the high end of where we think our run rate would be on an annualized basis.
They ended last year at 14%.
They'll clearly do a little bit better than that this year.
Obviously we've not done any budgeting yet for 2013.
Well looking at the crystal ball as you are clearly their comps will be challenging again for next year.
I would say at least as where we sit here today that frankly Refrigerated Foods comps will be not as challenging and so that could be an area where we would make that up.
And then ultimately it's the same old story.
It's that -- what are the value-added franchises within all these business units doing and as long as we can continue to drive growth there we should be in good shape long term.
Research Division</strong> And Jody did you say anything about your -- if you did I missed it.
The length of your corn forward purchase commitment at this point? Your general view on do we want to be long or short? Our traditional hedging policy is 25% to 75%.
Last year 2011 we were probably on the high side of that range this year we're probably more in the middle side of that range.
And obviously we look for input from the business units to secure positions that they think they can live with in the marketplace.
So we do have some for 2012 and some for 2013.
Our next question comes from the line of Lindsay Drucker Mann from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to talk a little more about Jennie-O.
You had pretty fantastic flow-through of the incremental sales to your margins something like 100% incremental margins.
And you mentioned a couple of buckets of drivers of that including shift to value-add and some cost efficiency programs.
Could you go a little bit deeper into the kind of what drive -- what drove what proportion of the incremental margin in the quarter? I guess the best I can do with that on the value-added side was that our kind of the star performer in terms of being able to continue to generate not only net sales growth but volume growth was the retail area.
That retail fresh tray pack franchise that frankly we acquired back in 2001 from the Turkey Store and that our team's done a great job of growing ever since is very robust right now.
It's been well supported by the ad campaign that we ran the last 2 years and that we're intending to run again this fall.
And so that's been a key driver on the value-added side.
And that being said both the foodservice and deli sides of the business have really been holding their own in a challenging environment where price often has to be pushed but they really done a nice job of maintaining volume there.
In terms of efficiencies they really are kind of across-the-board that's by far the most vertical part of our business all the way from breeder hatchery operations to feed mills to owning our own barns in many case.
And also partnering with family farms in the area in terms of grow out.
We've been able to really push improvements throughout that aspect of the supply chain through our plant operations and through our logistics area and those are all paying off for Jennie-O in terms of offsetting a lot of those other green input increases.
Research Division</strong> Would you normally expect the incremental volume in the retail piece or any of the buckets of the end markets to drive full flow-through to profits or shouldn't be there's some sort of variable margin associated with the typical sales growth story? I mean not having the benefit of the model you're running I will say that in general our philosophy in the company is not only convert commodity to value add but to move value add up a value chain that ultimately does widen the margin.
As we innovate with new products we look for higher returns on innovative new items and there may be a category that has a lot of competition and has been around a while.
So in the long run we do think the flow-through ought to be quite good.
I don't know whether dollar for dollar is a realistic expectation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you just give us a sense of what the breakout of the mix is now of value-added versus the commodity meat within that division? At Jennie-O? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I mean on a dollar sales basis Jennie-O is close to 80% value added.
On a tonnage basis -- now assuming we internally frankly count the whole bird part as more of a commodity aspect of the business.
It is branded but it behaves more on markets and so forth.
So assuming that volume is in the commodity volumes then the volumes are probably closer to 60% value added and 40% in the other category.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then just lastly I know that this is a much smaller piece of your overall business but can you comment at all on what you think has been driving some of the pressure in the fresh pork business? Some industry participants have talked about pink slime as having some negative spillover effect perhaps some change in exports perhaps some change in some of the competitive activity any perspective you can add as to why we're seeing the magnitude of margin pressure we are in this business would be helpful.
So I don't know if you're talking about the pork operating margins.
But generally what we've seen is real softness in the domestic market for pork products.
Some speculation that it's retailers holding the price and consumers not buying into that franchise.
And then for the price of hogs I'm still mystified as why they continue to drive up in this type of an environment.
Our next question comes from the line of Rohan Patkar from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> This is Akshay Jagdale actually.
My question was on the pork processing side actually just -- what's your impression of what happened that resulted in lower packer margins? And just a follow-up to that how are you thinking about those factors as we move forward? Well we certainly did not expect that for the second quarter the pork operating margins would be negative.
And as I indicated before it seems to be a combination of softer domestic demand on the cutout side and more demand for the hogs that run up prices on that side of the business.
Going forward outlook for the year would be that those pork operating margins would remain below the levels of last year but improving in the fall as we get into a traditionally more robust season for production on the hogs side.
Research Division</strong> So that -- just to be clear so that improvement in margins will be a result of better domestic demand? Is that sort of a seasonal factor that you're applying? My seasonal factor was related to the production of hogs.
So more hogs on the ground in the fall as we traditionally see but still thinking that pork operating margins will be below last year's level.
Research Division</strong> But demand will be -- you are assuming that demand will get better? Probably expecting the cutouts to be below last year as well.
Our next question comes from the line of Ken Zaslow from BMO Capital Markets.
In terms of the center of the store can you talk about what you think the drivers have been to why -- you guys are not the only packaged food company to actually talk about the center of store being a little sluggish.
Can you talk about what you think the macro environment is that's keeping it from happening -- from accelerating? And then what are you guys doing to compensate for that and to drive center of the store -- consumers back to the center of the store? Okay.
Yes I mean everyone kind of has theories on it.
We certainly believe there has been some effect related to pricing that a lot of manufacturers have been confronted with steep increases in raw materials in the types of products that go center of the store.
And that have therefore had to push pricing.
And we're no exception to that.
So at some point if you take a couple of rounds of price increases if there's at least some short-term resistance to those levels those could be being reflected.
Tied in with that would be we are seeing a change in terms of promotional behavior and response where say the kind of deals that many retailers would do 10 for 10s 10 cans of something for $10 et cetera that those just are not receiving the response they used to.
At least that's been our experience.
I think when you do have a cash-strapped consumer they still like the items but they're just not willing to load in the pantry at that kind of a level so that creates year-over-year comp challenges.
We definitely feel there has at least been some weather effect I would concede that that only make sense with items that seem to be more -- like in our case canned chili that had a not-so-great half.
This year's winter has been very benign.
The year before was very cold.
A lot of weekends lost to the Foodservice trade where people ate at home.
In terms of what we're doing to combat it a lot of it is just that day-to-day work you do through your sales organization with the retailers.
But on top of that advertising is clearly very important.
We're going to be advertising a really wide array of our products during the second half of the year.
So on the Hormel side it's -- Compleats will continue to have a campaign as well as Natural Choice.
We'll be advertising SPAM and SPAM seems to be responding well to it.
We even saw that during the second quarter.
Jennie-O Turkey Store will have a new campaign and then our MegaMex venture has 3 different brands that they advertise.
And MegaMex is still generating positive volume even in this environment.
So my one follow-up is why would marketing ebb and flow? Why isn't it not more consistent throughout a year? I guess that's my follow-up.
Okay.
I mean even though I mentioned to you the second half programs we're running these have all been set well in advance.
And we kind of set a program it depends on seasonality of products it depends -- in the case of the Hormel brand we try to do it on a complementary basis so that maybe in the winter we're running pepperoni more that's more for kind of cooking up and heating up at home or having snacks.
Natural Choice for example is the third Hormel brand that we're advertising.
That's sandwich meats mostly and that's more of a summer item.
So I mean we'd love to have the kind of budget where we'd be on all year.
And someday maybe we'll work our way up to that but I'm using it in a prudent fashion.
We lay out an advertising calendar well in advance and there is some seasonality to that.
And our next question comes from Robert Moskow from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess my question is that you've seen in the Refrigerated Foods business a normalization of margins back to your historical range of 5% to 7% even at the low end.
And then you have the turkey business which is really elevated here.
I know you're saying that that's not sustainable.
But you're still saying that it is going to be well above what you had thought was a normalized margin of I think it was like 9% to 10%.
So what is it about the turkey business today that you think is different about the refrigerated business so that we can hold on to these -- hold on to margins maybe in the teens instead of going all the way back down to 9% to 10%? Well on the refrigerated side I would argue that we're on the low end of where we belong and in that area and that we need to through better macro conditions but more importantly through added value-added sales in foodservice and meat products eventually get our way up to that higher end of that range.
On the turkey side internally our expectation has to be a little bit higher in terms of returns to that business because of the verticality.
I mean we have a lot more capital invested at Jennie-O and that's what you're hopefully getting for that investment is better overall returns.
But clearly at least for now we seem to have hit on a good formula of driving efficiencies in the operation most of which I don't expect to just vanish.
I mean these are systemic changes that they have made that should be positive going forward.
And then supporting branded differentiated items through advertising and other programs with the retailer that should continue to allow those franchisees to grow.
After these couple of years I mean I think as we head into 2013 we'll probably assess okay is there a new guidance level range for where we would expect Jennie-O to be? But we're still kind of in the middle of this year now and so I don't really have that for you yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But the pieces you're putting together here on Jennie-O that would justify a higher normalized margin -- is the level of investment that you've made in terms of creating value added -- that's different from 5 years ago? Is it also maybe just the consumer is still in the early stages of per capita consumption on value-added turkey and that's changed versus 5 years ago or am I in the right direction? Well those are important.
The export picture is a lot more favorable today and has steadily been that way but increasing over the last few years.
So that definitely provides some added value in a system where you're still -- a lot of the dark meat is going outside the United States.
So that's a positive.
The more years that go by from the acquisition I know it's now been 10 but there's times that you find opportunities to consolidate your facilities to utilize your raw materials better to purchase better and so forth.
And those have been kind of rolling forward as well through their system.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Eric Larson from CL King &amp; Associates.
A couple of questions.
The first one is probably for Jody.
Jody just for clarification the first half of this current fiscal year MegaMex was accounted for only as an equity -- the only P&amp;L item was equity earnings.
Is that correct? Well it's a little more complicated than that.
MegaMex the core products that were in the original joint venture have always been sold by our consumer product sales force.
So those sales have been included in Grocery Products.
So that would be the Herdez items the La Vic items the CHI-CHI items and I know I'm forgetting something.
As MegaMex acquired additional businesses Don Miguel and Fresherized Foods some of the products that Jeff talked about they were included only in equity of earnings because they were being sold outside the Hormel CPS organization.
We have now integrated Don Miguel to take advantage of some synergies particularly our sales force.
So those Don Miguel sales starting in this third quarter and going forward will show up in the Grocery Products top line but not -- but still be accounted for in equity and earnings.
Fresherized Foods at some point in time we'll look to see if that fits within our Consumer Product Sales organizations to see if there's anything there.
But right now it's Don Miguel and the traditional MegaMex items.
Okay.
What were the Don Miguel sales for the first half I would assume you're not going to restate any of that so you'll have that positive impact on your top line in Grocery for your first half next year.
So what was roughly your sales for the first half in that business? Don Miguel? I would tell you that the $80 million to $90 million range that I gave you for the back half is about what they delivered in the front half.
Okay.
That's fair.
I thought maybe you had maybe mentioned that and I may have missed it.
The next question is when you look at your commodity costs outlook for turkey obviously in the very short run if you're short you're getting penalized because of the [indiscernible] both in corn and soybeans.
That will probably change for corn going forward soybeans is probably going to be higher.
But I guess the real question is what is the mix of those 2 commodities that you feed your turkeys? Is it 50/50? Is it 40% soybean meal 60% corn? What is roughly the mix of feed to your livestock? Well it varies by season and what we're trying to accomplish.
But just to give you a rough estimate it would be more like 2/3 1/3 corn to soy meal.
And our next question is from Ann Gurkin from Davenport.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask a question on Jennie-O.
How has the selling been for the Thanksgiving holiday? Is that meeting expectations? Yes.
We're in good shape with it.
It does cause volume changes in our sales numbers because it's really -- we make it up to the customer as to when they take delivery.
And this year some of them are taking delivery a little later than they did last year so we actually have a little more inventory than we have in the past.
But it's committed so we're in good shape for that.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then Jody continue to see cash build which is a good thing.
Any updates on potential acquisitions or use of cash or anything there that you could help us with? I don't really have an update but I have said in the past obviously we look to invest in our businesses and continue to look at strategic opportunities in the acquisition area.
Anything that's a market leader or something that provides scale something that's accretive from a margin and sales standpoint.
We have made a commitment to higher capital level -- CapEx spending this year with some expansion of facilities actually adding some more capacity in our value-added areas.
We've made a commitment to our shareholders on dividends and we continue to perform very well in that area.
And then opportunistically looking at share repurchase.
I would just add I mean we're very happy with the couple of Mexican acquisitions we have made in the last couple of years.
So about this time last year we talked about Wholly Guacamole it's just been a great addition to the franchise.
And Don Miguel continues to grow nicely also for MegaMex.
[Operator Instructions] And there are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn it back for any closing remarks.
Very good.
Thank you everyone for listening in on our call.
Feel free to follow up with me with any additional questions Kevin Jones.
And have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Hormel Foods Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Basically we'd like to thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Hormel Foods Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today August 23 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Kevin Jones.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Hormel Foods Conference Call for the Third Quarter of Fiscal 2012.
We released our results this morning before the market opened around 6:30 a.m.
Eastern Time.
If you did not receive a copy of the release you can find it on our website at www.hormelfoods.com under the Investors section.
On our call today is Jeff Ettinger Chairman of the Board President and Chief Executive Officer; and Jody Feragen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jeff will provide a review of the operating results for the quarter then Jody will provide detailed financial results for the quarter.
The line will be open for questions following Jody's remarks.
[Operator Instructions] An audio replay of this call will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m.
Central Time today August 23 2012.
The dial-in number is (800) 406-7325 and the access code is 4556709.
It will also be posted to our website and archived for 1 year.
Before we get started with the results of the quarter I need to reference the Safe Harbor statement.
Some of the comments made today will be forward-looking and are made under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the statements we will be making.
Among the factors that may affect the operating results of the company are fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw materials and market conditions for finished products.
Please refer to the cautionary statements and risk factors on Pages 30 to 36 in the company's 10-Q for the quarter ended April 29 2012 which was filed with the SEC on June 8 2012 for more details.
It can be accessed on our website.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Kevin.
Good morning everyone.
We are pleased to report record earnings and sales for the third quarter.
Earnings for the quarter were $0.41 per share up 14% from earnings of $0.36 a share a year ago.
All 5 segments registered gains in segment profit.
Total dollar sales topped $2 billion an increase of 5% over a year ago on solid volume growth of 4%.
I will now take you through each segment.
Our Grocery Products team delivered an operating profit increase of 32% and a dollar sales increase of 21% for the third quarter.
You may recall that we began including Don Miguel sales in our Grocery Product segment results this past quarter.
Sales for Grocery Products grew 3% excluding Don Miguel in the quarter.
Among the contributors to sales growth in this segment were our SPAM family of products Hormel Compleats microwave meals and our MegaMex portfolio.
For the SPAM family of products our advertising campaign featuring Sir Can-A-Lot and the publicity around the 75th anniversary has contributed to the nice sales increase.
We were pleased to see growth by our Hormel Compleats microwave meals in Q3.
We are in the process of introducing additional new Compleats meals that feature cheesy pasta.
We also introduced some other new microwavable items in the quarter including SPAM meals and Hormel sandwich makers.
These new items have performed well in limited markets so far.
Sales of our Mexican food products continue to grow led by Wholly Guacamole Dip and by salsas and tortillas under both the Herdez and CHI-CHI'S brands.
Segment operating profit for our Refrigerated Foods group increased by 7% with higher sales of our value-added products were able to offset lower pork operating margins.
Sales were flat overall but value-added sales continued to grow.
On the retail side we enjoyed strong sales of Hormel Natural Choice Deli Meats Hormel party trays Hormel bacon and Hormel Pepperoni.
Foodservice sales were also higher led by sales of branded products such as Hormel Natural Choice Deli Meats Hormel premium hams and premium bacon.
The Jennie-O Turkey Store segment had another solid quarter with segment operating profit up 12% and sales up 7%.
Continued growth in sales of value-added products and an improved product mix more than offset higher grain prices and lower commodity meat prices during Q3.
Sales of our Jennie-O Turkey Store retail tray pack fresh turkey and our turkey burgers are still on the rise.
We will be building up on last year's highly successful Make The Switch advertising campaign with a new TV commercial this fall this time featuring turkey bacon and sausage.
Stronger sales of whole birds also aided results this quarter for Jennie-O.
Our Specialty Foods segment had a very good quarter achieving 18% growth in operating profit on a net sales increase of 11%.
Segment profit gains were driven by higher sales of nutritional products private label canned meats and ingredients.
Our All Other international segment delivered another strong quarter with segment operating profit up 55% while sales increased 2%.
Higher exports of our SPAM family of products and fresh pork were the primary drivers for this segment.
Moving into the fourth quarter we do anticipate seasonally lower hog costs as we get into fall.
Pork operating margins have thankfully returned to positive territory lately and we expect these margins to remain positive though lower than a year ago during the fourth quarter.
Jennie-O Turkey Store's Q4 margins will be impacted as we cycle in higher grain costs.
Our team at Jennie-O will continue to push for value-added sales growth and efficiency improvements in order to mitigate the impact of grain inflation.
We also expect strong contributions to our earnings growth from our Grocery Products and International teams based on their solid momentum from the third quarter.
Taking all of these significant factors into account we are maintaining our fiscal 2012 guidance range of $1.79 to $1.89 per share.
The strength of our balanced business model and the vibrancy of our branded value-added portfolio should support continued sales and earnings growth as we close out fiscal 2012.
At this time I will turn the call over to Jody Feragen to discuss the financial information relating to the third quarter.
Thank you Jeff and good morning everyone.
For the third quarter of 2012 net earnings totaled $111.2 million or $0.41 per share compared to $98.5 million or $0.36 per share a year ago.
Net earnings for the 9 months of fiscal 2012 totaled $367.4 million or $1.37 per share compared to net earnings of $356.9 million or $1.31 per share a year ago.
Dollar sales for the third quarter totaled $2 billion compared to $1.9 billion last year a 5% increase.
For the 9 months of fiscal 2012 dollar sales were up 5% to $6.1 billion.
Volume for the third quarter was 1.2 billion pounds a 4% increase over fiscal 2011.
Year-to-date volume was 3.6 billion pounds even with last year.
Selling general and administrative expenses in the third quarter were 7.2% of sales compared to 8.2% last year.
Year-to-date selling general and administrative expenses were 7.4% compared to 8% last year.
We expect selling general and administrative expenses to be approximately 7.5% of sales for the full year.
Interest and investment income was $844 000 for the third quarter compared to $139 000 last year.
Year-to-date interest and investment income was $4.8 million compared to $2.6 million a year ago.
Interest expense for the quarter was $3.2 million compared to $5.6 million last year due to lower debt levels and lower interest rate.
Year-to-date interest expense was $9.7 million compared to $19.4 million last year.
We expect interest expense to be approximately $12 million to $14 million for fiscal 2012.
Our effective tax rate in the third quarter was 33.7% versus 29.3% in fiscal 2011.
Last year's tax rate for the third quarter was favorably impacted by the resolution of tax matters with various federal and state tax jurisdictions.
Year-to-date our effective tax rate was 33.5% compared to 33% last year.
For fiscal 2012 we expect the effective tax rate to be between 33.5% and 34.5%.
The basic weighted average number of shares outstanding for the third quarter was 263 million.
The diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding for the third quarter was 269 million shares.
We repurchased 302 000 shares of common stock during the third quarter spending $8.6 million.
We have 1.6 million shares remaining to be purchased from the current authorization in place.
Depreciation and amortization for the quarter was $28.9 million down from $30.6 million last year.
For the 9 months depreciation and amortization was $88.6 million compared to $92.9 million last year.
We expect depreciation and amortization to be approximately $115 million for fiscal 2012.
Total long-term debt at the end of the quarter was $250 million unchanged from last year.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $36 million compared to $20 million last year.
For the 9 months capital expenditures totaled $94 million compared to $63 million last year.
For fiscal 2012 we expect capital expenditures to be $120 million to $130 million.
At this time I will turn the call over to the operator for the question-and-answer portion of the call.
Ian? [Operator Instructions] First question is from the line of Farha Aslam.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to focus my questions really on Jennie-O.
But the segment continues to perform very very well particularly I mean your price mix this quarter was very strong despite the fact that commodity turkey prices have been quite weak.
Do you anticipate turkey for that division to continue to have positive price mix going forward given the weakness that you've seen in commodity turkey? Well at this stage I mean we're just going to talk through the end of this fiscal year.
Clearly we were very pleased with Jennie-O's quarter in the third quarter.
Not the huge gains year-over-year that we saw in Q1 and Q2 but to be expected given both the pressures on the grain side and the pressures on the commodity meat side.
They do have excellent momentum in terms of their value-added products and we expect Q4 to be more similar to Q3 in terms of their operating results.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I know you don't want to talk specifically about next year but we have to address the current grain situation.
Kind of how do you think that is going to affect that division going forward? Could you share with us a little bit about your grain positions and do you anticipate feeding wheat to your turkeys and is that possible? I can't get into the latter question.
In terms of what the outlook is clearly that will be part of the planning process for next year.
I mean it is important to know in terms of the aggregate and looking at grain cost for the Jennie-O organization that you have -- there's an effective hedge positions.
There's an effect in terms of the time to market for the turkeys which for the Tom turkeys is 22 weeks so there will be some lag effect in terms of the price increases that you've been seeing in the -- cost increases you've been seeing in the marketplace.
But no clearly that will be one of the major goals of that unit will be to do the best they can to balance off these significant cost increases on the grain side with the momentum they've been showing in value-added products and with the efficiency gains they've been able to generate in their business.
Research Division</strong> And then my final question would be regarding your cash position.
It -- I mean you have net cash on the balance sheet.
Do you think you're going to focus on M&amp;A? Are you focusing on working capital? Would you increase your dividend? Can you just share with us your priorities of cash? Farha this is Jody.
I certainly will.
Obviously first is to invest in our business and we've done a lot more of that through internal investment with our CapEx spending this year.
A portion of that was related to some general replacement but we've also invested in some capacity expansions as well as technologies that are driving new product introductions.
We continue to focus on finding strategic M&amp;A deals that would fit with us from both a strategic standpoint as well as being accretive and those would be both domestic and international.
And then certainly we have our continued obligations to our shareholders with our dividends as well as share repurchase.
So all those factor into our cash position.
We have invested in some working capital and I would expect that to decrease as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you're making no changes in your cash allocation given the rise in grain prices? We'll probably -- just the nature of Jennie-O is they’re holding higher grain prices that will be reflective of their inventories.
We like to focus on making sure we have the appropriate quantity of inventories.
Our next question is from the line of Diane Geissler.
Research Division</strong> I guess inquiring minds want to know why you kept the range so wide for the full year at $1.79 $1.89.
Your commentary on the fourth quarter suggests you expect the fourth quarter to be up year-on-year but the bottom end of the range which is something around $0.42 versus last year's $0.43.
So I guess I'm a little conflicted about what you're trying to say about the fourth quarter and why there's still such a wide range a $0.10 range given that you only have one quarter left.
True.
I guess our philosophy on that Diane was we really have been trying to operate on an annualized basis.
We moved away from giving quarterly guidance about 3 or 4 years ago.
And as reflected in both the release and in my comments at the beginning of the call we do think we're tracking well towards that annual operating plan.
Our team is aligned against that plan.
Our incentive programs are based on the achievement of the results within that annual plan.
And so at this point we just felt that that was the number that was important to focus on both for external audiences and the internal audiences to what we're trying to deliver.
And there certainly are opportunities depending on what happens during the quarter to be on the lower or upper end of that range but we felt it’s still a comfortable area to have out there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate the clarification there.
And then on the Grocery Products you're sort of one of the few kind of packaged food companies that's actually showing some volume lift.
So congratulations on that x the Don Miguel.
Can you just talk about -- it sounds like Compleats was doing well I mean that's kind of a higher-end product.
SPAM seems like more of a value-oriented product.
Can you talk about what you're seeing with the consumer base what retailers are saying about the state of the consumer? Sure.
I mean for our items we're really -- we were very pleased with the breadth of the success of the Grocery Products results during Q3.
SPAM would probably traditionally be looked at as more of a value item with some of the excitement we've been able to build around that brand both in-store and with our advertising and public relations effort.
We're very pleased with the sales growth there.
We've been working hard to restore growth to Compleats and so that was -- it was very encouraging to see the upward trend in that market.
And then very good results from the Mexican portfolio.
I mean the portfolio -- so forgetting Don Miguel for the moment even the core items that had been part of MegaMex prior to that were up for the quarter and so that's exhibiting good center of the store performance.
And then Don Miguel and Wholly Guacamole are actually sold in different sections of the store albeit still part of the Mexican portfolio and Wholly Guacamole in particular had a very strong quarter.
So it's -- so we're -- we have a lot of items that are connecting well consumers overall.
I would agree that in talking with retailers that's not the universal picture that there are certain categories that they're still experiencing some difficulty in terms of volume comparisons.
But we focus on the categories we're in and trying to partner with them to figure out ways to keep connecting more with consumers with those.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So despite continued weakness with consumers you don't see any reason to sort of back off your long-term sales growth target of 5%? Certainly for -- I mean again kind of going into the next quarter we think the momentum Grocery Products has should continue into Q4 and then we'll kind of give whatever clarification we see out there as we provide 2013 guidance at the November call.
Our next question is from the line of Akshay Jagdale.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up on turkey.
I know you don't want to talk too much specifically about '13 but can you just help us frame fiscal '13 in the context of perhaps fiscal '08 when I guess there’s some parallels being drawn there because of the increase in grain costs.
But I would just like to get your perspective generally for the turkey industry and your business going into '13 relative to let's say '08.
I guess the best I can give you on that Akshay is we do believe there are significant changes in our own operating philosophy and performance between 2008 and what we expect to have in 2013.
We've been able to grow the brand significantly through the advertising campaign.
One of the hallmark franchises that is supported by that campaign and has leading position in the marketplace would be our Fresh Product line.
Because of the strength of that we've added on a new line in our Pelican Rapids facility that's one of the capital investments that Jody was referencing in her earlier comments.
And so clearly we wouldn't have added that line if we didn't think we have significant new business to be able to support that line.
On top of that the team has just done a very good job all across-the-board in terms of driving efficiency gains whether it's at the farm level bringing the product into the plant or in through the supply chain.
So we'll provide you with what we see is our best picture for that segment and for the total business when we do get to the November call but I do expect that that will be a -- it's still going to be a significant jump up from 2008 levels.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one on the consumer in general.
I thought it was interesting that you're Compleats business did well this quarter.
I don't remember it being on the positive side as much as it was this quarter for a while.
Is there -- I mean do you and your business and your product segments see a bifurcation in sort of the consumer where your SPAM business is doing well but now it looks like Compleats is starting to do well again.
I mean what are you really seeing from a consumer standpoint in terms of demand? Oh I mean it's been interesting really ever since the recession began to see the consumer dynamic against the franchise.
It doesn't -- at least for our portfolio it doesn't split neatly into value consumers versus more affluent consumers because we've seen great strength of items that you might consider value items such as SPAM or initially Hormel chili.
But we also have had excellent results from our party trays and Natural Choice items which are probably aimed at a little bit more premium consumer.
Compleats is kind of in the middle in that regard.
It's not -- I don't know if it's regarded as an ultra value item nor as a premium item.
What we have found is the packaged meal kind of sub-segment has been a little bit more of a struggle since the recession began.
We've seen that both in Hormel Compleats and in our Hormel Refrigerated Entrees.
So the effort then becomes okay how do you gain more households and how do you connect more with those items? And so it's a -- for Compleats it's been a multifaceted approach of new advertising new package designs kind of segmenting the line into the red blue and green varieties new flavor varieties that some that are already in the market and the others that we're coming out with such as our new cheesy pasta items.
So it's -- the mission is just to keep growing that franchise and we really don't see any reason why that can't happen.
I mean it still has very low household penetration.
It's a convenience item in a convenience world.
With our balanced model of being able to deliver both protein and packaged food we're the ones delivering the simple one-step product that has the protein component and other components in it.
And so we're still very high on the line in the long run and we're very pleased with the Q3 results.
Your next question is from Jonathan Feeney.
Research Division</strong> This is Mark Williams Michael on for Jon.
I wanted to ask about your -- I was surprised by the management of profit expansion in Grocery.
Can you just talk about the drivers there and what drove that? We've -- the Grocery portfolio if you look at it over the last 3 4 years has had a swing a couple of hundred basis points over a longer haul off and on; based somewhat on inputs and somewhat on mix.
They've had some fairly significant stresses on the input side in prior quarters and those improved during the most recent quarter.
And then over time we have seen the solid growth of some of the key items that's been helping a lot as well.
SPAM is a great item for us as well as the Mexican portfolio.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And would you -- could you please provide just your outlook on the turkey supply and pricing dynamics and what you see going forward? Okay.
Well it's probably somewhat in flux.
When we last talked grain was at a quite different level than when we're talking 3 months later.
And so I would imagine the other participants within the industry are probably looking at that and making decisions as to what they think they're appropriate production levels are.
They're clearly -- there have been a couple of expansions in the industry that are probably going to go forward.
I mean they were already in the midst of building plants and adding onto farms.
But beyond that I would assume every business has to kind of assess okay what's your profitability picture with this kind of a grain environment.
At Jennie-O Turkey Store we’ve tried to keep supplies tight.
It really fits well with our emphasis on the value-added branded items.
And in terms of that outlook I mean we would anticipate -- we'll continue to maintain that kind of tightness.
We need enough meat to support the growth of the value-added items but we're not looking to have a lot of surplus meat to sell on the commodity market.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And my last question pertains to the pork cutout margin.
As you noted that has expanded some in recent weeks.
Do you see that as a temporary phenomenon driven by maybe some farmer that can afford the cost of feed that are sending their hogs to slaughter or do you see that as a more durable driver? This is Jody.
I'll try to handle that one.
Yes thankfully they have turned to be positive from quite negative averages over the previous quarters.
Hog supply seasonally is stronger in the fall just kind of the nature of that industry.
So we would expect that to continue into the fourth quarter.
And we would expect the spread between the hog cost and the USDA cutout to be positive probably not as positive as it was in the fourth quarter of 2011.
And our next question is from the line of Tim Ramey.
Research Division</strong> Jody the -- I don't know did you say how -- what your hedge position looks like now relative to either corn or hogs? I think -- we hedged our grain input for Jennie-O and as we indicated on the call last quarter where our range is typically the 25% to 75%.
And for fiscal 2012 we're planning in the middle if you will.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Are you experiencing -- I mean certainly the Minnesota farmers are experiencing a better crop than on average.
How is that impacting you? Is that helping basis or how do you think about that? I -- we have seen some tightening of the basis so I don't know that it's been as big a benefit as maybe in prior years.
But you're right the crops up here do appear better than the ones that have been noted in the southern part of the states.
They're also not in yet and so often basis can really swing more on true delivery and what kind of spread there is.
The other wild card to basis this year is going to be traffic on the Mississippi River and if there's some constriction there in terms of ability to ship that could make a difference as well.
And our next question is from the line of Christine McCracken.
I know you don't want to talk about the forward outlook but I'm just wondering with the increases that we're seeing in grains and then presumably in the proteins I'm wondering if you're having conversations with your customers relative to pricing.
How far in advance do you have those discussions especially as you look at annual contracting and expectations for '13? Well to the extent we engage in annual contracting which would be limited more to certain areas of the Foodservice business then yes we're clearly reflecting our best expectation of what markets are going to be both for the protein and for the input.
That's not a huge percentage of our overall business though.
In terms of retail pricing absent the market-based items whole turkeys and bacon and fresh pork we really don't have any current announcements to make in terms of pricing.
But clearly that will be one of the team's overall assessments that we have to make as we complete our planning process here is what do we see as the likely cost input level for different commodities and for different products and what are we going to do to either mitigate those or in terms of pricing reflect those in the area of pricing.
Are you getting the sense that -- how quickly could you adjust? Is it kind of 30 60 days kind of pricing adjustment or is it longer? I'm just wondering when we look back at when we’ve seen this kind of cost sensation in the past it's always been about the past year of pricing resistance to pricing and how quickly we can get it through.
I'm just wondering if you get in front of it this time.
Yes.
I mean on a -- from a retail standpoint 60 days is probably not a bad rule of thumb in terms of the kind of notice and making sure you honor your features and so forth.
But you have to have -- again absent those market items that move on a more aggressive basis.
There's a lot of things to weigh in terms of timing.
One example you probably -- that's been talked about in the marketplace has been a little level -- some level of liquidation on the beef side.
So I mean in the short run the cost inputs on beef may not be up at all.
And so that we wouldn't obviously be then walking in and looking for price increases related to those items until it was needed to be reflecting the cost.
But that's all part of what we'll need to weigh when we establish our plan.
All right.
And just one more technical question.
Receivables were up in the quarter.
Anything specific behind that Jody or...
No I wouldn't say there was anything specific behind that.
Our next question is from the line of Ken Zaslow.
So just going over Refrigerated Foods a little bit your profitability was a little bit higher than we expected and despite the whole wheat fresh pork margins.
But it sounds like it was driven by the value-added side of it.
So if the improvement in fresh pork is going to be a little bit more sustainable and assuming that your value-added portfolio is not going to decrease it's going to continue going the same -- in the right direction why wouldn't your refrigerated profitability in the fourth quarter at least the margin structure continue on this path given that you have this similar tailwind on the improvement in the fresh pork and assuming that's -- the value-added stays the same? There's some logic to that.
The comp of the pork cutout from last year was really quite favorable in Q4 and although it's improved this -- from negative it's still a lot lower than what last year was.
But I would agree on the momentum side in terms of the value-added products.
We were very pleased with a wide array of the retail items being up for the quarter and having really good years.
So overall that is the game plan for Refrigerated Foods is to drive growth through their Foodservice and Meat Product segments and to then respond as well as they can to what happens in the cutout arena.
But even in the third quarter the profitability was higher year-over-year but the fresh pork was obviously much lower year-over-year.
That's correct.
But is there something more going -- I mean it seems like there's something maybe going on a little bit more structurally is that a fair point that maybe we shouldn't be looking to fresh pork margins as much anymore? It just seems like it was the fresh pork margin for the quarter for -- to say this bluntly as possible is dismal at best.
So I'm just trying to figure out you guys did not have that impact on your earnings and just trying to figure out why is it more sustainable than we should kind of think of it more like what has happened on the turkey side since '08 as well.
Well I mean this hasn't been from our doing but what does seem to have changed structurally is that we're even having to talk about cutout margins.
Because I mean it used to be they were just kind of a fairly benign you didn't expect to make much money in that part of the business but that was part of the assets you had to invest in order to control your own supply.
They've been very volatile over the -- not just this year over the last several years.
So on any given quarter I may have to ask Kevin to do a little follow-up with you on that.
But a lot of it can be well what are the comps -- the first 2 quarters of the comps were just breathtaking.
I mean they were extremely positive the year before and then swung to extremely negative this year.
We've had good value-added results all year long.
I think those were shrouded by that huge swing in the first half and then they were able to kind of emerge and at least deliver some growth in Q3.
And we're hoping to see somewhere along those same lines in Q4.
And I guess to follow up to Jeff's comment fourth quarter of 2011 I think the pork P&amp;L margin was close to $8 and we're not certainly seeing those today.
So we've got more difficult comps than last year.
You will have the same comp comparison though in third quarter now relative comp comparison.
I'll take it offline.
It just seems like it was a much better result and it seems like there's something underlying it.
I'll take it off-line no problem.
And our next question is from the line of Ann Gurkin.
LLC Research Division</strong> I thought you could help me understand something.
I guess what is the potential or likelihood that you could get in your term tailwind from lower pork input prices? I mean I guess have you locked those prices or is there opportunity to take advantage if there are a number of hogs brought to market and if we see these prices decline near term what is the possibility of that positively helping you all? We haven't historically taken a lot of positions on the pork side in contrast to what Jody explained on the cost side for grain inputs for Jennie-O.
It certainly -- that's one of a number of things the team can assess over time as to whether they think we ought to treat that differently given certain market dynamics.
But it's -- we don't have anything to announce in that regard right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> But could you potentially have a tailwind here in the near term? Input costs are lower traditionally that helps some of our value-added franchises.
But there's a lot of moving parts that go along with it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then in terms of Foodservice any change to how you approach that business over the next 12 months? No.
I mean we really like our strategy in regard to Foodservice.
With the core Hormel Foodservice unit it's all about their branded items and finding solutions for operators.
They continue to do a great job of connecting with both the commercial and noncommercial segments with those items.
And then our -- we also have strong Foodservice components within both Specialty Jennie-O and international.
And those were experiencing reasonable results as well.
And our next question is from the line of Mark Warner.
This is a bit of an odd question but with the lack of demand perhaps for Europe for pork products or beef products you all have an alternate source for the pork especially from maybe South America or somewhere else where it would be cost efficient for you all to use that in your processing versus growing your own swine turkey et cetera? Really -- I mean I can't really talk to what the industry would think of that.
I can just tell you though that that's not our model both for Jennie-O and for the Hormel operation.
They're domestic-based operations that we have either ownership positions or long-term contracts in place to provide our plants with the domestic source and that's how we intend to continue to run the business.
Mark this is Kevin Jones.
Could I bother you to tell us who you're with? I'm just an individual investor but I just know enough about farming even though I'm not a farmer to know that if this situation continues here -- I'm actually in the horse business and I know the cost of feed price is going up.
So my concern as a stockholder is long term if you all are looking to maybe expand that model and try to get proteins from elsewhere because I've seen what's happened to feed prices feeding horses.
Our next question is from the line of Alan Brochstein.
I just -- Jody it seems like every quarter you get the same question and give the same answer on capital.
The only difference is it just -- your cash balance is getting bigger and bigger.
And I was wondering on that front you talk about the potential for acquisitions? Are there -- have you had any serious discussions is that something that we can expect in the next 3 to 6 months? Alan can I just interject? Could you please help me know where -- I missed your last name.
I'm sorry it's Alan Brochstein Kevin.
I've visited you 2 years ago.
I'm with AB Analytical.
Sorry about that.
Did you hear the question Jody? Oh yes I did.
And I really can't comment about any acquisition at this point in time.
So given that that remains a long-term strategy but it seems like for the last few years your acquisitions really haven't used that much capital what is your thought about a one-time dividend to shareholders given how high your cash balances have gotten? I wouldn't disagree with your comment about not using a lot of capital.
But we have had some very beneficial acquisitions over the past 2 years.
Just tonight in fact we're going to be celebrating the retirement of Bill Burke.
We bought the Burke operation 5 years ago.
That's been an outstanding addition to our Refrigerated Foods portfolio.
We've created our MegaMex venture and made 2 other acquisitions there the Don Miguel and Wholly Guacamole lines.
We added Country Crock to our portfolio of Refrigerated items and those have all been really great additions.
And we -- we're always active in looking in multiple areas for potential things that could fit the growth model of Hormel Foods.
But acquisitions at least from our experience by their nature they don't just kind of come when you want them.
They can tend to come in spurts you put a lot of feelers out there and up to whether there's a meeting of the minds as to timing and price and a lot of things.
So we intend to continue to pursue various ways to grow our business.
The acquisitions is one of them new product innovation is another and we continue to have success there.
We do have to spend money to add onto our plants and buy new technology to support growth as well as I mentioned at our Jennie-O facility.
So I think we've mentioned on past calls I mean if at some point we're sitting and our cash position is mounting to $1 billion and we're -- and it's just not going anywhere then maybe we'll have to make a different assessment as to how we've handled our cash management practices.
But we're not ready to push that button at this time.
All right well maybe I can ask one more final question and maybe it's too technical but you guys have a modifier on your short-term bonuses that -- by the way I think you guys have an exceptional compensation plan as an aside.
But this modifier basically penalizes you or would -- it takes into account your -- the capital that you use.
As I read it I don't think that there's any penalty for holding cash.
Is that an accurate assessment or should I follow up with that off-line? That's correct.
We all -- we have modifiers in place both for segments and for the total company.
We manage total cash on a total company level so the modifier at the segments clearly would not have that be a factor.
And at the total company level our assessment has been that there just -- there's a very tight number of people that really have any decision-making authority over cash and that it just really wouldn't be an appropriate element to have in there for the total company to be weighed off of.
[Operator Instructions] We do have a follow-up from Diane Geissler.
Research Division</strong> Just -- pricing has had a pretty good strategy with being sort of short to the market in the chicken business and that's been -- they've done some pretty good margins on the value-added side.
Just wondering what is your outlook for turkey? I mean you talked about you didn't want to have a lot of commodity meat exposure but is that a strategy that you think you could pursue let other people raise it at $8 a bushel on corn and then you buy it on the commodity market and value-add? Well it's not something we're looking at on a broadscale basis because you make long-term commitments and put assets in place.
But in any given year I mean yes there’s a certain level of fluctuation that within your system you can tolerate.
And I think that is indeed -- that would be part of the equation that the Jennie-O team would be setting next year is if you have any incremental questions as to how many eggs or poults to put in the system if you can do better buying from someone else at certain times of the year that's something they definitely should entertain.
Thank you.
And we have no further questions at this time.
I'll turn it back to Kevin Jones for any closing remarks.
Thank you for all of your questions and your interest in our company.
Please feel free to follow up with me with any follow-up questions that might occur to you.
This is Kevin Jones again.
And otherwise everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
And welcome to the Hormel Foods Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today Tuesday November 20 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Kevin Jones Director of Investor Relations.
Go ahead sir.
Thank you Jill.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Hormel Foods Conference Call for the Fourth Quarter of our Fiscal 2012.
We released our results this morning before the market opened around 6:30 a.m.
Eastern Time.
If you did not receive a copy of the release you can find it on our website at www.hormelfoods.com under the Investors section.
On our call today is Jeff Ettinger Chairman of the Board President and Chief Executive Officer; and Jody Feragen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jeff will provide a review of the operating results for the quarter and the year and our guidance for fiscal 2013; then Jody will provide detailed financial results for the quarter and the year.
The line will be open for questions following Jody's remarks.
[Operator Instructions] An audio replay of this call will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m.
Central Time today November 20 2012.
The dial-in number is (800) 406-7325 and the access code is 4482517.
It will also be posted to our website and archived for 1 year.
Before we get started with the results of the quarter I need to reference the Safe Harbor statement.
Some of the comments made today will be forward-looking and are made under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the statements we will be making.
Among the factors that may affect the operating results of the company are fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw materials and market conditions for finished products.
Please refer to Pages 32 through 38 in the company's 10-Q for the quarter ended July 29 2012 filed September 7 2012 for more details.
It can be accessed on our website.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thanks Kevin and good morning everyone.
We are pleased to report solid results for the fourth quarter.
Earnings per share were $0.49 up 14% from a year ago on sales of $2.2 billion a 3% increase.
As another example of our balanced business model in action we generated segment profit and sales increases in 4 out of 5 segments.
For the full year the company earned $1.86 per share representing a 7% increase.
We provided earnings guidance a year ago on this call wherein we said we would earn between $1.79 and $1.89 per share for the year and I am pleased to report we finished in the upper half of that range.
We also exceeded $8 billion in sales for the first time in company history ultimately reaching $8.2 billion for the full year up 4%.
I am also glad to announce that our team was successful in achieving the goal of $2 billion in sales of new products by 2012.
All 5 of our segments made significant contributions to reaching this goal.
I will now take you through each segment.
Our Grocery Products group contributed significantly to our solid Q4 results with segment profit up 22% and sales up 21%.
You may recall that we began including sales of Don Miguel products in our Grocery Products results beginning in the third quarter of this year.
Sales for Grocery Products in the quarter grew 3% excluding Don Miguel products.
For the year segment operating profit was up 12% and sales were up 10%.
Excluding the Don Miguel sales sales were up 1% for the year.
Contributing to our sales growth in the quarter were our MegaMex Foods joint venture our SPAM family of products Hormel chili and Hormel bacon toppings.
Strong sales of our SPAM family of products were propelled by our advertising campaign featuring Sir Can-A-Lot and the publicity around the 75th anniversary of this product.
In our MegaMex Foods business sales gains were led by Herdez sauces and foods Wholly Guacamole refrigerated dips and Don Miguel frozen and refrigerated products.
Sales of our Hormel Compleats microwave meals were somewhat soft in the quarter reflecting a shift in promotional timing.
We remain confident that sales will resume growing in 2013 as we continue to rollout new products and support them with marketing efforts.
Our Refrigerated Foods segment profit declined 12% with sales down 3%.
For the full year operating profit in this segment was down 22% and sales increased 1%.
Sales of our value-added products were not able to fully offset lower pork operating margins in the quarter.
Spiking grain prices adversely impacted our costs for hogs sourced internally and those contracted under grain-based grow-out arrangements.
Sales declined on flat volume due to lower commodity meat prices in the quarter.
Nonetheless our Meat Products group had some solid sales performers in their product portfolio led by Hormel pepperoni and party trays and Hormel Cure 81 premium hams.
We were also pleased to see sales growth of our Hormel refrigerated entrées in the quarter.
Our Foodservice group enjoyed nice contributions from its value-added products led by sales of Hormel Natural Choice deli meats Hormel Always Tender prepared pork and premium bacon.
Our Jennie-O Turkey Store segment completed a very strong year with a solid quarter.
Both segment profit and sales were up 5% during the quarter.
For the full year segment profit was up 16% and sales increased 6%.
Results of Jennie-O in Q4 were driven by continued growth in value-added sales and an improved product mix.
These more than made up for higher feed costs and lower commodity meat prices during the quarter.
Sales increased for Jennie-O in both retail and Foodservice value-added products led by Jennie-O Turkey Store retail tray pack turkey bacon and turkey burgers.
Our third Make The Switch advertising campaign focused on our new turkey bacon and breakfast sausage.
Our Specialty Foods segment had another solid quarter with a segment profit increase of 8% and a sales increase of 7%.
Higher sales of canned meats sauces and broths were the primary drivers of the positive results during the quarter.
Full year results for Specialty Foods showed operating profit up 8% on 11% higher sales with improved year-over-year results for 3 consecutive quarters.
Our International or All Other segment capped off an excellent year by posting another good quarter with segment profit up 24% and sales up 1%.
Strong export sales to Canada and lower costs for our SPAM family of products drove the positive results.
Our China operations also continued to improve.
For the full year operating profit was up 38% and sales were up 7% for our international team.
Moving into fiscal 2013 we intend to again grow both sales and earnings.
We expect our Refrigerated Foods Grocery Products Specialty Foods and International segments to contribute to the earnings growth.
We expect our Jennie-O Turkey Store segment to register an earnings decline due to higher grain costs and tougher comparisons.
Headwinds to our outlook for 2013 include higher grain costs and volatile protein costs and processing margins.
We plan on reducing our harvest levels in both our Jennie-O Turkey Store and Refrigerated Food segments by 1% to 2% in order to mitigate our exposure to these higher commodity costs.
We will also continue to take strategic and modest price increases where we need them.
On the positive side we continue to enjoy solid top line momentum with a significant number of our important value-added franchises.
For example the continued strong sales growth of our Jennie-O Turkey Store fresh tray pack turkey burgers and now turkey bacon should continue in 2013 fueled by our Make The Switch ad campaign and the trend toward eating more nutritious products.
Our Mexican food portfolio has begun to leverage its scale and our full range of product offerings in this fast-growing category.
Our SPAM family of products has great momentum in both the U.S.
and abroad.
We look for continued strong contributions from Hormel pepperoni and Hormel party trays as snacking occasions continue to be a big part of the consumer eating landscape.
Hormel Compleats microwave meals should benefit from new products and refreshed advertising.
These are just a few of the growth platforms that we believe will contribute to our success in 2013.
We believe our balanced model will continue to smooth out volatility in our earnings stream as evidenced by our track record of increased earnings in 27 of the last 30 years.
We feel our innovation and strong brands in niche categories put us in a position to deliver strong results for years to come.
After taking into account all of these significant factors we have established our fiscal 2013 earnings guidance range at $1.90 to $2 per share.
On previous calls I said I would provide some added color with respect to operating margins in our Jennie-O Turkey Store and Grocery Products segments.
For Jennie-O we believe that a range of 11% to 15% can now be considered a normal range.
For Grocery Products given that we are including an increased level of sales by our MegaMex joint venture and recognizing only half of the profits we believe that a range of 14% to 16% is now reasonable.
At this time I will turn the call over to Jody Feragen to discuss the financial information relating to the fourth quarter and fiscal 2012.
Thank you Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
Net earnings for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 totaled $132.6 million or $0.49 per share compared to $117.3 million or $0.43 a share a year ago.
Net earnings for the full year totaled $500.1 million or $1.86 per share compared to net earnings of $474.2 million or $1.74 per share a year ago.
Dollar sales for the fourth quarter totaled $2.2 billion compared to $2.1 billion last year a 3% increase.
For the full year dollar sales were $8.2 billion a 4% increase from last year.
Volume for the fourth quarter was 1.3 billion pounds up 2% from fiscal 2011.
Year-to-date volume was 4.8 billion pounds flat to last year.
As Jeff mentioned a portion of our hog costs were directly impacted by rapidly escalating grain costs during the quarter.
These include hogs sourced from our Arizona Colorado and Wyoming sow operations and represent less than 20% of our total hog harvest.
Selling general and administrative expenses in the fourth quarter were 7.4% of sales even with last year.
Year-to-date selling general and administrative expenses were 7.4% of sales compared to 7.8% last year.
We expect selling general and administrative expenses to be between 7% and 7.5% of sales for next year.
Interest and investment income was $1.7 million for the fourth quarter compared to a loss of $3.3 million last year.
Year-to-date interest and investment income was $6.5 million compared to a loss of $786 000 a year ago.
Interest expense for the quarter was $3.2 million compared to $3.3 million last year.
Year-to-date interest expense was $12.9 million down from $22.9 million last year due to lower debt levels and lower interest rates.
We expect interest expense to be approximately $12 million to $14 million for 2013.
Our effective tax rate in the fourth quarter was 33.1% versus 34.3% in fiscal 2011.
The year-to-date effective tax rate was 33.4% compared to 33.3% last year.
For fiscal 2013 we expect the effective tax rate to be between 33.5% and 34.5%.
Basic weighted average number of shares outstanding for the fourth quarter and full year were 262.9 million and 263.5 million shares respectively.
The diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding for the fourth quarter and full year were 268.1 million and 268.9 million shares respectively.
We repurchased 382 000 shares of common stock during the fourth quarter spending $10.7 million.
For the full year we spent $61.4 million purchasing 2.1 million shares.
We have 1.2 million shares remaining to be purchased from the current authorization in place.
We announced an $0.08 per share increase to the annual dividend making the new dividend $0.68.
This represents a 13% increase on top of an 18% increase last year and marks the 47th consecutive year in which we have increased our dividend rate.
Depreciation and amortization for the quarter was $30.9 million compared to $31.2 million last year.
For the full year depreciation and amortization was $119 million compared to $124 million last year.
We expect depreciation and amortization to be approximately $120 million in fiscal 2013.
Total debt at the end of the quarter was $250 million the same as last year.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $38 million compared to $41 million last year.
For the full year capital expenditures totaled $132 million compared with $97 million last year.
For fiscal 2013 we expect capital expenditures to be approximately $130 million to $140 million.
At this time I will turn the call over to the operator for the question-and-answer portion of the call.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Farha Aslam.
Research Division</strong> In Refrigerated Foods I was surprised by your commentary in hogs.
Could you just review kind of what percentage of hogs I think it's 11% you sourced internally? And just provide us some color on the grain contracts in terms of how you source your hogs.
I didn't understand that completely.
Well let me take a stab at that one Farha.
This is Jody.
We have less than 20% of our hogs that have some type of grain impact.
Most of those are sourced from the sow operations that we have in Colorado Wyoming and Arizona.
A large portion of them go to our Farmer John operation and the balance of them go to the Midwest to be finished.
And we take responsibility for the cost of finishing those hogs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a question on cash.
I mean you have net cash on the balance sheet.
Could you share with us kind of your priorities for that cash? How does the M&amp;A environment look? Are you looking more domestically internationally and how that relates to share repurchase? I'm becoming a broken record.
We certainly do look for opportunities to invest either organically and we've made some nice investments in capital projects within the company this year.
And we also look for acquisitions that meet our strategic initiatives.
And we continue to look at those.
There's also returning to our shareholders.
We increased our dividend this year on top of an increase over the last few years that have been pretty robust and then we look for share repurchase.
And our next question comes from the line of Ken Zaslow with the Bank of Montréal.
The guidance that you're laying out is a little bit less than your growth rate over your long term as well as last year.
I was wondering if you could talk to the point of is there something that might be slowing down? Obviously the grain costs I get that.
But is there something that's structural that may be slowing down your growth rate? Have you reached a certain size that maybe the growth rate historically may not be as applicable going forward? And can you just talk about that as a longer-term thought process? Sure Ken.
It's a very fair question.
No we really don't think we've slowed down.
We recognize that both the results we just completed in 2012 and the guidance range that we provided you for 2013 are below our long-term 10% bottom line growth algorithm.
If you look at the 3 years prior to that we were well into the teens.
So there is a little bit of an ebb and flow going on.
And to us really a lot of it really does relate back to the grain and the input costs.
We've -- our team's done a good job at mitigating a lot of those costs.
They've taken pricing where they've had to but it's been an environment where that's kind of been a nonstop effort for the last couple of years and will continue into 2013.
The underlying health of the franchises though to me is very robust.
And so I'm quite optimistic that our long-term goals remain very reachable even at the current size we are as a company having now reached $8 billion.
And then can you talk about certain brands that have actually gained more momentum than you expected through the quarter? Are there certain things that -- certain brands that on the top line you're looking forward to having a little bit more greater penetration going forward? Sure.
I don't know that there's -- they're necessarily surprises to what we expected but we have a lot of brands that are really doing quite well and enjoyed very solid quarters.
In many cases these were double-digit increases.
So on the Refrigerated Foods side you have Hormel pepperoni and party trays.
We have convenience bacon.
We have our relaunch of our Cure 81 hams.
We also enjoyed good sales growth of our entrées.
On the Grocery side SPAM had a great quarter bacon bits.
The Mexican portfolio is doing very well across the board a 5% increase not counting Don Miguel not counting the Wholly franchise and those are both growing as well.
Our Foodservice group is having good luck.
They've had their most successful new product launch in their history with one of their new premium bacon items and they continue to also grow within their ethnic items such as Café H and their Natural Choice-based items.
Jennie-O had solid double-digit growth in fresh tray pack and burgers and in bacon the latter supported by their ad campaign.
So we're really excited and that's not counting International either which has delivered 2 terrific years in a row.
We're growing the SPAM franchise and we're growing other pork-based items in various markets particularly in Asia.
So we're really -- from a top line standpoint we're very excited about what's going on in the company.
And our next question comes from the line of Tim Ramey with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Jeff you laid out the normalized EBIT margin for Jennie-O Turkey Store at 11% to 13%.
Did you -- if you said I missed it but did you say if you thought fiscal '13 would fall in the normalized range or be below the normalized range or...
Okay.
The range I attempted to say was 11% to 15%.
Research Division</strong> Oh 15%.
I'm sorry I misheard you.
Yes that's okay.
And then yes we do expect Jennie-O to fall within that range.
We do expect some reversion back more to the middle of the range.
They had achieved at the very high end during fiscal 2012 but that -- we do think they will perform within that new range.
Research Division</strong> And I guess one of the things I continue to struggle with is if that business did a 6.2% margin in fiscal '08 and there have not been structural changes at least in terms of acquisitions and so on in the intervening time what is it about the business -- and it was I guess sometime in the last 10 years there was a 3% margin in that business.
What is it about that business or the change in that business that makes you comfortable with saying that the long-term margin range is 11% to 15%? Sure 2 main areas.
So one on the cost side; the team has done a number of things to improve their overall sustainable cost position.
We recognize that when you invest in a vertical system I mean you're putting a lot of capital out there and that puts the burden on you to deliver that.
But they've done a wonderful job whether it's the hatchery levels the feed mills the farms the basic processing facilities.
That's one of the advantages of that acquisition that keeps playing out although we recognize the acquisition itself was a number of years ago but you continue to find benefits as time goes on.
And so we do feel we've lowered our systemic kind of cost per pound cost per employee.
We did an Investor Day presentation a year ago.
I know the head of operations showed the year-over-year kind of sale -- the employee count decline versus an increase in sales.
So that's again something that we do believe is sustainable.
And then on -- the key part has been on the value-added sales side.
We made major investments in advertising took a little bit of a gamble on that in a category where no one else was advertising.
And it's driven just big-time double-digit increases in key franchises that are margin accretive to the overall average of the company.
And we now have just really nice outposts for those key products in retailers throughout the grocery store.
And as I just mentioned again I mean the most recent quarter again they were all up double digits a lot of those key franchises.
So we think that momentum is sustainable as well.
And so those are the 2 major components.
And then we also talked about our production cut again this year; that's on top of our production cut the year before.
We've been very disciplined about making sure that we're only creating meat that's going to support our value-added items.
We're not looking to be a big player in the commodity meat side.
So those are the key elements to the Jennie-O story right now.
And our next question comes from the line of Robert Moskow with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess 2 questions.
Did you give any guidance for the dollar amount of grain cost inflation that you expect for fiscal '13 in turkey? And then secondly in Refrigerated Foods how will you work through what is likely to be a more inflationary environment especially in the back half on pork-related meat products? The futures market indicates that hog prices are going to go up.
Do you expect to have to raise prices on sliced meats and any other of the value-added items? Sure.
On the first question I mean it's hard to get very precise about it.
I can give you a ballpark of $50 million to $100 million.
It obviously depends some on hedge positions and other things going on.
But clearly when you look at what the core grains have gone up post drought I mean it's certainly a significant amount of money.
On your second question -- well I mean let me finish on the first question because it kind of ties in terms of pricing.
So the Jennie-O team since it's a vertically integrated operation already has those costs coming at them.
And so they've announced price increases on many of their portfolio items in Foodservice deli and retail already to the trade.
In terms of the Hormel side of the equation so more of the beef- and pork-based items we're seeing the same thing you are which is that there's certainly a possibility of cost increases in the second half of the year.
They're not here yet so we're not announcing current pricing actions on those items.
But we're going to watch them closely.
And so that may well be something that the team has to have as part of their reactions during the second half of the year.
But we have been taking pricing in past years here and by and large with our #1 #2 position brands in most of our categories we've been able to take them and sustain our share positions.
Research Division</strong> Jeff do you think your pricing decisions will depend more on the level of inflation or what your competition does if they decide not to raise maybe you'll hold off or is it just kind of like a combination per category and depends on the situation? Well in most of our categories where we have the leading share we often then view that comes with the mantle of having to push pricing to where it belongs in order to sustain the system in the long run to be able to support it with consumer advertising and the right promotions in store and so forth.
There are some isolated categories where we're more the #2 or even in a couple of cases the #3 player.
In those cases you may -- you probably do watch your competition a little bit more to see what they do in the category but that would be the minority of the different franchises that I've cited thus far this morning.
And our next question comes from the line of Diane Geissler with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about your comments that you made about the production levels.
I think it's fairly clear in jobs what you're talking about.
But I just -- I was unclear when you say 1% to 2% reduction in the pork business.
Is that total slaughter or is that just in the amount of hogs you expect to raise fiscal '13 versus fiscal '12? Diane that would have been in our total harvest numbers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then I guess did you have any commentary about what you'd expect your grain cost to be year-on-year? I mean Jeff threw out the $50 million to $100 million on the Jennie-O side of the business.
It's obviously a lot less on the Refrigerated side.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you just -- any commentary on what you're seeing from Foodservice? Here I'm really talking about just general industry trends.
I know you tend to do better than the industry or better than some of your competitors but can you just talk about what you're hearing from your customers about things like foot traffic et cetera? Sure.
The image I'm picturing is sputtering but that's more negative than I want to really get across because it's not like it's not moving forward.
But it's -- it does seem like every time the industry gets a couple of months where boy okay they seem to have turned the corner and it's solidly doing well either they get hit with a gas price increase or a food cost increase or some sort of change in consumer behavior.
And so it's not just a steady robust environment out there.
Overall though it's certainly better than the early part of the recession.
I think the industry would say overall that they're seeing positive trends.
And then we've had as you mentioned better results than that with our strategy of providing value-added items with an emphasis on the noncommercial segment as well as the commercial.
Research Division</strong> Do you think that that will improve in 2013? Here I'm just talking calendar because it just seems like we have so much -- we kind of came off the election thinking okay now that's done and we can kind of move on.
But it just seems like sentiment hasn't really picked up because of all of the issues with regard to the fiscal cliff and the Middle East and Europe and et cetera.
Well we're expecting a solid year out of our Foodservice group and they feel they have enough good initiatives going on with their key partners that they should see that kind of growth and be able to help drive that kind of growth for many of the operators.
In the aggregate I think it does seem like kind of modest optimism is the word of the day.
And our next question comes from the line of Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> First question just a follow-up on Diane's.
Have you seen -- you play both in the perimeter of the store and the center of the store.
Have you seen any shift from the consumer back into the center of the store? There was a large publicly traded company that said they saw that recently.
So I'm wondering if any movement that you're seeing back into the center of the store at all.
I would say our numbers definitely support that.
I mean we saw sluggishness with some of our center of the store grocery categories for Q1 and into Q2 a little bit.
But as we finished the year off a lot more of them are on the upswing right now.
So yes I would agree with that.
Research Division</strong> And why -- what do you think is driving that just to get a sense of how sustainable that could be? Well I mean we talked on the prior calls about why it was down before and people had different theories.
We think with some of the price increases that made it more difficult to hit some of the promoted prices that in the past had driven sort of the 10 for 10s or some of the hotter deals.
For our business especially when you look at franchises like chili and stew back in the winter months we do feel the more benign winter that occurred in 2012 versus quite a cold winter in 2011 played into those comps.
And so as we move through the year that became a nonfactor.
I don't know that could be helping the comps as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I can just on Jennie-O Turkey I mean truly impressive what you're guiding to in light of what's happened with the commodity meaning grains.
So my guess is a lot of it had to do with the mix improvement value-added and the type of margins that you're getting on that product.
So first can you just give us an update on where you are percentage of value-added versus other? And second as it relates to Refrigerated Foods I mean why isn't a move like that possible on Refrigerated Foods like why can't you margin up that business? I know it's probably a pretty complicated answer but I'm just trying to get your thoughts on that.
Okay.
First in terms of the Jennie-O and the percent the percent itself of what we count as value-added hasn't changed dramatically.
We've been on a dollar sales basis in that kind of mid to high 70% range for a time.
But we always talk about the value ladder and the different steps.
And we clearly have moved up a lot of the franchise into higher-level products.
So we're in fewer categories and are relying less on the categories where there's 7 or 8 different competitors and the products are relatively non-differentiated.
And instead we're pushing it into innovative items items where our brand really plays a major role.
And so that has been the bigger upgrade at Jennie-O.
In terms of Refrigerated I think the general theme of your question I would agree with.
I mean it clearly is a work in process in that regard.
Their operating margins are more on the 5% to 7% range today.
They have -- in the basic pork business although there's a lot of the commodity elements that pull that down somewhat some of the more market-based products such as fresh pork or raw bacon are also not huge margin contributors.
But we do believe that team over time as they continue to develop and move themselves up that value ladder in the Foodservice and meat products area ought to be able to migrate those margins upward.
And we think that's one of the stronger opportunities long term for the company.
And our next question is from the line of Ann Gurkin with Davenport.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you about innovation and are you changing where you focus that? Will it be across the portfolio and then also as innovation relates to the Compleats line of business? Sure.
Well really all of our teams kind of understand the company mission of seeking to grow 5% top line 10% bottom line.
And clearly innovation is one of the sources that they're all going to be utilizing to achieve that growth.
They've each had wonderful successes that led to our achievement of the $2 billion challenge.
We have platforms in various segments now that are $50 million to $100 million in some cases larger than that that weren't in existence in the year 2000 that are now really strong key figures for us.
Natural Choice party trays the refrigerated entrées our Di Lusso Deli Company product lines on the Grocery side the newer Compleats items Jennie-O's newer versions of burgers and ground tray pack products so -- and then the International teams had some as well.
So it's going to be a key driver for us going forward.
In terms of Compleats specifically absolutely we rolled out at Investor Day about 1.5 years ago the new color scheme and the fact that we're going to have marked [ph] Cafe Creations blue line of Compleats and a relaunch of the green line the more health-oriented items within the line.
This fall has now seen the introduction of what we're calling our cheesy pasta type items.
So mac and cheese and then other items that utilize the new technology that we put in place in our Dubuque Iowa plant to really upgrade the quality of those items.
They will be a feature of our advertising campaign in 2013 for the Hormel Compleats brand.
And so that we're -- and our early read on the sales results is quite strong.
So definitely innovation is going to play a role for Compleats and that microwave meal segment as well.
And our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Feeney with Janney Capital.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow-up a little bit on your discussion at Jennie-O Jeff.
I mean I get everything that Hormel has done to improve internally the margin structure of Jennie-O both in terms of product mix and discipline around volume and that's been great.
I guess what I'm surprised at and surprised positively at is the level of discipline the rest of the industry has exercised in the face of the stimulus of having enormous profits in this business by historical standards.
Do you get the sense others in the industry have adopted your strategy discipline towards -- and there's just a lot less commodity product out there? And I mean what explains that there hasn't been -- what are you seeing on the competitive landscape pricing-wise that sort of gives you confidence that the 11% to 15% can stick? Sure.
Oh gosh on industry discipline I mean everybody makes their own decisions.
We obviously announced our decision here again today in terms of making sure we keep our production levels tight.
We know of at least one expansion going on in the industry that's been announced in terms of a new plant complex going up in the Indiana area that's going to be late '13 early '14.
But otherwise we haven't seen a lot of expansion which probably makes sense given the drought and the grain pressures that a lot of the entities are under.
In terms of being able to lead in price I mean we do think having the leading brand the one that's supported in the marketplace and that consumers have a significant demand for does provide us with an ability to take that leadership position in that area.
We're looking forward to the year where we don't have to deal with a $1 or $2 bushel grain increase and that the team can just run with the wonderful portfolio they have.
But we'll play the cards that are dealt this year.
They'll deal with the cost increases that are coming.
But they really do have excellent momentum in terms of covering down their other costs and in terms of their value-added franchises.
And our next question is from the line of Eric Larson with CL King.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Jeff just a follow-up question on how we should kind of look at your overall corporate volume growth.
You've got the dynamics in turkey where you've got -- you're holding capacity tight but you've got a very positive mix in value-add.
And each one of your divisions has the various different components of that.
How should we look at what your overall volume growth for the company is going to look? And what should that average over time? I mean sometimes if you don't have any volume growth it doesn't necessarily mean you have a -- it's bad.
It's just that your mix has changed so much.
So how should we look at volume growth for Hormel on average over time? That's a fair question Eric.
We'll probably not see it this year with -- based on the production cuts and having less commodity meat to sell in both the Refrigerated and Jennie-O side.
But I would think over time looking at a 2% to 3% in terms of volumes would be the right mix to get us to the 5% ultimately in sales with the rest coming mostly from mix enhancement as we roll out more value-added items.
It further can be a little bit of a hard read in this environment where there are certain cases with value-added items where we've chosen in lieu of a pricing action to change packaging size.
And so that holds your volume down but ultimately is the right thing to do with that franchise.
But I cited a number of the brand-by-brand examples to one of the earlier questions.
And in those cases all those items I was citing had very solid volume number increases in addition to net sales increases.
So it's not just the price increases that we're registering in terms of the unit growth.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And when you look at your various divisions which ones would you characterize would have the potential for better volume growth overall relative to the corporate average? Well Grocery Products clearly and especially in the shorter run here with the advent of MegaMex and we're bringing on -- Don Miguel effect hit part of 2012 but will also have a lapping effect here in 2013 where the first half of the year will once again have new sales that don't have a comparison.
But beyond that I mean between the Mexican franchise and the Compleats franchise we really have a lot of optimism for Grocery Products.
Our International division ended up the year kind of slow on the reflected sales standpoint but their underlying franchises are quite strong.
And so I'm optimistic that they're going to be delivering growth that's above our 5% levels as well on the top line.
[Operator Instructions] And it appears there are no further questions sir so please continue.
Okay.
I'd like to thank everybody for joining in on this conference call and we wish everyone a happy Thanksgiving.
Is Tim Ramey still on the line? Does he have a wine recommendation? If not I'm sure that one of his Pinot Noirs would pair very well with a nice Thanksgiving dinner.
Thank you all.
Bye-bye.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the Hormel Foods Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Hormel Foods First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded today Thursday February 21 2013.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Kevin Jones.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Hormel Foods conference call for the first quarter of our fiscal 2013 year.
We released our results this morning before the market opened around 6:30 a.m.
Eastern Time.
If you did not receive a copy of the release you can find it on our website at www.hormelfoods.com under the Investors section.
On our call today is Jeff Ettinger Chairman of the Board President and Chief Executive Officer; and Jody Feragen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jeff will provide a review of the operating results for the quarter then Jody will provide detailed financial results for the quarter.
The line will be opened for questions following Jody's remarks.
An audio replay of this call will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m.
Central Time today February 21 2013.
The dial-in number is (800) 406-7325.
The access code is 4599951.
It will also be posted to our website and archived for 1 year.
Before we get started with the results of the quarter I need to reference the Safe Harbor statement.
Some of the comments made today will be forward-looking and are made under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the statements we will be making.
Among the factors that may affect the operating results of the company are fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw materials and market conditions for finished products.
Please refer to Pages 27 through 30 in our company's annual report for the fiscal year ended October 28 2012 for more details.
It can be accessed on our website.
[Operator Instructions] Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Kevin and good morning everyone.
We announced first quarter earnings this morning of $0.48 per share even with last year.
The value of our balanced business model was again on display as strong results by our Specialty Foods Grocery Products and International All Other segments offset weaker results by our Jennie-O Turkey Store segment.
Results in our Refrigerated Foods segment were even with last year hindered by poor pork operating margins.
In terms of the top line we generated record sales of $2.1 billion an increase of 4%.
Total volumes increased 2% despite a planned reduction in harvest levels at our hog processing operations.
We increased sales in 4 of our 5 segments.
I will now take you through each segment.
Our Grocery Products segment profit increased 13% and sales grew 24%.
We began including sales of our Don Miguel products in Grocery Products results beginning in the third quarter of last year and these sales were very robust in this recent quarter.
We were also pleased to see that sales for Grocery Products were up 4% excluding Don Miguel products.
Sales gains in Grocery Products were led by our SPAM family of products Hormel chili Mary Kitchen hash and Herdez salsa.
Sales of our Hormel Compleats microwave meals also increased during the quarter as our new Cheesy Pasta items aided growth.
Segment operating profit for Refrigerated Foods was even with last year as poor pork operating margins and weaker results in live production eroded the results in our value-added franchises and stronger performance by our affiliated business units.
The affiliated business units include Farmer John Burke and Dan's Prize.
Sales for Refrigerated Foods declined 2% in the quarter primarily attributable to a planned reduction of harvest levels in our hog processing operations.
We did achieve growth in retail sales of Hormel party trays retail and food service sales of Hormel Natural Choice deli meats and food service sales of our new HORMEL FIRE BRAISED Meats.
Segment operating profit at Jennie-O Turkey Store decreased 23% as we faced significantly higher grain costs and lower commodity turkey meat prices.
Increased sales of our value-added products across all trade channels were unable to offset these headwinds.
Sales of our Jennie-O Turkey Store fresh tray pack items turkey franks and turkey bacon were particularly strong as we continue to benefit from our Make The Switch advertising campaign over the past 3 years.
We reduced our harvest numbers at Jennie-O during the quarter in order to better balance our turkey meat supplies.
However higher bird weights offset most of the decrease in harvest levels this quarter.
Our Specialty Foods segment profit grew an impressive 43% in the quarter.
These results were attributable to both significant sales growth and improved operating efficiencies.
Sales grew 7% during the quarter led by Hormel Health Labs products private label canned meat savory ingredients nutritional products and ready-to-drink products.
Segment profit results in Specialty Foods have now registered year-over-year growth for 4 consecutive quarters.
Our All Other segment which consists primarily of our Hormel Foods International business grew operating profit a strong 37% on a 4% increase in sales.
Results were primarily attributable to strong exports of fresh pork and improved profitability by our China operations.
Our current fiscal year and beyond are shaping up well.
In our Grocery Products area we are seeing strength in all 3 of our key product platforms.
In the traditional canned goods area we have excellent momentum on the SPAM family of products Hormel Chili and Mary Kitchen hash.
Our microwave franchise is being reinvigorated by our new Cheesy Pasta Compleats items.
And within our MegaMex Foods joint venture we continue to grow our consumer franchises with Herdez salsas Don Miguel appetizers and Wholly Guacamole dips and salsas.
We expect continued growth from both our Specialty Foods and All Other International segments.
For Specialty Foods our approach of managing operations on a segment-wide basis is paying dividends coupled with some nice sales success in the industrial and private label arena.
For International we look for continued success in growing our SPAM franchise worldwide and with targeted fresh pork exports coupled with the added sales growth and efficiency we are seeing from our China operations.
We're also encouraged by the strength of our value-added protein products in both Refrigerated Foods and Jennie-O Turkey Stores.
This bodes well for positive long-term contributions by both units to our overall company.
We recognize that both of these units are facing some challenges in terms of immediate delivery of segment profit growth.
In the case of Refrigerated Foods the soft and even negative processing margins in pork are weaker than we had anticipated but we do expect the balance to eventually return to this area allowing for more traditional returns.
Higher grain costs and lower turkey commodity meat prices will continue to hinder margins at Jennie-O Turkey Store in the near term.
We expect the results to begin to improve as we move into the latter part of the year.
The planned reduction in harvest levels at Jennie-O Turkey Store and modest and strategic pricing should help mitigate those headwinds going forward.
I would point out that this unit is still delivering excellent operating results.
The current business is solid from our standpoint and we expect we will soon see a substantial added benefit in 2 of our 5 operating segments from the Skippy acquisition.
Although our ownership of this iconic brand is in its early stages we are excited by what we see in terms of opportunities for growth both domestically and abroad.
The financial benefits from this acquisition will emerge more significantly as the year proceeds in that our second quarter will bear the burden of a large amount of the charges related to the transaction.
Strong operating margins enhanced by expected synergies will flow fully through our results commencing in fiscal 2014.
The estimated charges and income are both reflected in our revised guidance.
In addition we continue to enjoy outstanding contributions to total company growth from our innovation efforts.
The latest example of our team's work is the planned launch this spring of our new Hormel roast snack wraps which are being offered by the Meat Products team within our Refrigerated Foods segment.
This line consists of 8 varieties of meat and cheese combinations each rolled in flatbread.
These ready on-the-go products can be enjoyed by consumers either in a cold state or easily warmed up in 20 seconds in a microwave oven.
This new line outpaced all of our benchmarks in recent test markets and we are receiving broad acceptance of the line from retailers throughout the United States.
Taking all of these factors into account we are raising our fiscal 2013 earnings guidance to a range of $1.93 per share to $2.03 per share from our prior guidance range of $1.90 per share to $2 per share.
At this time I will turn the call over to Jody Feragen to discuss the financial information relating to the first quarter.
Thank you Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
Earnings for the first quarter of fiscal 2013 totaled $129.7 million or $0.48 per share compared to $128.4 million also $0.48 per share a year ago.
Dollar sales for the first quarter totaled $2.12 billion compared to $2.04 billion last year a 4% increase.
Volume for the first quarter was 1.24 billion pounds up 2% from the same period last year.
Selling general and administrative expenses in the first quarter were 7.4% of sales down slightly from 7.5% of sales last year.
Selling general and administrative expenses are expected to be between 7% and 7.5% of sales for the full year.
Interest and investment income was $1.8 million for the first quarter compared to $1.6 million last year.
Interest expense for the quarter was $3.1 million compared to $3.2 million last year.
We expect interest expense to be approximately $12 million to $14 million for fiscal 2013.
Our effective tax rate in the first quarter was 33.5% versus 33.4% in fiscal 2012.
For fiscal 2013 we expect the effective tax rate to be between 33.5% and 34.5%.
The basic weighted average number of shares outstanding for the first quarter was 263.9 million.
The diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding for the first quarter was 269.1 million shares.
On January 29 2013 our Board of Directors approved a new share authorization to repurchase up to 10 million shares of our common stock.
We now have authorization in place to purchase approximately 11.2 million shares.
Depreciation and amortization for the quarter was $29.8 million down slightly from $30.8 million last year.
We expect depreciation and amortization to be approximately $120 million in fiscal 2013.
Total long-term debt at the end of the quarter was $250 million unchanged from last year.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $22.1 million compared to $30.5 million last year.
For fiscal 2013 we expect capital expenditures to be approximately $130 million to $140 million.
At the beginning of our second quarter we completed the acquisition of the Skippy business excluding China using our available cash balances.
We expect to have minimal borrowings on our revolving line of credit in the current quarter.
At this time I will turn the call over to the operator for the question-and-answer portion.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Farha Aslam with Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> My first question is more an industry one.
Recently you've seen China implement some restrictions on U.S.
exports with ractopamine.
How do you anticipate that will impact the industry and as well your business because you've seen recently a significant selloff in hogs as a result of that? Is that a net positive or negative for your business? Well Farha it's obviously very current what's going on there a very fluid situation.
Each day seems to bring some different results.
And it's fluid in terms of the market impact.
I mean for example yesterday the processing margins turned positive for the first time in quite a while now with a fairly sharp change from what we had been seeing before.
So it's probably a little early for us to tell both whether that's going to have that long-term impact on the processing margins and more specifically what it will do to export volumes.
I can say that in our case I mean we're not a big player when it comes to exporting of pork directly to China.
And so it's not -- we don't see it as a major direct impact on our business but clearly it can have spillover effects on the markets as you pointed out.
Research Division</strong> So net so far has been a positive because the hog prices have gone down and your pork margins turned positive? Per day.
Research Division</strong> And then just a follow-up.
You have now had Skippy for a few weeks.
As you've gotten under the hood is there anything that's been notably positive or negative that you've noted in the new business? I mean I guess we're still very positive about it.
It is very early.
The Skippy -- the onboarding happens in multiple phases with Skippy.
On the domestic side we are now involved in managing the Little Rock plant on a day-to-day basis.
And having had a great chance to get to know the team down there and they have an excellent operation there and so a business emanating from that venture operationally we're right in charge of it right now.
In terms of the sales logistics et cetera for the upcoming quarter those will still be handled by Unilever as part of the transition agreement we have.
We actually have up to 5 months of transition opportunity with Unilever.
Our goal is to get that done in 3 months but we're trying to have that totally in our hands by the beginning of the second half.
When it comes to the international side of the business it's a little tricky and so I'll kind of lay that out for how that works.
As we said on the Skippy acquisition call we don't own the Skippy plant in China yet and we won't for several months.
That has to be approved.
That permit has to be transferred by the Chinese government.
However sales internationally that emanate from the Little Rock plant so for example the Canada or Mexico those we have right now clearly have control over.
The sales of products out of the China plant into markets other than China will count in our international results starting now.
However the margin will probably be a little different than we ultimately experience because again we're not only having a co-pack but it's also being distributed and sold for us by Unilever.
And then lastly sales in China don't count at all right now where that comes with the permit.
And so that probably won't come on board until at the earliest Q4 and maybe more like the beginning of next year.
But overall we're really very excited by what we see.
Our next question is from the line of Tim Ramey with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> So I continue to be positively impressed with the margins of Jennie-O Turkey Store.
The macro certainly was worse than a 15% margin would have -- macro would have indicated a worse margin than 15% so congratulations on that.
Your comments suggested that -- are we going to see it sort of go a little lower in the near term or just sort of hang in this level and then recover as the year progresses? Do you have that sense of granularity about the business? Sure.
And what we talked about at the year-end call was sort of a new annualized guidance range for Jennie-O of an 11% to 15% range and we're still quite comfortable with that.
The 15% delivery this quarter -- Q1 and Q4 are traditionally their highest margin delivery quarters and the middle of the year is traditionally lower.
So on that basis alone if you're looking at percentage returns we would expect Q2 to be lower than Q1.
If you're looking at it on a year-over-year segment profit delivery basis we do feel the Q2 -- by the time you really get in all the different cost impacts and all the commodity market impacts our best look right now would say we'll probably have a somewhat -- a slightly deeper decline in Q2 year-over-year than what we experience in Q1 but we expect then to build a rebound from that as the year goes on.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I mean obviously the mix of commodity items changes from Q1 to Q2.
Is that right or am I overstating that? That's an impact.
The other impact that occurs is on the operations side as when we get summer conditions weights go down and typically margins decline.
Our next question is from the line of Diane Geissler with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask -- so in your script you said you through the quarter kind of came in line with where you thought it would be originally.
You did take up your guidance modestly.
Is that solely reflecting the closure of Skippy? And then if you could just tell us what are -- I'm assuming the onetime cost you're going to have is a separate line item in your P&amp;L when you report your second quarter results.
To the extent the Street excludes those as onetime items would your EPS range then be higher by whatever that amount is and if you could quantify that amount? I'll let Jody answer part of the second question.
I'm doubting she can answer the last part of it.
But in terms of the guidance change typically we've been in the motto of giving annual guidance for the past couple of years and our philosophy has been not to just tweak the range based on results of a given quarter.
We really want the focus to be on annual.
In this case with the significant announcement of the Skippy acquisition in the middle of the quarter we then did undertake the responsibility as a team to reassess okay what do we now think the year looks like on the basis of our knowledge right now? So clearly the addition of Skippy was factored in.
We looked at the trends of what was going on in our other businesses and that's where we ended up with moving the guidance range.
And as far as -- I think the part that was left for me is to talk about the onetime transaction costs.
I would expect that at the end of the second quarter when we have paid all the onetime transaction costs that we'd be able to give you some level of magnitude.
We have include our -- included our best estimates of those in the guidance range that we provided this quarter.
But a lot of them are uncertain at this point so I wouldn't want to give you something that wasn't precise.
Research Division</strong> Okay I appreciate that.
And then just as a follow-up on Skippy can you give us an idea about when you think you might be able to tell us what you expect in terms of synergies? I appreciate the China business you're not going to talk about that at this point.
But just in terms of you have to have some synergies within the U.S.
business itself which I'm assuming you'll be able to quantify over the next 6 months 3 months? We've tended to not really endeavor to precisely lay out "Okay here's the synergy target." We prefer to give you the all-in "Okay here's the operating results we expect to have from the business." Right? We provided that for the 2014 goal the $0.13 to $0.17 range and we're still comfortable with that.
However as we get our hands around the business more if we find that that has changed we certainly would provide an update then to that expectation.
Research Division</strong> Were there some synergies included in that '14 impact that you gave us when you announced the deal? Yes.
And it was -- but yes that was intended to encompass that.
Our next question is from the line of Ann Gurkin with Davenport &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just want to ask about 2 areas.
One is your strategy in deli meats.
Are you changing any pricing or trying to get into any different segments in that area? And then second can you just update me on peanut contracts for the Skippy business? Where are those? On the first question on deli meats I mean the category is evolving somewhat.
We are still a significant behind-the-glass player with ham and turkey being 2 of the major protein components that are behind there.
And we certainly are working actively with all our retail partners to keep that business as robust as possible.
But it's a business that has seen small declines for the last couple of years.
A lot more activity is occurring in grab-and-go context.
And between our Natural Choice offerings which are still doing quite well in the marketplace and our party trays would be another example of deli offering and the snack trays -- so that's our effort to go after those kind of areas and provide other options when it comes to deli meats.
On peanut contracts I'm really going to have to punt on that one and maybe come back to you next quarter.
I -- we just don't have our hands around that aspect of it completely at this stage.
It's still pretty early on.
Our next question is from the line of Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to chat a little bit about the pork margins that you mentioned.
I mean overall the pork complex has been pretty weak right? I mean the hog prices have come down recently and pork cutout has been weak now for a while.
I mean in that environment with the value-added portfolio that you have you typically do well or better than you did in Refrigerated Foods.
So first am I understanding that correctly? And if I am I mean what's different about this time around where you have weak cutouts and you have relatively weak hog prices and yet the Refrigerated Foods business showed some weak results? Let me try to help you with that Akshay.
We did see hog costs this quarter that were below the quarter a year ago but quite a bit above where we were at the end of fiscal 2012.
We would expect those higher hog prices to continue for the full year.
Now that is certainly subject to all those uncertainties related to the recent news on China.
What we have seen is low domestic demand for pork.
Certainly that's driving that cutout and the value of those primals that go into our value-added products lower which do benefit our value-added businesses.
And sometimes that's not quite an immediate benefit but happens over a period of time as you work through some inventory.
So we would expect higher cutout values for the rest of the year and that should help Refrigerated Foods as they turn back into more normalized margins.
Research Division</strong> So is -- so if I understand correctly the cutout being weak net-net should be a positive since you have a value-added portfolio.
And what you're saying is there may just be some timing issues related to your portfolio.
Is that a fair way to think about it? Right I would expect those margins to improve as the year goes on.
Our next question is from the line of Andrew Strelzik with BMO Capital Markets.
This is Andrew Strelzik for Ken Zaslow.
First I'm interested in how you're thinking about capital allocation particularly on the M&amp;A side after the Skippy deal? Has your appetite for acquisitions changed at all? What type of deal or size of deal would interest you? Any color around that would be helpful.
Sure.
We really haven't changed our outlook.
We're intent on growing our business.
Our long-term guidance for the business is 5% top line 10% bottom line.
And if you look at our track record over the past dozen years I mean clearly acquisitions have played a role on that and we're very pleased to bring on the Skippy brand as the latest example of that.
While that did winnow down our cash position and our slight net borrowers after that we still have virtually no debt and realize we have significant debt capacity and are fully ready and capable of utilizing that capacity if the right opportunity comes along.
In terms of strategic area I mean we were excited by the many things that Skippy brought to the party.
I've been asked a couple times "Gee does that mean you're only going to buy shelf-stable items now or grocery items?" And while we definitely like that aspect of that transaction that does not mean that we wouldn't look to continue to grow our protein businesses our international business our specialty business et cetera.
So we're -- we still intend to be actively looking for things that would be logical fits with our company and we have the financial capability to do that.
Appreciate the color on that.
My second question is related to food service.
Some of the recent data we've been seeing shows a weakening in the food service segments so I'm just interested in what you're seeing there.
We're seeing the same thing.
Now food services to me has been a very choppy environment for quite some time now I mean almost since the recession began.
It has its ups and downs.
It seems to recover.
It goes back.
This weakness that we're seeing is really only a couple months old.
Some of the theories out there include the recent hike in gas prices they include the lapse of the payroll tax holiday and I think those probably do make sense.
I would say though I mean based on what has happened over the last couple of years that consumers do sometimes seem to for a short time change their habits and maybe okay have more meals at home.
But they usually eventually kind of revert back to what their preferred mix of at-home versus out-of-home occasions are.
And so my best guess right now is that this will be a fairly short-term phenomenon and we'll see at least some growth returning to the food service segment going forward.
And then lastly you talked about reducing your harvest volumes on the turkey side.
Can you quantify that? And have you changed your outlook for production levels internally for the rest of the year? Yes the goal we -- I think we kind of said it's probably in the maybe 1.5% range was the annualized pound change we were looking to see.
And we acknowledged I guess in the comments earlier that we made the head adjustment that we had planned.
But at least in this early season the weights ended up a little higher.
We do think still over the course of the full year there will be a reduction.
Whether it'll be the 1.5% within fiscal 2013 it may not be after having a quarter where that didn't occur.
But the trend will definitely be in that traction.
And that's part of -- I mean commodity meat values are lower and so we really don't see the need to have surplus meat in this environment.
We'll still have sufficient meat to support our growing value-added businesses for Jennie-O.
Our next question is from the line of Christine McCracken with Cleveland Research.
Just -- I don't know if you mentioned it earlier.
I might have missed it.
But we're hearing a lot about this sequester and the potential for the furlough to impact USDA inspectors.
I'm wondering is it realistic to think they could even withdraw those inspectors and do you have any contingency plans in place should that happen? It's definitely an issue we're keeping our eye on.
And obviously we're one of many players that would be affected.
I mean the sequester side related to inspectors is just one of numerous things going on in the economy that may or may not happen depending on how the political games play out.
Our best information right now would suggest that okay even if no budget deal or change is made and a sequester begins if there are notice requirements within the government to their own inspectors that would probably push a change in operations out to the May June timeframe.
And then we'll just have to see okay how many -- what are the numbers you're talking about? What does that potentially do to our operations? Our position has been consistent with the position articulated by the American Meat Institute which is we believe that there are other discretionary things within the USDA's total operation that potentially would be more logical targets for reductions in costs versus the mandatory presence of inspectors in our facilities.
And if they're not there and that means all those people have to get laid off and all that food is not delivered that seems to be a pretty disruptive thing to the economy and society and perhaps we can come up with a better solution than that.
But it's a very fluid situation.
It definitely would -- it's something we have to keep our eye on.
But right now we don't expect there to be an immediate impact from it.
Okay.
And then just one follow-up.
It sounds like you're pretty optimistic on value-added sales going forward tied to your portfolio and yet we're seeing some weakness on the protein side for commodity meats.
I'm curious how does that fit? You've got pretty strong expectations I guess around more expensive or what I would consider premium products versus weaker expectations for commodity.
So maybe you can explain further? Sure.
Christine one explanation I would have is the commodity markets at least for our 2 main proteins turkey and pork are significantly influenced by export activity.
And so as the -- there's been Russia doing this and China doing that and as things potentially tighten up some on that basis that will have an overall impact on the commodity values that clearly is affecting turkey for example.
Now as we move up and up the value ladder into having consumer-based items that yes come from protein but that are used by consumers whether they're meal-type items like chili and Compleats or Don Miguel or items that are more fully meat like a Natural Choice.
I mean our experience right now is that those are very robust franchises.
We're growing them at high single digits in many cases and they're meeting the lifestyle needs of consumers.
And so I think those are somewhat divorced then from what the commodity markets are doing.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from the line of Eric Larson with CL King.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This -- and we've talked about this before.
Maybe Jeff this might be a question for Jody as well I'm just not sure.
Can you quantify the impact -- the margin impact of including the Don Miguel sales in Grocery Products in the quarter? And the reason why I'm asking is because actually the profit impact was bigger than I had expected.
And you did a good sales in some of your very high-margin products in the quarter SPAM et cetera.
So is there a way to sort of quantify what the impact was with the Don Miguel sales in Grocery for the quarter? Well you have to remember that we get an equity and earnings contribution from the Don Miguel sales so it's not a margin thing.
And I'm not off the top of my head thinking what that impact would have been quarter-over-quarter.
That might be a follow-up with Kevin if there's any additional color.
Sorry.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Well that was the second part of my follow-up.
Your equity earnings were actually down modestly in the quarter.
I think you were at $9.8 million in equity earnings versus $11 million the year before.
So I was just trying to reconcile those 2 lines a little bit.
That's all.
We can maybe get that offline.
Well but let me do -- let me clarify what is in that equity and earnings line that's on the top side financial statement.
That is equity and earnings in not only our domestic joint venture the MegaMex but also our international joint ventures.
So that -- any change there is not just attributable to MegaMex.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No I realize that.
And I've -- again I was -- I saw that that was down as well.
So I mean I was just trying to -- I realize there's more than just Don Miguel sales in that equity line.
So I was just trying to get an idea of what the impact was with all of that for the quarter.
Okay.
The other thing to remember there Eric with Don Miguel is the only change that has occurred year-over-year is the sales being reflected in the sales line.
And we've owned the deal for 2-plus years.
So the bottom line profit of it has been our half -- share has been the same.
But Jody is correct in terms of you probably need to kind of dive into it maybe offline to know which part flowed through margins versus equity in earnings.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's -- it's more of a technical question than anything else in my judgment.
And I'm showing no additional questions at this time.
I would like to turn it back to Kevin Jones for closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you for all of you who did take the time to listen especially those who'll be at CAGNY in Boca Raton Florida.
I wish everybody a great rest of the day and please feel free to follow up with me directly with any follow-up questions.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Hormel Foods Corporation Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now hand the conference over to your host Mr.
Kevin Jones.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Hormel Foods conference call for the second quarter of fiscal 2013.
We released our results this morning before the market opened around 6:30 a.m.
Eastern Time.
If you did not receive a copy of the release you can find it on our website at www.hormelfoods.com under the Investors section.
On our call today is Jeff Ettinger Chairman of the Board President and Chief Executive Officer; and Jody Feragen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jeff will provide a review of the operating results for the quarter then Jody will provide detailed financial results.
The line will be opened for questions following Jody's remarks.
An audio replay of this call will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m.
Central Time today May 23 2013.
The dial-in number is (800) 406-7325 and the access code is 4617224.
It will also be posted to our website and archived for 1 year.
Before we get started with the results of the quarter I need to reference the Safe Harbor statement.
Some of the comments made today will be forward-looking and are made under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the statements we will be making.
Among the factors that may affect the operating results of the company are fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw materials and market conditions for finished products.
Please refer to Pages 28 through 35 in the company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended January 27 2013 for more details.
It can be accessed on our website.
[Operator Instructions] Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Kevin and good morning everyone.
We announced second quarter earnings this morning of $0.46 per share down 4% from last year.
Sales were $2.2 billion an increase of 7%.
Total volumes increased 4% despite a planned reduction in harvest levels at both our hog processing and turkey processing operations.
The addition of Skippy peanut butter sales and the consolidation of our Don Miguel sales in our grocery product segment were a significant contributor to the sales gains.
This will be the last quarter of comparison to quarters without Don Miguel product sales.
I will now take you through each segment.
Our Grocery Products segment delivered a good quarter.
Segment profit increased 10% and sales grew 49% including sales of Skippy peanut butter and Don Miguel products.
We were pleased that sales by Grocery Products were up 4% even excluding Skippy peanut butter and Don Miguel products.
Sales gains in Grocery Products were led by CHI-CHI'S and Herdez products Hormel Compleats microwave meals and Dinty Moore stew.
Sales of our Hormel Compleats microwave meals increased for the second consecutive quarter as our new cheesy pasta items helped drive growth.
Segment operating profit for Refrigerated Foods was up 3% as overall improvement across most of the business modestly offset losses in live production operations.
Our affiliated business units which include Farmer John and Burke among others showed significant growth.
Sales for Refrigerated Food declined 2% in the quarter primarily attributable to the planned reduction of harvest levels in our hog processing operations and from exiting our feed sales business.
We saw growth in retail sales of Hormel party trays Hormel convenience bacon and LLOYD'S Ribs and in Foodservice sales of Hormel Natural Choice deli meats HORMEL pecanwood bacon and our new HORMEL FIRE BRAISED Meats.
We are excited about the potential growth that our new HORMEL REV snack wraps will bring to our Refrigerated Foods sales.
These products are arriving on shelf at retailers nationally and we will launch a significant advertising campaign starting in July to support this new product line.
Segment operating profit at Jennie-O Turkey Store declined 26% on a sales decline of 2% as we faced significantly-higher grain cost and lower commodity turkey meat prices.
Increased sales of our value-added product in the retail and food service trade channels were insufficient to offset these headwinds.
Nonetheless sales of our Jennie-O Turkey Store fresh tray pack items and turkey bacon remained particularly strong as we continued to benefit from our Make The Switch advertising campaign over the past 3 years.
Harvest levels at Jennie-O declined more than 2% during the quarter which reduced our exposure to weak commodity turkey prices.
Our Specialty Foods segment achieved another strong quarter with operating profit up 24%.
These results were attributable to significant sales growth as the team has done a nice job expanding the customer base.
Sales grew 7% during the quarter led by ingredients ready-to-drink beverages nutritional products and sugar.
The agreement allowing Diamond Crystal Brands to sell SPLENDA sweetener into the food service trade channel will expire at the end of June.
Our Specialty Foods segment will be challenged by the loss of these sales in the back half of the year.
We also regret to report that this loss of business will necessitate Diamond Crystal's closing of its Perrysburg Ohio plant.
Diamond Crystal will be offering severance payments and priority status for employment opportunities at their other facilities to those impacted by this action.
Our international and other segment continues to thrive.
Operating profit grew a robust 21% on a 21% increase in sales.
These results were led by increased sales of our SPAM family of products improved profitability of our fresh pork products and better results from our China operations.
We are excited about the benefit that the Skippy peanut butter business will bring to our sales and profitability in this segment.
The integration of international sales outside of China that were part of the closing on January 30 is progressing well.
We still expect to close on the sales within China and the operation located in Weifang by the end of our fiscal year.
We expect a strong overall finish to fiscal 2013.
In our grocery products area we are seeing solid momentum in all 4 key product platforms including our core canned items our Mexican products our microwave meals and Skippy peanut butter.
Regarding Skippy we are pleased with the progress we are making in gaining new distribution and in obtaining strong execution at the store level.
Our outlook remains bright for our international and other segment as well as we start to attain the benefits of distributing our SPAM family of products and our new Skippy line together.
We also expect continued sales growth and efficiency gains from our business in China.
At Jennie-O turkey Store we are looking for improved results in the second half as pressures from higher grain costs and weaker commodity turkey prices begin to moderate.
We are encouraged by the continued strength of our Jennie-O value-added products.
For Refrigerated Foods the processing margins in pork have been weaker than we had anticipated this year.
This segment has experienced some of the same challenges as Jennie-O in terms of higher grain cost in live production areas and weaker commodity pork prices.
However we do expect a balance to eventually return to this area.
We believe the investment we are making in the Rev snack wrap rollout will establish the foundation for a beneficial new product platform for the Refrigerated Foods group.
After a great first half our Specialty Foods segment will now be tasked with replacing the lost SPLENDA sweetener business.
We have a number of initiatives underway aimed at building their other businesses.
Taking all of the foregoing significant factors into account we are maintaining our fiscal 2013 earnings guidance range of $1.93 per share to $2.03 per share.
At this time I will turn the call over to Jody Feragen to discuss the financial information relating to the quarter.
Thank you Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
Earnings for the second quarter of fiscal 2013 totaled $125.5 million or $0.46 per share compared to $127.9 million or $0.48 per share a year ago.
The results for 2013 include non-recurring cost incurred in the Skippy acquisition of about $9 million.
Dollar sales for the second quarter totaled $2.2 billion compared to $2.0 billion last year a 7% increase.
Volume for the second quarter was 1.2 billion pounds up 4% from the same period last year.
Selling general and administrative expenses in the second quarter were 8% of sales up from 7.4% of sales last year.
Selling general and administrative expenses were higher due to Skippy-related transition and transaction costs in the second quarter.
We expect a minimal impact on selling general and administrative expenses from the China closing of Skippy.
SG&amp;A expenses are expected to be around 7.5% of sales for the full year.
Interest and investment income was $1.1 million for the second quarter compared to $2.3 million last year.
Interest expense for the quarter was $3.1 million down from $3.3 million last year.
We expect interest expense to be approximately $12 million to $14 million for fiscal 2013.
Our effective tax rate in the second quarter was 31.5% versus 33.5% in fiscal 2012.
The lower tax rate is primarily due to settlements with various foreign and state tax jurisdictions.
For fiscal 2013 we expect the effective tax rate to be between 33% and 34%.
The basic weighted average number of shares outstanding for the second quarter was 265 million.
The diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding for the second quarter was 271 million.
We repurchased 200 000 shares of common stock during the second quarter spending $7.9 million.
We have 11 million shares remaining to be repurchased from the current authorizations in place.
Depreciation and amortization for the quarter was $31 million up slightly from $29 million last year.
We expect depreciation and amortization to be approximately $120 million to $125 million in fiscal 2013.
Total long-term debt at the end of the quarter was $250 million unchanged from last year.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $23 million compared to $28 million last year.
For fiscal 2013 we expect capital expenditures to be approximately $120 million to $130 million.
At this time I will turn the call over to the operator for the question-and-answer portion of the call.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Ken Zaslow from BMO Capital Markets.
Just one housekeeping question.
When you said Jennie-O's improved results will be improved in the back half is it sequential or year-over-year? We're talking year-over-year comparisons so for the first 2 quarters clearly significant drops from the prior year.
As we had indicated when we headed into the year we knew last year had really strong commodity turkey prices in the first half of the year and we were in a much more beneficial position in terms of those grain costs both in terms of the actual daily cost and with our hedges from the prior year.
So we dropped nearly kind of $18 million a quarter year-over-year for the first 2 quarters.
We expect that to improve significantly at the end of second half getting back to even and then gaining as the half proceeds.
Okay.
And then my bigger picture question is can you talk about your input costs and your ability to price for the Grocery Products business and how you think about that going into the back half of the year but also going into 2014? Well we don't have any 2014 pricing relating guidance yet.
I mean we certainly -- it's sort of a franchise-by-franchise approach when it comes to the grocery group right now in terms of cost.
I mean it ranges anywhere from pressure we're getting in costs on beef- and chicken-related items to frankly the pork side costs have been fairly -- have been fine.
We've had favorable avocado costs.
We're new to the peanut butter business but we've had favorable peanut cost thus far.
In terms of announced pricing actions I mean kind of right before we closed on the deal Unilever did follow a price decline on peanut butter and so that's enacted in the marketplace.
There's no further pricing actions that we have at this time on that franchise.
We did take a price increase on Hormel Compleats.
That was the first one in several years.
We wanted -- I think as we talked about in prior calls wanted to get that franchise humming again get the right marketing support get the right product mix and we're happy with what the team has done in that regard and so we just have now coupled that with a sort of a catch-up price increase on that item.
But at this point otherwise we don't have any broad pricing actions in store for grocery products.
So you assume -- so the volume should be relatively at historical level? There wouldn't be any dislocations with volumes throughout the next call it 6 to 24 months that we could see? No on grocery I mean we have really great momentum right now in grocery.
I'm expecting very solid results on both top line and bottom line for grocery for the remainder of the year.
Our next question is from Christine McCracken from Cleveland Research.
Jeff you said that you had really strong margins on your export business and it was a bit curious given some of the trade interruptions that we saw in the quarter and I'm just curious if it was a delayed response if that product had already been sold or if those markets to Russia and China just aren't a big deal for you.
It's more of the latter.
I mean we're really kind of a niche player when it comes to exports.
We tend to sell more of the off all-based items when it comes to fresh pork.
Clearly SPAM is also a major export component of our overall portfolio for international and in that case those margins and sales have been solid contributors to the growth that international has been providing.
And are you anticipating any retaliatory actions on this COOL legislation here I guess the deadline is today in terms of Canada and Mexico and what that could mean to the overall pork market? Well I mean we've been supporters of the American Meat Institute and other trade associations' articulation to our government that we really felt that a modification to the country of origin labeling program would be beneficial frankly to us as well as the trading partners in North America.
It's kind of hard to read whether that's falling on deaf ears or whether there's going to be at least some progress in that.
But in terms of retaliation I don't have any greater sense Christine I guess than anyone else as to what might happen in reaction to that.
Our next question is from Eric Larson from CL King.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Jeff could you give us a little flavor? This is on the turkey side.
We've seen a relatively steady increase in sort of the production metrics for the industry over the last let's say 6 --  4 to 6 quarters in egg sets et cetera and it looks like it finally kind of started catching up on the commodity pricing in that sector.
Could you give us a little feel of where you think that -- the production numbers for the industry will be and why that should start maybe kind of even getting better in the second half? Well I mean I think you're right in terms of sort of the long-term ramp that's occurred in the turkey business but there has been kind of a reaction as things have moderated as the commodity markets are less favorable as grain costs have gone up.
And so our read of the industry numbers is we're looking at kind of down 2% to 3% numbers.
And of course as we announced at the beginning of the year in terms of what our production levels were going to be we've sought to put our production levels at about a 2% decline on a year-over-year basis.
So that's a fairly favorable outlook heading out for the remainder of the year.
We know there is 1 new plant coming online starting next year the far-best organization in Indiana and so that you may at some point see a tick-up in egg sets and whole placements related to the filling of that facility but otherwise I think we're in a fairly benign environment for the balance for turkey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The -- just a follow-up on that.
Do you expect your harvest numbers for turkey to be kind of down that low-single percentage range for your second half? And then also your harvest numbers in pork what would be the second half outlook for harvest numbers for that division as well? I think we'd stick with the full year number we've given you.
We'll admit it's -- we don't always hit it exactly on the nose.
I mean turkey is a good example of that and we talked about 1.5% to 2% decline on an annual basis.
In the first quarter the weights came in a little more favorable than we thought and so we didn't -- it wasn't that steep a drop.
The second quarter was actually steeper than 2% but on average we're still for both supply chains looking at that range.
Our next question is from Diane Geissler from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Could you tell me please how big the SPLENDA business is? Obviously it's material -- you had to close the plant but I'm just trying to get an idea about revenue coming from that business and its contribution on an operating profit basis.
We really don't do line by line either sales or operating profits I mean in terms of we're trying to give you a little bit of a sense of magnitude of impact for Specialty Foods by virtue of our comments that here or there really strong growth numbers that they managed to deliver in the first half.
We're saying it's going to be much more of a challenge in the second half so it's significant but I can't give you a precise number on that.
I will also add though that when it comes to kind of the bottom line impact our overall guidance in maintaining our annualized range is baking in everything we see coming in terms of the impact from the loss of that business for 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay and the -- what is the ACV on the Rev product at this point? The reported ACV from the team is in the 70% to 80% range but they're telling -- that's kind of the acceptance level.
I mean I'm not sure than Nielsen when you scan it you -- there can be as much as a month lag sometimes it's from -- when a customer says "Okay I'm taking it" to when it actually shows up on the shelf.
But those are the kind of numbers we expect to have in place here I would assume by next month and we want -- for sure we want them in place by July when the advertising kicks off and our team seems very confident that we're going to hit that.
Research Division</strong> And how many SKUs are on that product platform and are the retailers taking all of the SKUs or...
There are 8 varieties and most retailers are taking all of them.
There are a few that are taking 5 or 6 versus all 8.
In many cases we're getting double facings for each item and so it's -- we're very excited about where it -- for the chains that we already see it on shelf and how they're executing it it's going to be in a good position.
And our repeat numbers we've kept the test markets the 3 markets that we started last fall we've continued to have those markets in place with the product and the repeat numbers are still very strong for that item so that's very encouraging as well.
Research Division</strong> And the price point on that is what? It's plus or minus from $2.
You'll see some in the high $1s.
You'll see some in the low $2s.
Our next question is from Akshay Jagdale from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> First question is just on Refrigerated Food volumes and even Jennie-O turkey actually so it's 2 parts.
Can you break down the volume decline in terms of value-added versus commodity? From what I understand your -- the hogs prices weren't down I mean they were down like 1% or something.
So I'm just trying to understand the dynamics there if there's anything going on on the value-added side that we need to be maybe concerned about? I guess I'll take the Refrigerated Foods side Akshay.
Well we did see the reduction in harvest volumes as well as some feed sales that we had been doing that we are no longer in that business.
So those would be the 2 big impacts on volume for Refrigerated Foods.
As far as the value-added franchises obviously the fresh pork business moves up and down with the harvest volumes.
So you're going to see reductions there when the harvest is lower but we're excited about some of our value-added franchises in the Refrigerated Foods section.
We saw great results on our party tray business.
So we continue to look for those to deliver along with the Rev products that will be hitting in the back half of the year.
So for Jennie-O clearly the total pounds processed were down the total pounds sold were down but most of the drop in sales really came out of -- was in the commodity side of it.
Our value-added volumes were actually up for the quarter very significant gains continuing on the retail side and solid gains on Foodservice a little less so on the deli components.
So those are kind of our 3 go-to-market value-added components but overall from a Jennie-O franchise basis we're still in very good shape in terms of our sales volumes through to consumers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one on Skippy so can you talk about sort of longer-term? I know you haven't owned that business for that long but for the time that you've owned it what have you learned like top 2 maybe positives relative to your expectations and 2 -- 1 or 2 sort of negatives relative to your expectations.
Sure.
Well I don't have any negatives right now Akshay.
I guess that's a good thing.
From a positive standpoint our team's done a great job of getting ahead of the curve in terms of the integration aspect.
So we had a 5-month transition agreement in place with the seller that we ended up getting out of in 3 months because we were ready to go both from a plant standpoint and an order-to-cash standpoint.
The sales team is very excited about having this franchise.
They're working on a customer by customer basis to see if there were distribution voids or opportunities to see if they can promote the product better.
In some cases this is what we said when we announced it -- this was going to instantly be our single largest grocery products franchise.
And so in some markets we're finding -- I mean this has really made us a much more major distributor and supplier to certain retailers and so it really kind of elevates our game in terms of what we can talk about there.
One of the things sort of yet to come in terms of the Skippy franchise is our assessment on the marketing and the advertising side.
We're starting to study that what would be a good proposition there where would that rank compared to our other opportunities in the company and we'll certainly have some guidance and information on that as we head into 2014 but that's a task for the remainder of -- kind of middle and fall of this year.
Our next question is from Farha Aslam from Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> First just a quick housekeeping.
Skippy sales are you willing to disclose what they were in the quarter? We really don't do line-by-line sales.
I mean we gave you a sense of those sales though for on a kind of U.S.
and foreign basis when we closed the deal and it's consistent with kind of -- it's not a particularly seasonal product so I mean you can certainly get close to the number by looking at it that way.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just following on to Diane's question regarding that Specialty Foods in the second half do you expect operating profits to still be positive for that segment or do you think year-over-year we should build in some cushion and anticipate some downside risk? Well I mean based on the announcement today you can see there is an element of a ramp-down to it the business we end up leaving our facility and our sales organization at the end of June so that takes us -- we still have it for 2 periods of third quarter.
So I mean I think you can look at third quarter there'll be less of an impact and fourth quarter there'll be more of an impact.
But just to clarify the segment will be profitable.
Research Division</strong> You -- no of course the segment will be profitable but do you -- but year-over-year you expect profits in that segment particularly in the fourth quarter to be down? That's a fair statement yes.
I would expect that.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then just going forward now that Skippy is largely integrated looking at your balance sheet and cash flow and organization do you feel like you're ready to look at incremental M&amp;A opportunities and could you just share with us any color you can about that M&amp;A landscape? Sure.
Yes we're very pleased with the domestic integration of Skippy.
We still have the international piece that will come later this year and we believe we have all the teams in place to get that done successfully.
So certainly a great testament to the people putting a lot of effort behind that.
And we are absolutely willing and able to take on additional opportunities as they present themselves and we continue to look for things that fit with our strategic areas of focus and we will continue to do that and I believe that we have plenty of capacity.
Our next question is from Robert Moskow from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to know if you're looking at the next couple of quarters maybe 4 quarters you're guiding to higher turkey prices lower grain cost headwinds both in refrigerated and in turkey.
Can we add lower input prices for peanut butter in there as well? Certainly for the remainder of the year.
I mean we really haven't frankly done a lot yet with '14.
Research Division</strong> Okay but it could be -- is this possible it could spill over into '14 -- like all of these factors? Sure.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right good.
And then -- and maybe just to follow-up on refrigerated I don't remember the last time that increased grain costs showed up as a negative to profits in Refrigerated Foods.
Can you remind us like what your live production operations are in terms of size and what's the strategic value of holding on to those? Sure.
Perhaps about less than 20% of our production comes from our live production units that are based in the western part of the United States or contracts that we have with growers that include a grain-based component.
I would expect some of those grain-based contracts will end at the end of this year but I do think that we'll keep a component of those going forward.
From a strategic standpoint we continue to evaluate all our operations and look to sustain those that provide the best shareholder returns.
So I don't have any specific comment on our live grow operations at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Jody what about the packing margins in the quarter? Did you say what those were whether they were -- how they were different versus a year ago? Boy the comparisons have become much more difficult with the USDA changing the mandatory price reporting I think effective in April.
So we're no longer getting the comparable voluntary price reporting as well as the USDA changed the methodology used in building up that USDA cutout.
So year-over-year comparisons are a little difficult.
If I look at just our business and the way we do it I would say it would be a net even to last year.
We do expect the industry to get back into some more moderating and normalized levels in the back half and that there should be some improvement but giving you a year-over-year is difficult at this point.
Research Division</strong> And how do you feel about your processing capability there the efficiency of your packing the strategic value of doing that? Do feel like you're -- I've noticed very good numbers from Tyson in that regard like do you feel like there's a way for you to close that gap in terms of improving your efficiencies? Well we have 2 3 plants that basically do live harvest and we've looked at our Farmer John plant to really bring in the number of heads that equal the amount of value-added product that they need and they've done a great job of reducing cost in that area by doing that.
Sure our Fremont plant probably could be a little more efficient because it's only a single harvest but it better matches what we need for our value-added.
So I would say that having those processing capabilities to provide our own sole source of raw materials is valuable to us at this point.
[Operator Instructions] We have a follow-up question from Christine McCracken from Cleveland Research.
I just wanted to say it was an awfully cold spring.
We had snow as you probably know until late May in a lot of areas.
I'm wondering as you look at your grocery portfolio curious if there is any effect on overall sales you think from the colder weather? Boy maybe in Dinty Moore otherwise of the items that we're carrying the day no I mean Mexican really has very little seasonality we've learned that peanut butter has very little seasonality.
Microwave meals if anything skew to back to school in that kind of time range.
So no I guess I really don't see that as having that kind of impact on our grocery portfolio.
Okay.
And then if you think about the consumers right now we're getting a lot of I think a pretty wide array of data points in terms of consumer strength especially in the protein area where prices have gone up quite a bit.
You obviously have record high beef prices and I think turkey has had a bit of pushback from the higher prices.
Just curious how would you -- can you put any color around what you're seeing in terms of buying patterns? Are they going towards the value end of the portfolio? Or has there been any pushback in terms of these price increases that you needed to put through? Well I mean it really seems to vary item by item and I suppose our items probably have different consumer targets or different consumers who frequent those areas.
So let's just take turkey as an example.
I mean our fresh tray pack items are still growing very solidly.
We have had to take pricing on them on a fairly steady basis unfortunately with the -- not just this year's increase in grain cost but a multiple year increase in it.
Yet I think we've done the right things in terms of marketing that brand and appealing to the health element for that consumer and so that's -- it's still growing great.
Behind the glass deli sales of turkey those are softer and I do think price point is a factor in that as both the retailer and the manufacturer unfortunately had to push those up some.
I do think there's been some migration by consumers to other choices there.
So it seems to vary by item.
I just look at the overall franchises of the company and I'm just pleased that we have so many of them that are in solid volume positions and so overall I'm satisfied with where we're at in terms of our pricing.
Our next question is from Tim Remy from D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Jody could you parse the 7% sales number into acquisition volume and price mix or anything like that? I didn't see that you did that but if I did -- if you did I'm sorry.
We split out the sales numbers on -- boy I don't -- you know what Tim I don't have that off the top of my head.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I see you did a lot of that in the segments but just trying to avoid the math.
And also on the Skippy one-time charge is that a net of tax number or was there a tax cost associated with that or a tax benefit associated with that? That's the before-tax number so that's what would be included up in the segment.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And so in a normal tax rate? Those would be generally deductible from a tax standpoint.
Our next question is from Ann Gurkin from Davenport.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to start with Skippy and the conversation about the one-time charge for -- of $9 million in the quarter.
Should we expect any more charges in the back half? I know you commented on China but is there anything else to think about? Nothing that would be substantial.
So that would be the major portion and a lot of that's banker and legal fees and due diligence fees.
So those are already done even for the China sites.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then any changes in anticipated synergies from Skippy? No in fact we continued to reevaluate potential opportunity for synergy.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if we could just walk through the outlook for the year you maintain your outlook which includes the Skippy cost I would assume the lost SPLENDA sales so what is the offset for that lost SPLENDA sales and can you walk me through the different components? And what's maybe changed in the different segment outlook as a component of the overall company outlook? Okay.
Well here's how we look at second half.
We see Grocery Products in a position to deliver very strong results.
They're really hitting on all cylinders in terms of their different franchises.
We have good MegaMex business.
The can business is by and large growing.
Microwave has now had restored growth and then Skippy clearly will kick in a contribution to that as well.
The other segment that we're expecting a really solid second half from would be international.
I think historically people have looked at our international and thought oh gee that's kind of small and maybe doesn't have as big of an impact.
But I pulled the comparison just on a 3-year basis for the first half so this year first half segment profit for international is $32.7 million.
In 2010 it was $11.8 million.
So I mean it's become a major contributor to us and we expect the growth in the second half for international to be every bit as strong as it's been in the first half.
They've got good SPAM momentum.
They've got good niche pork items China's doing well and again Skippy will kick in not -- obviously we don't have the sales in China yet but for the international sales that are outside of China.
When it comes to Jennie-O and refrigerated I mean we're looking at them being contributors to growth in the second half but not barnburners.
In Jennie-O's case that is a positive overall to our outlook because as I mentioned at the outset obviously we had some fairly significant deficits year-over-year coming out of Jennie-O in segment profit for the first half of the year as we had anticipated and so we should now be back in a position where Jennie-O can hold its own and grow a little bit.
And then Refrigerated Foods is kind of in that mode as well.
I mean overall refrigerated has probably been a little bit under our expectation for the first half and so we're not seeing a huge gain out of them in the second half but it will -- but certainly a gain.
And so all those positives obviously as you point out and as we've talked about earlier in the call the event with SPLENDA and the Specialty Foods was not something we had anticipated when the year began but we now -- know it's coming and feel that the other 4 units are going to be able to more than cover any declines that are related to the loss of the SPLENDA business.
[Operator Instructions] We have a follow-up question from Akshay Jagdale from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just on Skippy can you just remind us in terms of your guidance for next year I'm assuming it's not changed from your previous guidance.
But more importantly what type of assumptions do you have in there for peanut costs? And are we -- like this quarter I'm assuming we didn't see a benefit to their margins from peanut costs.
Can you just help me with that? I can't do much for you at this point with 2014 yet I mean we just really on a company-wide basis have not gotten into laying down our business plan and therefore be able -- being able to compare gee how does that look versus the 2014 guidance we provided when the acquisition was announced.
I don't know of any material problem related to that range but I just -- we have not updated it.
In terms of what's going on this year those peanut costs have been favorable.
There was an element of that that was positive to the business during the second quarter but obviously we had a lot of one-time charges in there as well that mitigated that.
But during the second half of the year that will be beneficial to both the Grocery Products and international franchises.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And just one for Jody a couple for Jody.
Just on Skippy itself your guidance for D&amp;A how much of that in '13 is just related to deal-related amortization? And so what should we expect on a full-year basis on deal-related amortization for Skippy? We took the range up I think this quarter and that would include any amortization related to Skippy amortizable intangibles and any additional depreciation.
We have not finalized our purchase accounting so there may be some adjustment in there but I feel pretty comfortable with that range I gave you.
Research Division</strong> But the  -- is it fair to assume that the change is related to the acquisition or not necessarily? Some of the change -- the majority of the change is related to the acquisition.
There's some other minor things but that would be.
Our next follow-up question is from Diane Geissler from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just a further question on the SPLENDA.
In terms of Diamond Crystal is SPLENDA the biggest component of Diamond Crystal? I know you have other condiment businesses et cetera in there but if you could answer that question.
And the other thing is what exactly happened with the contract? Was it just that you were so successful the owner of the property wanted to keep it? Was it a failure to come to an agreement on the split in terms of the economics? If you could give us some color on why it was a surprise and what exactly happened.
Sure.
I can't quantify precisely for you in terms of the segment impact other than to tell you obviously it was significant enough in the total volume of Diamond Crystal that it prompted us to make a very tough decision in terms of the production facility and obviously significant enough in terms of profit delivery that we're going to go from a year that's been very solid for Specialty Foods to a second half that's going to be more troublesome.
In terms of what happened I mean it's a franchise that we've been involved with now for a number of years.
The owner of the brand had the right to bring it back in-house upon an expiration of a contract.
We had been in discussions with them with hopes to extend that contract and ultimately the decision was made that they wanted to bring it back in-house and go their own route.
And so we will now look for other opportunities.
That will be one of the things we outline in Investor Day here in June.
Well Don Kremin who runs that area will be one of the presenters and he will be able to outline for you kind of okay well what does Diamond Crystal look like and what kind of things there will they be pursuing now that this contract arrangement is no longer in place.
Our next follow-up question is from Eric Larson from CL King.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick question on your guidance.
What is -- I just want to find out what is in your guidance and what isn't? Your $9 million or $0.02 per charge for Skippy integration and those costs are in your guidance I believe.
Is any severance costs for the shutdown of your plant with Diamond Crystal is -- are those costs included in your guidance as well or will that be a separately-disclosed item? Eric everything's baked into the guidance range so we've included the non-recurring costs related to the acquisition of Skippy as well as any charges for shutdown of a plant and severance including the lost business related to SPLENDA so everything's in.
Thank you.
There appear to be no further questions.
Please continue with any other points you wish to raise.
Thank you everyone for participating in our conference call this morning.
Please feel free to follow-up with me with any additional questions you may have and we thank you for your time.
Have a great day.
Bye-bye.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Hormel Foods Corporation Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Hormel Foods Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded today August 22 2013.
I will now turn the conference over to Kevin Jones Director Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Hormel Foods conference call for the third quarter of fiscal 2013.
We released our results this morning before the market opened around 6:30 a.m.
Eastern Time.
If you did not receive a copy of the release you can find it on our website at www.hormelfoods.com under the Investors section.
On our call today is Jeff Ettinger Chairman of the Board President and Chief Executive Officer; and Jody Feragen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jeff will provide a review of the operating results for the quarter then Jody will provide detailed financial results for the quarter.
The line will be open for questions following Jody's remarks.
[Operator Instructions] An audio replay of this call will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m.
Central Time today August 22 2013.
The dial-in number is (800) 406-7325 and the access code is 4632577.
It will also be posted to our website and archived for 1 year.
Before we get started with the results of the quarter I need to reference the Safe Harbor statement.
Some of the comments made today will be forward-looking and are made under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the statements we will be making.
Among the factors that may affect the operating results of the company are fluctuations in the costs and availability of raw materials and market conditions for finished products.
Please refer to the cautionary statement and risk factors on Pages 31 through 38 in the company’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 28 2013 which was filed with the SEC on June 7 2013 for more details.
It can be accessed on our website.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Kevin and good morning everyone.
We announced third quarter earnings this morning of $0.42 per share up 2% from last year.
Segment operating profit increased by 5% with 4 of our 5 segments registering gains this quarter.
Q3 sales were $2.2 billion an increase of 8% over a year ago on volume growth of 3%.
All 5 segments generated sales increases over last year.
I will now take you through each segment.
Our Grocery Products segment reported an operating profit increase of 32% and a dollar sales increase of 25% for the third quarter.
Excluding sales of Skippy peanut butter sales for Grocery Products were flat for the quarter.
We were very pleased with the smooth integration of the domestic Skippy franchise into our Grocery Products organization.
Skippy peanut butter sales were strong this quarter driven by improved distribution.
Sales of Dinty Moore Stew Hormel Mary Kitchen hash and Hormel bacon toppings also grew nicely during the quarter.
Sales of our SPAM family of products and Compleats microwave meals were down in the quarter.
Segment operating profit for our Refrigerated Foods segment decreased by 26% as spiking core input costs squeezed operating margins.
Refrigerated Foods sales were up 2%.
On the retail side we enjoyed strong sales of Hormel party trays Hormel Natural Choice deli meats and Hormel Cure 81 hams.
We're excited about our new Hormel REV Snack Wraps.
The Rev products were rolled out nationally during the quarter and a new advertising campaign began in late July.
This product meets the needs for a quick high-protein snack that can be eaten on-the-go.
Our Foodservice team continues to outpace the industry with higher sales in the quarter led by sales of branded products such as HORMEL PECANWOOD bacon HORMEL FIRE BRAISED Meats and Hormel Natural Choice deli meats.
Our Jennie-O Turkey Store segment had a solid quarter with segment operating profit up 17% and sales up 4%.
Continued growth in sales of value-added products and an improved product mix offset higher grain prices and lower commodity meat prices during the quarter.
Jennie-O Turkey Store foodservice and deli value-added products delivered sales gains in the quarter.
Retail sales of our Jennie-O Turkey Store bacon and ground turkey chubs also enjoyed solid growth in the quarter.
Our Specialty Foods segment reported an 8% gain in operating profit on a net sales increase of 5%.
This segment profit increase was driven by strong sales of sweeteners nutritional products ready-to-drink beverages and ingredients.
The agreement allowing Diamond Crystal Brands to sell SPLENDA sweetener into the foodservice trade channel ended up being extended 1 month and ultimately expired on July 31 2013.
Our International &amp; Other segment delivered another strong quarter with operating profit up 34% on a sales increase of 31%.
Higher exports of our SPAM family of products and fresh pork improved performance by our China operations and the addition of the Skippy business all contributed to the nice results.
We remain excited about the growth prospects that Skippy brand brings to our International group both in China and in other parts of the globe.
We anticipate completing the acquisition of the China sales and the Weifang operations by the end of the fiscal year.
We believe we are positioned to bring a strong finish to fiscal 2013.
Our Refrigerated Foods value-added products should experience improved margins driven by a decline in pork input costs along with the benefit of earlier pricing actions.
Our Grocery Products segment has plans in place to help drive sales growth of their traditional microwave and Mexican food products.
And we also have solid momentum with the sales of Skippy peanut butter that is expected to continue in the fourth quarter.
Our Jennie-O Turkey Store segment began turning the corner in the third quarter and should maintain their momentum in the fourth quarter.
Specialty Foods will likely have a down quarter in light of the discontinuation of the SPLENDA contract but the team is working hard to minimize the decline.
Our International &amp; Other segment has delivered outstanding results through the first 3 quarters of 2013 and we expect similar performance in the fourth quarter.
Taking all of these significant factors into account we are maintaining our adjusted fiscal 2013 guidance range of $1.88 to $1.96 per share.
The strength of our balanced business model should allow us to achieve another growth year as we close out fiscal 2013.
At this time I will turn the call over to Jody Feragen to discuss the financial information relating to the third quarter.
Thank you Jeff.
Good morning.
For the third quarter of fiscal 2013 net earnings totaled $113.6 million or $0.42 per share compared to $111.2 million or $0.41 per share a year ago.
Net earnings for the first 9 months of fiscal 2013 totaled $368.9 million or $1.37 compared to net earnings of $367.4 million also $1.37 per share a year ago.
Dollar sales for the third quarter totaled $2.2 billion compared to $2.0 billion last year an 8% increase.
For the 9 months of fiscal 2013 dollar sales improved 6% to $6.4 billion.
Volume for the third quarter was 1.2 billion pounds a 3% increase over fiscal 2012.
Year-to-date volume was 3.7 billion pounds also up 3% compared to last year.
Selling general and administrative expenses in the third quarter were 7% of sales compared to 7.2% last year.
Year-to-date selling general and administrative expenses were 7.5% compared to 7.4% last year.
We expect selling general and administrative expenses to be approximately 7.5% of sales for the full year.
Equity and earnings of affiliates for the third quarter was $1.3 million versus $9.8 million last year.
The decrease is due to lower earnings at our MegaMex Foods joint venture which experienced a higher earn-out expense on the Fresherized Food acquisition unfavorable exchange rates and higher input costs.
Interest expense for the quarter was $3.1 million compared to $3.2 million last year.
Year-to-date interest expense is $9.4 million compared to $9.7 million last year.
We expect interest expense to be approximately $12 million to $14 million for fiscal 2013.
Our effective tax rate in the third quarter was 35.7% versus 33.7% for the same period in fiscal 2012.
Year-to-date our effective tax rate was 33.5% unchanged from last year.
We expect the effective tax rate to be about 34% for the full year of fiscal 2013.
The basic weighted average number of shares outstanding for the third quarter was 265 million.
The diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding for the third quarter was 271 million.
We repurchased 953 000 shares of common stock during the third quarter spending about $38 million.
We have 10 million shares remaining to be purchased from the current authorization in place.
Depreciation and amortization for the quarter was $31.8 million up from $28.9 million last year.
For the 9 months of the year depreciation and amortization was $93 million compared to $88.6 million last year.
We expect depreciation and amortization to be approximately $120 million to $125 million for fiscal 2013.
Long-term debt at the end of the quarter was $250 million unchanged from last year.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $23 million compared to $36 million last year.
For the first 9 months of the year capital expenditures totaled $69 million compared to $94 million last year.
For fiscal 2013 we expect capital expenditures to be approximately $110 million to $120 million.
At this time I will turn the call over to the operator for the question-and-answer portion of the call.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And your first question will come from the line of Akshay Jagdale from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> First question on Refrigerated Foods.
Can you just give us a little bit more insight into the weakness? I mean this quarter tends to be historically one where you can have some of your lower margins but the cutout itself wasn't as weak as your results would imply.
I think you mentioned something about bacon.
Can you just help us with what part -- components of maybe your cost basket went up so that we can keep track of it going forward and be aware of what happens? So just trying to understand what happened because it definitely surprised us and it seems to be unique relative to some of your peers.
Okay Akshay.
I mean the weakness for Refrigerated Foods was clearly the most pronounced in the earlier part of the quarter ending up prompting us to come out with our guidance adjustment that occurred mid-quarter.
At that stage we were seeing some continued weakness in processing margins but the bigger culprit had been the spike in some of the raw material costs particularly bellies for bacon and trim costs for a number of our products pepperoni and other items within the portfolio.
As the quarter went on the team had an opportunity to particularly on the bacon side price against with the new reality of what the cost situation is.
Belly costs are still at historically very high levels but they have moderated some from the peak.
And we expect now as we kind of head out of the summer season they should start to return to more normalized levels.
Overall for Refrigerated I mean those are the big challenges.
I mean it wasn't all bad for the quarter in terms of their -- what we look at for their business performance.
Our large Foodservice group for Hormel is part of Refrigerated Foods and they really had a very fine quarter growing sales at a solid rate and really doing a nice job introducing some other newer products their FIRE BRAISED meats and their PECANWOOD.
This half also does represent somewhat of an investment time for us with the REV brand.
We're very pleased with where we're at with that brand.
We've achieved the distribution goals that we had set for the team.
We have the ad campaign kicking in.
Our early sales results are very promising.
But anytime you roll out something new on that scale I mean we're not going to be bringing bottom line contributions for that brand to the team this year and probably even into next year somewhat but we're heading in a good direction with that.
Research Division</strong> Just on that point Jeff can you help us understand sort of where you are with the REV like ACV number of SKUs anything you can give us? And how do we parse out that positive from their results if the volumes are obviously down so it's hard to tell what impact REV has had even on the revenue side? So maybe you can help us because our channel checks also tell us some -- that the launch at least initially has been pretty encouraging.
So maybe you can just give us a little bit of a sense of one how it's doing and maybe -- and just talk about the impact it's having already.
Okay.
In terms of ACV we're really in a solid shape with that.
We're in the 70% to 80% of the U.S.
that has accepted the item and most of those stores are actively scanning it.
Sometimes you'll get an acceptance from a retailer but in terms of their shelf reset time frame they just have certain windows.
They get those things done.
So we're still catching up on a few retailers but we're in a good position to support our ad campaign.
In terms of the number of SKUs there are 8 offered in the line.
Most retailers are taking kind of 6 to all 8 in that range.
We'll be coming out with 4 additional items later this fall and heading into the winter.
And in terms of just the sense of scale I mean we're not -- we probably won't get into reporting item-by-item sales.
But just to give you a sense of magnitude for the quarter it was in the $4 million to $5 million range.
So I mean it's still building.
Clearly our long-term expectations for the product would be -- are quite solid but that's about the size of it right now.
I guess Akshay I would like to follow up on the volume comment you made about Refrigerated and their volumes is really being impacted by discontinuing the feed business that we talked about last quarter.
So that's not all just retail and foodservice volume that's impacting the decline there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one on Skippy.
Are the lower peanut costs already flowing through your P&amp;L or is that still not flowing through? And how are you managing sort of that lower costs that might be flowing through relative to your investments because it's still pretty early in the stage of owning that asset and I just want to know like where you are in terms of your planning on investing behind that brand and perhaps how that's going initially.
Okay.
I mean a decent amount of the lower costs would be flowing through right now.
And now it looks -- seems favorable in terms of what we're seeing for peanut crops going forward.
In terms of investing in the brand I think I talked about that at the last quarterly call and I think we talked about it a little bit in the Investor Day that when we bought the brand it was with the thought in mind of really kind of rejuvenating it with the Skippy consumer in the marketplace.
And so one of our approach is to potentially do that in the marketplace would be to anticipate an advertising campaign.
The earliest that would occur is next fiscal year and so we'll kind of let you know probably on the next call the November call what our outlook is in terms of advertising support.
But we're -- the team is actively looking at both possibilities right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Farha Aslam from Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> First of all just a continuation of Akshay's questions regarding Refrigerated Foods.
Looking out into the fourth quarter we've recently seen hog prices rally a bit.
So when you look at that is that a net positive for your Refrigerated Food business because you do raise 15% of your hogs internally.
And can you price for the hog price increase better into the fourth quarter versus the third quarter.
How should we think about that? I'll take that Farha.
I would generally say that we would prefer lower hog prices and we would expect hog prices in the fourth quarter to be lower than they were in the third quarter.
Still probably year-over-year an increase.
The live production side doesn't really play that much into it since we take those values into our further process businesses at market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then going into International I mean that turnaround in that International business is pretty pretty material.
Do you expect that China will continue to perform? And your thoughts on that other business which is becoming pretty meaningful in your P&amp;L.
Farha I'm really quite encouraged by International.
And not only as we mentioned has it had all 3 solid quarters this year but this will be the third consecutive year of really solid both top line and bottom line growth for International.
I think our strategy of focusing on the Asia base market has proven out well and so we have good solid business performance in Korea and Japan our partnership with San Miguel in the Philippines and then the more majority-owned China ventures.
China in particular we do feel we've now gotten to the point where we have sufficient scale in that business that now it can generate a solid profit.
And we're look -- the team out there is looking forward to bringing Skippy on board so that will be our third plant facility we'll be running in China.
And we'll kick that business well over $100 million once the Skippy contribution is in there which we expect to occur in the next fiscal year.
So overall International I would agree with your assessment that it's become a more and more meaningful component of our overall performance and it's one that I think we've articulated in the past we have solid expectations that it will grow at a faster rate than our overall company average.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Ramey from Davidson.
Research Division</strong> I just was wondering about the supply of hogs.
As we think about the fall this PED virus that used to be impacting hog supplies.
Is that showing up in any particular way in your geographies more or less than we are seeing from nationwide impact? Some folks are thinking it will impact the supply 2% to 3%.
Tim this is Jody.
We're really not seeing any impact on the supply here in the Midwest.
Actually looking at seasonally high numbers for this last quarter for us so maybe it's not as impactful here.
Research Division</strong> That's good news.
And then I don't know whether you'll be willing to kind of think about further add in the fall but historically at least for the last 2 years you've run some pretty big margin numbers in Jennie-O Turkey Stores.
Is there any reason to think that that seasonal pattern should change or steady as she goes? Yes without giving a percentage target I mean our expectations for Jennie-O's performance is that this year's fourth quarter will have better segment profit results than last year's fourth quarter.
So I mean that should support what you're saying.
Research Division</strong> Terrific.
And I know you're not going to give first quarter guidance but that's been kind of a big quarter.
No reason to think that that would change relative to seasonal patterns for the last couple of years? We're really not in a position to do anything earlier than 2014 yet.
But in terms of just sales momentum I mean the value-added items that Jennie-O has created both the new or innovative items and some other traditional items are connecting well in the marketplace.
And we don't have any reason to believe that that won't continue heading into next year.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zaslow of BMO Capital Markets.
Two questions.
One is if you hold your current margins -- current situation or current environment steady how much would your margins move up in the Refrigerated Foods with the new product innovation? Well I mean that's 1 contributor certainly.
We -- as we innovate the team's goal is always to have margins that are accretive to the overall division.
And certainly the targets we have in place for the REVs and the other items that they've been introducing do meet those requirements.
The Refrigerated Foods has really a significant opportunity frankly just to get back towards some of the performance levels that we enjoyed a couple of years ago.
I mean we had 2 consecutive years of around 7% net and these last couple of years have been more like 5% with this most recent quarter even dipping below that with the struggle we had in periods '07 and '08.
So we think there are some things on top of the innovation as we head into a different environment that will be favorable for Refrigerated Foods.
What about just innovation? Would it add 100 basis points? If you just kept everything stable how do you think about that because you have a lot of new products coming out so I just was trying to figure out if it's the REVs and all the new products.
Is it 100 200 basis points of just contribution just from the new products? Or how do you think about that? Separating the environment out from what you guys can actually do yourselves.
I'd be really speculating.
Clearly I haven't looked at it from that standpoint.
I mean I look at it from the standpoint that clearly the -- whether it's the Foodservice group the meat products group et cetera within Refrigerated Foods or even some of their subsidiary organizations like Farmer John or Burke I mean our expectation is that they grow their top line commensurate with our 5% target.
And to the extent that they -- the innovative items are contributors to that that those should be better for margins than the traditional items.
But I guess I don't have it reduced back to the algorithm you're looking for.
And my follow-up question is on turkey is how bound are you to your turkey margins at the high end of 15% because it seems like the commodity meat business is probably at the bottom.
You're seeing 10% cuts.
And then obviously the corn curve should be -- and soybean meal for that matter should all be encouraging.
So is 15% a real boundary? Or does it just kind of -- that was just a comfortable number to start with and we'll see where they actually go from here.
Yes that number really -- I mean I think what we did historically in the old days if you will we were looking at Jennie-O and sort of the 8% to 10% 7% to 11% range.
We reassessed it based on both the improvements they've made to the branded portfolio and a lot of the efficiency gains that they've made in the total system and came out with the new kind of longer-term guidance range of 11% to 15%.
But no that's not necessarily viewed as a ceiling.
We'll certainly give a little more specificity related to what our expectations are for Jennie-O when we get to the November call but it's not -- I wouldn't take that as the absolute max.
And your next question comes from the line of Diane Geissler from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you just first off have you quantified what your expectations are for increased grain prices in fiscal '13 and JOTS just on a year-over-year basis in absolute terms? No we really haven't given a specific number related to that.
I mean obviously you've got timing you've got hedge positions that will effect that.
We've kind of indicated each quarter thus far this year clearly that total feed costs of the system for Jennie-O has been up every quarter year-over-year.
We're starting to get into the mode.
We're all still waiting to see where this crop ends up.
I mean if you look at -- based on futures market if that turns out to be the reality then clearly we should start heading downward in terms of what the feed cost impact would be to Jennie-O.
But even then there'll be some delay to that effect.
Research Division</strong> Well I guess my point is that you guys have had a pretty good year in operating profits in Jennie-O despite the fact that grain has just been really out of control.
And I'm just -- know you're not in a position to talk about '14 yet but obviously I have to think about it.
And so I'm just trying to understand the magnitude of that.
Maybe you can help me with this because I know that -- it seems to me that the holiday turkey business has pretty consistently been a big business in the fourth quarter and I think there's a little carryover into the first quarter.
And so anything that's marketed now would have old grain prices in it in terms of the cost basket is that not correct? That is correct.
Research Division</strong> And then could you just tell me as a percentage of sales roughly how big that business is today? Because you've done so much work on the value-added side I'm assuming that's a smaller and smaller percentage of your total sales.
Is that...? Right.
It's not a huge percentage of the sales and it's certainly not a huge percentage of the earnings.
I mean the whole bird business has never been a big moneymaker for either the manufacturer or the retailer.
There is an impact to the first quarter of any year for Jennie-O related to whole birds.
Frankly there's probably a bigger impact of the fact that franchises such as our Fresh Lean Ground Turkey franchise often will have -- kind of leap out of the gate in January kind of people with New Year's resolutions and so forth.
And that's a peak time of the year for that very solid product line for us.
In terms of trying to get back to -- you mentioned about kind of grain impact I mean we're pleased with where Jennie-O is for the year.
But I mean it is true that for both the first 2 quarters I think their year-over-year adjustment was around $18 million down each quarter.
And that was part trying to catch up to the grains and that was part that the commodity turkey markets were not as favorable.
To one of the earlier questions I mean at the moment those both look -- the outlooks for both of those things look more favorable right now heading into next year.
But that's something we'll be in a better position to quantify when we provide earnings guidance in November.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I wanted to ask on your commentary on the lower contribution from the affiliates for MegaMex.
You cited 3 things.
I think it was higher payout for the Fresherized Foods currency and then higher input costs.
I'm assuming you detailed those in the order of impact.
And if so is that payout for Fresherized Foods I'm assuming it's kind of one and done in the quarter and you're completely free of the terms of that agreement is that correct? Diane this is Jody.
The Fresherized earn-out goes for 3 years so it ends in fiscal 2014.
And the way we handle it from an accounting perspective is we evaluate their performance against their earn-out criteria and make adjustments on a quarterly basis.
The great news is that the Wholly Guacamole brands have really outperformed.
So we have this short term impact to that business because of recording the expected payout that will be made in 2014.
So...
Research Division</strong> So we'll look forward in the third -- sorry.
I'm sorry talking over here.
We'll see an impact in the fourth quarter too.
Hopefully they'll have other parts of their business that are able to overcome it but this quarter was a little bit of a catch-up.
Research Division</strong> So are you accruing today for a payment in '14? And then once '14 rolls around you're done or do you have to accrue again in '14? There'll be some accrual in '14 but it won't be -- well depending on how the business performs we'll see where it goes.
But I would expect it to be somewhat less than 2013.
This quarter ended up being a bit of a catch-up.
Research Division</strong> It was a catch-up? Okay.
Totally done by the end of '14.
Totally done in 2014.
And then they also.
.
.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Moscow from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to dial in a little deeper into the expectations for fourth quarter because if you do the math here it looks like operating profit needs to grow like about 15% to hit your guidance.
And then when you look at consensus Jeff for fiscal '14 I know you don't want to get into guidance but it is -- the expectations are for a very strong year.
And as you go down the list of all the other food companies that have reported they are talking about weaker volumes at retail again a weak consumer environment.
So maybe just dial in a little bit more about what the drivers for fourth quarter are going to be even if the consumer environment is rather weak.
And then maybe you could just touch a little bit on fiscal '14 because I think it's rare that consensus has such a high bar already set for you.
And then in the context of a weak consumer environment is it achievable? Well first of all in terms of -- our best read on consumers are our own products I guess.
And throughout the more challenging economic times of the past few years that's been somewhat mixed.
I mean obviously in the aggregate we have enough products that are connecting with enough groups of consumers that we've been able to drive our business forward both on a top line and bottom line basis.
That's our current picture as well.
There were elements of the business in terms of retail sales that were a little bit softer this quarter.
But I don't put a lot of stock frankly on one quarter.
I mean I just see things go up and down kind of quarter-to-quarter in the past on certain businesses.
Overall I think the portfolio of items that we have that we offer for sale into the retail channel whether through Jennie-O or Grocery Products or Refrigerated Foods are in a good position to be able to continue to generate growth both in the fourth quarter and beyond.
And then on top of that obviously we have Foodservice and other commercial-type sales that also are contributing to our overall results.
So overall I mean the way we see making the numbers for Q4 is kind of as we've outlined from a segment standpoint that we would expect somewhat of a dip from Specialty albeit Specialty is one of the smaller units in terms of total contribution to the company.
And so our expectation right now is that all 4 of the other units are in a position to have good solid quarters.
And that then adds up to our ability to support the grains we've provided here a couple of months ago for the full year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the follow-up on Refrigerated just for fourth quarter.
Again the drivers here are -- you've taken the pricing that you need to take especially in bacon.
And do you -- are you saying that you think the input costs might trend sequentially lower in the quarter and that might provide a bit of a benefit because there has to be a big sequential benefit in order to hit the guidance.
Yes that definitely is a part of it.
I mean we're seeing it somewhat already on bellies.
We've seen it much -- on a more pronounced basis in pork trim and that's the key input for some of the items.
So that definitely should be a part of it.
Your next question comes from the line of Akshay Jagdale from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 follow-ups one on REV.
It was very useful to get a sense of how big it is now.
But Jeff can you just give us a sense of sort of the optimism about this product? I mean could it be like a Compleats type of product where it went from 0 to a couple hundred million in a short period of time? And what kind of expectations do you have for this product? It seems pretty unique because it's in the lunchable aisle and it's really a differentiated product that took probably years to develop.
So can you just help us like frame what would be sort of the best case scenario for this and perhaps over what period? Okay.
Well I think we've talked about it in the past.
Our innovation track record and even in achieving our $2 billion challenge has been achieved mostly through kind of a lot of incremental gains.
Some of our are better new product franchises have been even in the $50 million to $100 million range although you cited Compleats correctly as being higher than that.
Given the kind of advertising we're putting against this given the capital investment we made I think it's certainly fair that we at least expect this item to be in that type of range.
But I would not at all put that as the ceiling.
We'll just have to see what consumers reactions are to the items.
We think over time if assuming the initial REV Wraps connect as well with consumers as we think they can that this can be a platform for other types of products that are more oriented toward a younger audience toward on-the-go immediate consumption-type items.
And so we could have a very significant franchise in this.
But I really don't have a number for you that's beyond kind of that number I just gave you in terms of what historically has been a bigger product for us.
Research Division</strong> No that's very helpful.
Just -- I get this question a lot so I'm posting it to you.
I mean I feel like your company every year keeps moving away from commodity products if I may and more towards value-added.
Can you help us sort of understand from your perspective like what percentage of your sales or earnings what you would call commoditized today? And how much is that really changed over the last few years? The reason I asked that today is because you obviously pre-released a lot bit about and lowered the bar because of the commodity piece of your business so at least relatively commoditized piece.
And kind of surprised me the magnitude of that sensitivity there.
So can you just help us? And again not trying to get into like numbers exactly but just give us a sense of how you think about that dynamic.
Well we're clearly over time -- I would agree with your assessment that we're trying to create a portfolio that is less vulnerable to certain commodity movements.
And so we still do have a hog supply chain.
We still do have a turkey supply chain.
Frankly even if you get to the point where you sell next to nothing of the meat on a commodity basis you still could have some cost-related inputs that can fluctuate fairly significantly.
But in doing that I mean between portfolio diversification buying into a category like peanut butter that has a different raw material like guacamole like salsa we think those things have helped us.
And then the more you develop products that are not frankly just a piece of meat but are a meal that have other components that are a REV Wrap et cetera again your vulnerability to any one commodity moving on you becomes less.
So I do think we have over time improved the portfolio in terms of its vulnerability to these kinds of things.
But as you correctly point out I mean it's still out there.
Bacon would be a good example.
I mean if you're in -- if you process hogs you have bellies off the hogs.
Bacon is actually a very on-trend popular item with consumers.
By and large if you're just talking about kind of a pound of raw bacon that's never a high-margin big moneymaker for the manufacturer.
I mean there's a lot of competition within that category.
That 1 pound of bacon is not particularly differentiated.
So quarters like this last quarter I mean it hurt us that the belly cost spiked as much as they did and it took us more time to catch up to those.
But that's never an area that in the long run we're looking to drive results.
Now flavored bacon flavors like PECANWOOD or Applewood or precooked bacons or bacons for a particular foodservice application than that could be a contributor to the kind of higher margins we're looking for.
So in terms of that percentage I mean I think we've said before when you look at both the pork and turkey supply chains we're probably in the 75% to 80% of the volume goes out in a value-added form.
You're always going to have a little bit of a mismatch with some of the -- what comes off the animals in terms of what the American consumers are looking for.
But the goal beyond just -- is it in any kind of value-added form is just keep moving up the value-add or keep finding more innovative ways to direct it to consumers.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And just one follow-up for me.
So why is Jennie-O Turkey much more stable than let's say a pork portfolio if the percentage from value-added is similar in both cases? Can you -- I mean it just seems like it's more value-added and it's more differentiated in turkey.
But is that -- can you put a thing on so why your turkey business just continues to march up in margins and on the pork side every now and then we tend to get these negative surprises.
Well I mean Jennie-O Turkey Store I mean whole birds would be one example.
It's certainly a category that's sort of supply chain-based category.
We mentioned earlier they're a little bit lower margin.
But otherwise if you look at turkey products kind of sold in the U.S.
it tends to be more of a specialized niche one that the team up there has done a really nice job of developing the right products and being the only one out there advertising these products to the consumer.
And so I think that has provided them with some insulation versus say a pork supply chain in terms of their ability to deliver more consistent results.
Your next question comes from the line of Diane Geissler from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I forgot to ask on the Foodservice.
Your group saw pretty good growth in environment.
I think if you listened to the restaurant companies when they reported their second quarters I mean the traffic trends have been pretty bad at both casual and QSRs.
So congratulations for outperforming that.
But I guess question is really what are you hearing from your customers? What are their expectations for the second half of the year? Do you think that there are -- there's some pent-up demand on the customer side because really the restaurant guys have struggled here over the last year and so we should expect to see improvements there and maybe improvements for Hormel? Or what are you hearing from consumers about where they're shopping retail versus dining out? Okay.
I mean on the QSR side at least on a domestic basis we tend to be less of a player with QSRs.
Part of that is maybe by design in terms of we just kind of found our model of creating unique items that are designed for giving operators less what a really large chain is looking for.
But it's in part I think also -- I mean there's been a little change in this.
But by and large the fast-food channel is sort of chicken and beef focused and we're a turkey and pork supply chain business.
I think our leader of the group articulated in Investor Day their strategy to also really work on the noncommercial side of the Foodservice business and so they've had some very nice success in the college and university environment in the health care world and so forth.
So they're seeing better growth through that segment than what the overall industry is experiencing.
That being said I mean we are -- I think the sort of secular comments we're hearing is a little bit of optimism coming out of them for the upcoming quarter for this segment as a whole and our group feels it's well positioned to continue to have really solid quarter in Q4.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Moskow from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Really just more of a comment.
Wanted to thank...
[Technical Difficulty] He disconnected I guess.
We'll have to go on to Jonathan Feeney.
Research Division</strong> Unworthy substitute I must admit.
I wanted to dig in a little bit more on Turkey Store business.
As Akshay said it just seems to hang in there and seems to be so much -- I mean is it just dramatically less of a commodity business right now because of the branding and value-added you've done? And specifically how much has the mix of business changed from 5 years ago versus from what you consider near to that the whole bird business commodity mix back then? So just 5 years ago versus where that is today.
If you could give me sort of a ballpark estimate for thinking about that? Then I have one follow-up.
True.
Yes I mean clearly the predominant results driver for Jennie-O Turkey Store are their value-added branded products that they sell at the retail deli and foodservice.
The mix has -- I don't have the stats for you.
Maybe Kevin can follow up with you on that.
But clearly it has changed over the 5-year time frame.
Not only have we changed by virtue of those items but I think if I'm remembering correctly I think there's been 2 occasions over those 5 years that we've actually tightened our basic processing within the turkey business to make sure that we're staying fully in balance and that we're just supporting the value-added items and not throwing off a lot of additional commodity meat.
So that's improved the percentage as well.
And then on top of just sheer -- not having as many numbers I mean the team's done a nice job at driving other efficiency gains that have led to those results.
Research Division</strong> It doesn't sound like it's dramatically different.
It just sounds like of the value-added business then you've just gotten -- been more effective at it.
Is that a fair characterization? Yes and the advertising has helped.
This year is a little bit less significant campaign but the last 2 years prior to this we've -- $20 million-plus each year in terms of trying to drive business with really nice results.
The past campaigns have featured burgers and turkey bacon and both of those over the long time frame are way up.
I mean well into the double-digit increases.
Research Division</strong> And my follow-up question Jeff is a while back you used to have this great -- like 10 years ago in your presentation you used to have this great pyramid where the top of the ladder you had high value-added items and you sort of -- the idea was to push people off that pyramid in terms of margin structure.
Across the Refrigerated Foods and turkey business I mean could you differentiate -- have those margins at the top of the ladder just gotten bigger in the value-added space and that's why? Or you've done better across-the-board? Or is the mix of business in both Refrigerated and turkey just so much less in that commodity piece than it say was 5 or even 10 years ago that you're sustaining these higher margins? I think the biggest impact would be the moving -- if you do that pyramid as having different floors if you will we've moved more items up more floor levels.
I mean the percentage of portfolio that's a higher level of value-add that has the higher differentiation and therefore more defensible margin position is greater in both the Refrigerated Foods group and in the Jennie-O group.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Moskow from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is actually a question for Kevin Jones.
Kevin is this your last conference call? It is.
Research Division</strong> Kevin I want to thank you for many years of assistance.
You've been a great investor relations contact for us and thank you so much.
Best of luck in retirement.
Thank you very much.
[Operator Instructions] And there are no further questions at this time.
Okay.
Thank you very much everyone for your participation.
We appreciate it.
Feel free to get back in touch with me and Jenna [ph] after the call for any follow-up questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the conference call for today.
Thank you for participating.
Please disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Hormel Foods Corporation fourth quarter earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is also being recorded today Tuesday November 26 2013.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Jana Haynes.
Go ahead please.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Hormel Foods conference call for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013.
We released our results this morning before the market opened.
If you did not receive a copy of the release you can find it on our website at www.hormelfoods.com under the Investors section.
On our call today is Jeff Ettinger Chairman of the Board President and Chief Executive Officer; and Jody Feragen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jeff will provide a review of the operating results for the quarter and the year along with our guidance for fiscal 2014 then Jody will provide detailed financial results for the quarter and the year.
The line will be open for questions following Jody's remarks.
[Operator Instructions] An audio replay of this call will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m.
Central Time today November 26 2013.
The dial-in number is (800) 406-7325 and the access code is 4649315.
It will also be posted to our website and archived for 1 year.
Before we get started with the results of the quarter I need to reference the Safe Harbor statement.
Some of the comments made today will be forward-looking and are made under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the statements we will be making.
Among the factors that may affect the operating results of the company are fluctuations in the costs and availability of raw materials and market conditions for finished products.
Please refer to Pages 33 through 39 in the company's 10-Q for the quarter ended July 28 2013 filed on September 6 2013 for more details.
It can be accessed on our website.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Jana and good morning everyone.
We are pleased to report a strong finish to fiscal 2013.
Earnings per share in the fourth quarter were $0.58 up 18% from a year ago on sales of $2.3 billion a 7% increase over last year.
We generated segment profit and sales growth in 4 out of our 5 segments.
For the full year the company earned a record $1.95 per share representing a 5% increase.
We provided adjusted earnings guidance in June where we said we would earn between $1.88 and $1.96 per share for the year and I am pleased to report we finished at the upper end of that range.
Sales were $8.8 billion an increase of 6%.
I will now take you through each segment.
Our Grocery Products group contributed significantly to our Q4 results with segment profit up 17% and sales up 23%.
Sales for Grocery Products in the quarter grew 1% excluding Skippy products.
For the year segment profit was up 18% and sales were up 30%.
Excluding sales of Skippy peanut butter and Don Miguel products sales were up 2% for the year.
Sales of our Hormel Compleats microwave meals grew nicely during the quarter enhanced by the introduction of our new Compleats breakfast meal items.
We were also pleased with Skippy peanut butter sales this quarter.
Our direct sales force has done a nice job generating distribution gains of Skippy peanut butter products domestically.
In our MegaMex foods business sales gains were led by HERDEZ sauces tortillas and snacks.
Our Refrigerated Foods Q4 operating profit increased 30% with sales up 4%.
For the full year operating profit in this segment was up 2% and sales increased 1%.
We enjoyed solid sales of Hormel Pepperoni Hormel Natural Choice lunchmeat and LLOYD'S Ribs in the retail channel.
Our Hormel REV Snack Wraps are enjoying broad consumer acceptance driven in part by a national advertising campaign started in late July.
We are also excited about the recent reformulation and packaging updates of our Hormel Country Crock Side Dishes introduced just in time for the holiday season.
Our Foodservice group provided nice contributions with its value-added products led by sales of Hormel Natural Choice deli meats and HORMEL FIRE BRAISED Meats.
Hog costs were unseasonably high this quarter but pork operating margins were improved as compared to last year's challenging operating environment.
Retail bacon pricing actions taken last quarter helped drive improved Refrigerated Foods margins during the fourth quarter as well.
Our Jennie-O Turkey Store segment continues to build favorable momentum delivering increased segment profit of 25% on a sales increase of 7% during the quarter.
For the full year segment operating profit was down 7% and sales increased 3%.
Results at Jennie-O in the quarter were driven by continued growth in value-added sales along with performance gains and expense reductions in the live production supply chain.
These gains more than made up for year-over-year higher grain costs and lower commodity turkey meat prices.
Sales of Jennie-O Turkey Store retail fresh turkey chubs turkey breakfast sausage chubs and turkey bacon were robust while fresh Turkey tray pack sales were down during the quarter.
Our Specialty Foods segment reported an operating profit decrease of 34% and a sales decrease of 14% driven by the expiration of the agreement allowing Diamond Crystal Brands to sell certain sugar substitutes in the foodservice trade channels.
Full year results for Specialty Foods showed operating profit up 7% on 1% higher sales.
Our International &amp; Other segment capped off an excellent year by posting another noteworthy quarter with segment operating profit up 82% and sales up 38%.
Strong export sales of SPAM products along with the addition of the Skippy export business drove the positive results.
Our China operations also continue to augment segment sales growth.
For the full year segment operating profit was up 43% and sales were up 23% for our international team.
Earlier today we completed the acquisition of the Skippy peanut butter business in China and welcomed the Weifang China team to the Hormel Foods organization.
Our team in China is fully prepared to integrate this business into our current sales and distribution operations within China leveraging all available synergies in short order.
Moving into fiscal 2014 we intend to again grow both sales and earnings.
We expect our Grocery Products Refrigerated Foods Jennie-O Turkey Store and International &amp; Other segments to contribute to the earnings growth.
Our Specialty Foods segment will likely register an earnings decline as we rebuild after the expiration of the contract representing a significant portion of our sugar substitute business.
We do expect more favorable grain and turkey commodity costs heading into 2014 as well as more normalized pork operating margins.
We will also benefit from a full year of the Skippy peanut butter brand in the hands of our Grocery Products and International teams.
We plan to continue building the REV brand with advertising support in 2014.
We will also focus advertising dollars on our Jennie-O Turkey Store Make The Switch campaign and we intend to launch the first national advertising campaign in over 10 years to support the Skippy brand in the latter half of 2014.
Headwinds to our outlook for 2014 include high beef input costs and potentially volatile hog costs due to concerns in the marketplace about the PED virus affecting supply.
The impact of the virus on the industry overall remains to be seen.
We plan to maintain hog harvest levels flat to a year ago but we'll closely monitor hog prices as the year progresses.
Our balance model continues to smooth out volatility in our earnings stream as evidenced by our track record of increased earnings in 27 of the last 30 years.
We believe our strong brands in niche categories and our focus on innovation to deliver products valued by consumers put us in a position to deliver strong results for years to come.
After taking into account all of these significant factors we have established our fiscal 2014 earnings guidance range at $2.17 to $2.27 per share.
At this time I will turn the call over to Jody Feragen to discuss the financial information relating to the fourth quarter and fiscal 2013.
Thank you Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
Net earnings for the fiscal 2013 fourth quarter totaled $157.3 million or $0.58 per diluted share compared to $132.6 million or $0.49 per share a year ago.
Net earnings for the 12 months of fiscal 2013 totaled $526.2 million or $1.95 per share compared to net earnings of $500.1 million or $1.86 per share a year ago.
Dollar sales for the fourth quarter totaled $2.3 billion compared to $2.2 billion last year a 7% increase.
For the full year dollar sales were $8.8 billion a 6% increase from last year.
Volume for the fourth quarter was 1.3 billion pounds up 3% from fiscal 2012.
Year-to-date volume was 5 billion pounds up 3% over last year.
Selling general and administrative expenses in the fourth quarter were 6.3% of sales compared to 7.4% of sales last year.
Year-to-date selling general and administrative expenses were 7.2% of sales compared to 7.4% last year.
We expect selling general and administrative expenses to be between 7.3% and 7.6% of sales for fiscal 2014.
Equity and earnings of affiliates was $2.1 million in the fourth quarter versus $10 million last year.
The decrease is the result of lower earnings at our MegaMex foods joint venture which experienced higher incentive expense on the Fresherized Foods acquisition unfavorable exchange rates and higher input costs.
The incentive expense will be completed in 2014.
Interest and investment income was $2.5 million for the fourth quarter compared to $1.7 million last year.
Year-to-date interest and investment income was $5 million compared to $6.5 million a year ago.
Interest expense for the quarter was $3.1 million compared to $3.2 million last year.
Year-to-date interest expense was $12.5 million down from $12.9 million last year.
We expect interest expense to be about $12 million to $14 million for fiscal 2014.
Our effective tax rate in the fourth quarter was 33.9% versus 33.1% in fiscal 2012.
The year-to-date effective tax rate was 33.6% compared to 33.4% last year.
For fiscal 2014 we expect the effective tax rate for the full year to be between 34% and 35%.
The basic weighted average number of shares outstanding for the fourth quarter and full year were 263.9 million and 264.3 million shares respectively.
The diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding for both the fourth quarter and full year were 270.2 million shares.
We repurchased 592 000 shares of common stock during the fourth quarter spending $25.2 million.
For the full year we spent $70.8 million purchasing 1.7 million shares.
We have 9.4 million shares remaining to be purchased from the current authorization in place.
Total debt at the end of the quarter was $250 million even with last year.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $38 million even with last year.
For the full year capital expenditures totaled $107 million compared with $132 million last year.
For fiscal 2014 we expect capital expenditures to be approximately $140 million.
We announced a 12% per share increase to the annual dividend making the new dividend $0.80.
This represents an 18% increase over the 13% increase last year and marks the 48th consecutive year in which we have increased our dividend.
Depreciation and amortization for the quarter was $31.9 million compared to $30.9 million last year.
For the full year depreciation and amortization was $125 million compared to $119 million last year.
We expect depreciation and amortization to be approximately $125 million to $128 million in fiscal 2014.
At this time I will turn the call over to the operator for the question-and-answer portion of the call.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] Robert you're cutting in and out of us I'm afraid.
And in the meantime our next question is from Diane Geissler with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the role of innovation in your product portfolio.
So you've done a lot of work on jobs over the last couple of years Compleats the breakfast launch REV I think you mentioned some work that you're doing on Skippy and also just in terms of your advertising budget.
Can you just give us an idea about sort of innovation the things you've launched into the marketplace over the last 3 years? What percentage of sales are they at this point and what is your goal there? And then if you could talk a little bit about your advertising plans you did mention them but if you -- just in terms of as a percentage of sales or year-over-year increase I'm just trying to get a feeling for the role of innovation in your top line generation and also just the product portfolio in total? Sure Diane.
So we track our innovative items on a little bit longer time frame than the 3 years.
We still count items that we've created since the year 2000 as being innovative and we feel in the food industry the longer tracking given how long it takes consumers to change preference makes sense and we still see significant increases on items we introduced 7 8 9 years ago.
So that being said I mean that figure we hit our $2 billion challenge last year.
We complete this year north now of $2 billion.
So it's about 1/4 of our total sales come from these items that were new to the markets since the year 2000.
In terms of our philosophy of what we advertise it kind of varies.
Clearly in the area of new product innovation we have strongly gotten behind the REV launch with the significant campaign this summer and with plans to reinitiate advertising as we head into the new calendar year next year.
We're excited about that product line.
It's off to a great start.
Sell-through to consumers through the retail channel for REV thus far this year are nearly $30 million and it's only been a national distribution for 4 months.
So we think that item is building some very nice momentum.
But we also do advertise some of our traditional products.
We'll have a SPAM campaign in the upcoming year.
It'll be more digital and print-oriented.
We did talk about that we want to initiate advertising for Skippy and so in the second half of the year you should see something for the Skippy products.
And then Jennie-O Turkey Store will back on air having a stronger campaign.
They expect to be featuring turkey tacos using their lean ground product and that's anticipated to be on air starting in January.
Research Division</strong> Okay And I guess so what the [indiscernible] questions I'm just trying to get a feeling for if you think that the innovation is accelerating? And is the advertising responding to that? Are you accelerating your advertising as well? I'll use REV as the example for that.
And we're still kind of in the scheme of food in the early days of REV.
But it was a launch that took us several years of consumer research to prepare for.
We put a big effort against it in terms of gaining distribution quickly and then a strong ad campaign.
That frankly had not been the norm for a lot of our other innovative items.
They had tended to be maybe more niche items or simpler line extensions.
Maybe 1 other exception that would be Natural Choice we built from nothing and did put advertising against.
So we're certainly hopeful that the strong campaign for REV within a couple of years here is going turn it into a solid profit contributor for the Refrigerated Foods group.
And is that a model going forward? If we have another exciting big idea item like REV then we would be prepared to support it.
And our next question is now from Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Well far be it for me to question a big quarter beat like this but I have to ask about the SG&amp;A being down $12 million from a year ago.
Jody you didn't mention it in the opening remarks and I'm just kind of curious like why would it be down and why not spend more in fourth quarter if there's anything to pull forward to set yourself up for a much stronger fiscal '14? Sure great question.
The primary driver of lower SG&amp;A this quarter was advertising expense.
And as much as we'd like to think you could turn that on a dime because it takes a little more planning than that and the primary cuts were at the Jennie-O.
And we've talked about them of facing a difficult year all year.
They had more muted advertising.
We -- Jeff indicated in the previous answer expect that to get back to more normalized levels.
But that would be the SG&amp;A explanation.
The other piece Robert I mean what -- the item we're going to feature next year for Jennie-O the lean ground franchise always takes off during diet seasons so through January through March April time frame so we wanted to coincide the next big push on advertising with that launch.
Research Division</strong> So is it fair to say that you pushed back the advertising for Jennie-O? Maybe you're spending more in fiscal '14 than you normally would? Or you just -- you've always had a plan to spend heavily on Jennie-O in '14? So Jennie-O I mean years ago we really didn't advertise it with a lot of muscle at all.
And then in the last maybe 5 to 6 years we've really seen the benefit as we built out that franchise and branded set of items to being really frankly the only turkey brand on air.
So we've had very significant campaigns in '11 and '12 heading into '13.
We knew we were going to be confronted with some macro challenges in that unit and so we kind of had planned the year to be a little bit quieter year on the advertising front with the thought that yes even months ago that '14 should be a year we get back on strongly and that is the plan now we intend to execute.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question follow up.
I'm a little confused on what I should be rooting for in terms of commodity turkey prices.
If commodity turkey prices are lower I guess it's a benefit to your value add in Jennie-O.
But then I kind of wanted turkey prices to go higher in '14 because I thought that would help the commodity part of your business that's leveraged to that.
So what would be the best scenario for turkey prices next year? Well Jennie-O Turkey Store is primarily a vertically-integrated operations.
So it's pure cost-based.
We're less concerned about what the market price of any given turkey component is in terms of our inputs.
So in terms of rooting for anything in particular the dark meat portion of the bird is still the portion that would be most susceptible to going export or going in a commodity form.
So the breast meat market really kind of doesn't matter in that regard.
We tend to value-add almost all that product.
So all else being equal higher commodity turkey prices will get us better returns in the export and commodity markets for those dark meat components and that would be a benefit to Jennie-O and that's part of why we are expecting a good strong year out of Jennie-O on 2014 versus what they were confronted with early in 2013.
And our next question is from Jonathan Feeney with Janney.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the contribution from Skippy on the quarter and looking forward to next year.
So it looks like the disclosure you've given us as a percentage of volume percentage of sales it was just down a couple of points in contribution versus the last 2 quarters.
And I'm wondering is that a stronger performance sequentially at least revenue-wise in the Grocery Products business? Or is that a change in the contribution from Skippy or maybe some seasonality? And looking forward what -- I know to the -- I guess maybe the easiest way to ask it is can you give us a sense how much profit Skippy is going to contribute in 2014 to the -- or has contributed this year to the Grocery Products lines for modeling purposes going forward? Okay so the Skippy change in terms of sales momentum we're very pleased with where it is both on a domestic and the international markets that we were controlling at this point in the year.
We're dealing with year-over-year comparisons that we didn't own it a year ago so I mean a little apples to oranges there.
But we -- our sales team has done a nice job of gaining additional distribution of Skippy of gaining better features.
So we're really -- the mission in 2014 frankly on the domestic side is rejuvenating the brand with the Skippy consumer.
So it's those sales execution elements and it'll be the advertising element and we think our expectation is that should be strong.
And then when coupled with what we're looking at now that we own the China facility and overseas our overall expectation for Skippy returns in 2014 are consistent with the guidance we provided when we bought the business.
So kind of around a $0.15 contribution is the midpoint there and that is inclusive of the ad campaign that we referenced for the second half of 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay but no sense on how much operating -- I mean let me ask is it above or below average operating profit for the Grocery Products business margin? Now it's -- I mean in grocery pricing we've gone through some changes in that with the MegaMex business getting bigger and that's [indiscernible] down a percentage.
If you look at the sort of old Grocery Products of 16% 17% returns Skippy is kind of right in there with the advertising we're looking to do.
And our next question is from Tim Ramey with Davidson.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a little bit more about the big surge in international demand and whether there is an opportunity to enter China with SPAM sort of on the heels of the Skippy product line there.
Very much so Tim.
So our strength in international from a sheer volume standpoint still is more of the traditional market so the Philippines and Okinawa and Guam and many of the other territories.
Two real opportunity markets for us for SPAM going forward are mainland Japan and China.
We introduced SPAM to China.
It's been about 4 years ago but then we had a hiatus for 12 to 18 months when there were some trade issues that kept us from shipping the product in there.
But we're back building distribution there.
We do think it is leverage-able with Skippy they're both shelf-stable items sold into that retail channel that makes us a bigger player with the retailers in those areas and Skippy is already in a lot more markets than SPAM is in China.
So we do intend to work to try to piggyback those 2 together going forward in that market.
Research Division</strong> Does SPAM enjoy the kind of the positive cult status that it does in say Korea in China? Or how is that product regarded? Are people even aware of what it is? Yes pretty low awareness candidly Tim.
I mean it's -- you get more of that in Japan.
So even though in mainland Japan we've not pushed the item a lot of Japanese have traveled either to their own southern island of Okinawa or to Hawaii or many places.
So the familiarity with SPAM in Japan is quite a bit higher.
In China it was pretty much a new brand and a new product and so it's one that will just stay gradual building.
And our next question is from the line of Ken Zaslow with BMO Capital Markets.
This is Andrew Strelzik for Ken.
So you had a nice step-up in Refrigerated Foods margins this quarter.
Obviously you've introduced and had success with some of the higher-margin new products and pork margins have only gotten better since the end of the quarter.
So I'm wondering if you think we are entering -- I understand there can be volatility around the pork margins but if you think we're entering a period where there's a step-up in the base Refrigerated Foods margins from some of the new products and some of the other initiatives? Well back in 2010 2011 we did enjoy operating margins more in the low 7% range the last 2 years have been more in the 5%.
So we -- our game plan is certainly to start migrating back to where we were and hopefully go beyond that at some point.
And you've identified some of the drivers.
Definitely the new product innovation the REVs and the FIRE BRAISED in the Foodservice group.
Over time we hope we'll migrate of those margins upward.
And you highlighted a potential volatility in hog and pork prices for 2014.
Would you anticipate needing to take more pricing? Or do you think that you pretty much covered what you would expect in terms of volatility there? Andrew this is Jody.
I think we're pretty comfortable with the pricing we have to date given the market conditions to date.
Obviously there's a lot of uncertainty as it relates to the hog markets and we'll have to reassess as we go.
Some of our contracts are based -- more tightly linked to input costs so those kind of have automatic adjustments that go with them.
So we'll continue to monitor it.
Like Jeff had indicated we continue to have the opportunity to improve the margins in the Refrigerated Foods area.
And our next question is from the line of Farha Aslam with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> This is Eric Gottlieb for Farha.
I have a question on turkey and then I'll follow-up on chili.
So last year you took down your harvest levels 1% to 2% because of the grain cost.
I just want to know what kind of plans you have for coming year given the grains are down.
We do intend to increase production modestly in 2014 to support our value-added needs.
After cutting production for the past 2 years even the small increase will still leave us below our 2011 harvest levels.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then the other question on turkey is I've read reports of a shortage of heavier turkeys at one of your competitors.
Is there anything that Hormel that would -- are you experiencing that as well? And what will bring that on? We're really not.
I guess we don't know what transpired within that organization but we were able to fill all of our fresh whole turkey orders.
And really from what we've read in terms of other industry players they seem to be also in a position of filling orders.
So I think that was limited to one operation.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then moving on to chili.
I noticed you've faced a little bit tougher competition from some of your competitors.
Are you planning to support and advertise that brand? And how is the competitive dynamics working there? And then I'll pass it on.
Sure.
It definitely has been more competitive in the latter half of the year and chili may be one of the brands that we are seeing that is seeing some slowdown in terms of the center of the store sales that you're kind of hearing about from some of the other players.
We don't have any television or traditional media ad plan for chili for the next year but we will have strong promotional support in-store a major push against the Super Bowl season and also following up with that some of the other major drivers of kind of gatherings.
Our Hormel chili is a particularly -- a strong usage sort of out of the bowl dips and other types of items and so it lends itself to March Madness and grad parties and you name them.
So we definitely will have strong efforts to promote it on that basis.
And our next question is from Eric Larson with CL King.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just some clarification on the Skippy contribution Jeff.
You mentioned I think $0.15 for fiscal '14.
Is that the incremental contribution or would that be the total contribution? And obviously if it's incremental what was the contribution in fiscal '13 for Skippy? So $0.15 is the total contribution.
When we made the acquisition we described our expectation for 2013 as being a modest accretion.
It probably came in a little better than we had initially anticipated but we haven't given a precise number and we really don't want to get into a kind of product line by product line profit numbers.
So we gave you the $0.15 initially and we're standing by it.
But that's probably the last time we're going to give a specific number and cents per share for one line item in the franchise.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay yes.
I would just -- it just was confusing.
I wasn't sure if it was incremental or a total contribution so...
Very valid question yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That helped.
The outlook if you look at your hog your cut-out margins obviously we -- they're improving.
They've gotten better.
They're pretty volatile as well.
But you should -- how are you looking at how it unfolds really kind of -- first half should have relatively easy comparisons for the year and then it gets a little bit more difficult.
Would that be the proper way to from a 30 000 foot level look at your earnings stream for refrigerated on the cut-out margins next year Jeff? Eric this is Jody.
I couldn't have said it better myself.
Certainly right now we're experiencing favorable -- more favorable cut-out margins.
It'll all depend on the volatility in the marketplace.
So that's -- we're not looking for that to be a big win or a driver for us next year.
So for the full year kind of flattish.
And our next question is from the line of Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> So first question is on innovation.
Can you just give us a little bit more color on the REV launch? You mentioned some numbers but just give us some color on what you're seeing -- hearing from consumers on that that might make you feel good or bad about it? And also on the Compleats breakfast launch that's under the radar I would say.
And more importantly how do we track that in your results? Because it's -- the REV numbers are in the Refrigerated Foods segment I believe and the volume numbers there are negative because you had been cutting some SKUs or some business there that's non-core.
So how do we track that? What are your expectations for these 2 product lines? And if you can just give me some -- give us some color on how things are going on those 2 particular product lines that would be great.
Then I have a follow-up.
Sure.
Okay.
We feel very good about the REV launch thus far.
Our retail team did a great job gaining distribution in-store in time for our July ad campaign.
We then saw a great lift from the campaign itself enhanced trial our repeat numbers are strong.
And so it's off to a great start.
The initial line had 8 items we've added 4 more already and with probably a few more to come in the upcoming years.
So it seems like it's well poised to be a great contributor for us.
Now that being said I mean I think we talked about it at Investor Day.
I mean this kind of a launch is an investment.
So in terms of any sort of bottom line return coming from REV I mean we're -- that's probably 2015.
I mean we're in the mode that we're -- we think this warrants making this investment but it's not driving bottom line results right now.
Compleats breakfast since that's more of a -- kind of a line extension to an existing line there's more of an expectation that that should be able to contribute right away.
It's off to a decent start.
It's not as robust maybe is what we're seeing on REV but it's gained a good distribution and the consumers seem to be enjoying the products.
And so between those and some of the newer pasta items we rolled out during -- earlier part of last year both -- which are avail-ed by new technology that we have in place in our Dubuque plant we feel good about the Compleats franchise.
We've had some nice results in the last couple of quarters.
And then your question about the -- kind of how to tie it into refrigerated and why is refrigerated down Jody has a good answer for you on that piece.
So sure Jeff thanks.
So actually you'll remember I think we talked about it in the third quarter call.
We exited some low/no margin feed business in the Refrigerated Foods and that's a huge driver of those volume decreases.
So we'll start seeing some more normalized levels and comparisons when we enter the back half of 2014.
So follow up with Jana on any additional questions regarding that.
Research Division</strong> So just to wrap up on that so I understand that on the REV the profit will come in '15.
But we should start to see some positive volume trends as you report them in the Refrigerated Foods as a result of that launch correct? Yes I mean you really will need to look at net sales.
Because I mean REV is not a particularly heavy item so it's -- it doesn't drive nearly as much volume as it does unit and dollar sales.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a follow-up on a -- follow-up questions on turkey.
Can you update us on grain costs now that we're -- we have some visibility on the harvest? What's your expectation on grain costs? And more importantly where should we think about modeling turkey -- Jennie-O Turkey margins for next year? You have 11% to 15% I believe normalized range.
And I think on the last call you said 15% is not really a ceiling per se.
I would expect that given where grain costs are you should be at or above the 15%.
But any color on that relative to grain costs would be helpful.
We certainly do expect that grain costs will become increasingly more favorable as the year goes on.
I mean even in the most current quarter it actually were slightly higher year-over-year.
But as we blend in some more of the corn that's now in the $4 and $5 range we're certainly in a better position with that.
In terms of our expectation for the unit clearly would add up to somewhere in the upper end of that range.
We're looking at kind of a low double-digit increase for Jennie-O for the year.
Now that's inclusive of advertising.
So we want to make sure the momentum of that product line continues going forward.
And so we -- arguably we'll be reinvesting a little bit of the benefit we're gaining on the grain picture in to making sure we maintain that momentum of the new items.
And we have a follow-up question from Tim Ramey with Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Jody I wonder if you could give us a little bit of windage at least on the top line segment numbers.
Because for instance it would be tempting to model Jennie-O sales flat to down given the input costs but I think that's probably wrong.
And I'd love to be righter than wronger.
Any thoughts there? We all want to be righter than wronger.
Tim we challenge all our business units to deliver at a minimum 5% top line growth.
Jennie-O does have the added complexity with the commodity sales.
But as Jeff had indicated we're increasing our harvests slightly to accommodate some more value-added sales.
So I think if you model the 4% to 6% range you would be right in there.
Research Division</strong> And any thoughts on Grocery Products given -- is the Skippy China going to go in there? It's in international I guess.
Right.
Right.
So China is in international.
But our -- your expectations for Grocery should be in the higher 5% to 10% range for 2 reasons: one is a full year Skippy so they had 3 quarters of it this year.
And frankly the quarters we lap we expect to have some growth.
I mean we've made some nice distribution gains.
And then top of that we can -- we have some nice momentum in the MegaMex side of the business.
We're introducing a lot of new items under the Herdez brand and so we expect some solid results on top line from that group as well.
Research Division</strong> And since I'm on a roll I assume Specialty down because of as -- because of the contract.
Yes.
Yes that's the expectation.
They'll improve as the year goes on.
The team is working hard to find new areas of business to grow in the future.
But you saw the quarter they just had.
That's what they're confronted with at least early in the year.
And they'll gradually improve from there.
And we have a follow-up question from Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> These are I think going to be for Jody first.
Equity earnings can you just update us on what the expectations are for next year? We've had a down year now significantly down.
But just can you help us understand what you're expecting for '14 and why? So for -- 2013 really was impacted by the required accounting for an incentive/earnout-type payment on the Fresherized Food acquisition.
And as that business has had spectacular performance partially aided by some favorable avocado costs we needed to really do some catch-up on making sure that we were accruing.
For 2014 it will still -- we'll still have expense related to that incentive payment but it should be somewhat less.
And I think the rest of the business should perform to cover that down.
So I would not expect to see year-over-year decreases in the realm that you've seen in the last couple of quarters.
Research Division</strong> So just sort of flattish operating -- is the contribution on the P&amp;L should be similar to what we've seen? I would expect improvements.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as far as modeling goes you gave us expectation for interest expense the income line which obviously is mark-to-market for the rabbi trust mainly.
Is that -- you just assume no change from where we are currently right? I would not move it too much either way.
Most of the rabbi trust is invested in more fixed type return items to take out that volatility that we saw back in the late 2000.
Research Division</strong> Okay and just one more.
On D&amp;A the guidance that you gave $125 million to $128 million that includes how much in deal-related amortization for Skippy? Akshay why don't you follow-up with Jana on that? That's a little more granular than I'm prepared to address right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay just one last one on Skippy.
Can you -- you mentioned you're doing this advertising campaign which was -- you had mentioned it on the last call.
But relative to your initial guidance I mean have you -- can you just give us an update on sort of how is the domestic Skippy business perform relative to your expectations? And how has that sort of played into your view on advertising and how much you supported and when you supported? It's performing well.
It's performing well on a top line basis because we are gaining distribution and doing a better job with sales features.
It's performed well on the bottom line basis.
So that was my comment earlier where it did a little better than the modest accretion we had expected for 2013.
In terms of advertising when you make an acquisition I mean you only have so much information.
Our thought process going into it was we think -- we thought it was a wonderful brand that hadn't been communicated in quite a while and that we thought that was going to be a leverage point for the business and our team still thinks that.
They're in the process right now of really landing on the right messaging.
You should be looking for that campaign in the second half of the year.
So that's when they feel they will be ready to go with it.
But otherwise it's consistent with what our expectations had been for the brand.
And we have a follow-up question from Robert Moskow with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My model for fiscal '14 I'm assuming 40% profit growth in Jennie-O.
And I think Jody you said something in -- low double digits is more appropriate.
So there's a big gap between what I think is possible just based on the grain costs right? Because I thought grain costs would be down like $100 million based on how much corn you buy.
Am I assuming the benefit's coming too early? Or am I just overestimating the size of the grain benefit for turkey? Well let me give -- I'll give you a few reasons at least that would come to me.
One is we won't see a full year of the kind of grain costs that you're seeing reflected in the current cash markets.
I mean one because the timing of bringing turkey to market; and two because of the continual hedge program that in some cases lock you in a little bit higher than what the current market is.
Another reason would be we do have some sales within the Jennie-O organization particularly on the Foodservice side that are on formula-based contracts.
So that if the grain goes down then the price does go down in some cases there so that's not just all falling to the bottom line.
And then the last reason I would cite would be the enhanced advertising campaign.
So we are kicking back in to a level more like what we had done in our stronger years of 2011 2012.
And so we are investing some of the expected grain benefit into advertising.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
And in the All Other segment when you add the Chinese Skippy business how much contribution should we expect for fiscal '14 from that? Is it material? Yes it's material.
I mean in international we've had wonderful growth in that group.
We've said that against our 5 and 10 algorithm of company-wide of 10% company-wide segment profit growth that we expect international group is going to be able to do better than that.
And I would expect that again in the upcoming year both with the momentum they already had on their business and the fact that they now have control over the Skippy China piece.
And Rob international did benefit from Skippy in 2013 as well because of -- the North American part of that portfolio as well as exports into some of the Asia countries but not China.
Research Division</strong> Right because you had exports in '13.
But I'm just wondering now that you're running the domestic business in China is that -- is there a significant amount of profit in that business to take into account when we model it for '14? It'll help international's results.
And it appears there are no further -- excuse me there is a question from Eric Gottlieb with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Just one follow-up.
The guidance you provided would that include the closing of the Chinese Skippy business or no? Yes.
It's all in yes.
And there are no further questions at this time.
So I will turn it back to management for any closing remarks.
Thank you all for joining us today and have a wonderful Thanksgiving.
And that does conclude your call for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Hormel Foods Corporation First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded today February 20 2014.
And I will now turn the conference over to Jana Haynes Director Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Hormel Foods conference call for the first quarter of fiscal 2014.
We released our results this morning before the market opened around 6:30 a.m.
Eastern Time.
If you did not receive a copy of the release you can find it on our website at www.hormelfoods.com under the Investors section.
On our call today is Jeff Ettinger Chairman of the Board President and Chief Executive Officer; and Jody Feragen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jeff will provide a review of the operating results for the quarter.
Then Jody will provide detailed financial results for the quarter.
The line will be open for questions following Jody's remarks.
[Operator Instructions] An audio replay of this call will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m.
Central Time today February 20 2014.
The dial-in number is 1 (800) 406-7325 and the access code is 4664913.
It will also be posted to our website and archived for 1 year.
Before we get started with the results of the quarter I need to reference the Safe Harbor.
Some of the comments made today will be forward-looking and are made under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the statements we will be making.
Among the factors that may affect the operating results of the company are fluctuations in the costs and availability of raw materials and market conditions for finished products.
Please refer to Pages 26 through 30 in the company's annual report for the fiscal year ended October 27 2013 for more details.
It can be accessed on our website.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
We announced record first quarter earnings this morning of $0.57 per share up 19% over last year.
Operating profit increased by 20% with 4 of our 5 segments registering gains this quarter.
In terms of the top line we generated record sales of $2.2 billion an increase of 6% over last year on volume growth of 2%.
I will now take you through each segment.
Our Grocery Products segment profit increased 13% and sales grew by 20%.
Sales for Grocery Products in the quarter were down 2% excluding Skippy products.
Sales gains in Grocery Products were led by Skippy peanut butter Hormel chili Hormel bacon toppings and the HERDEZ line of salsas and sauces.
We are particularly pleased with our team's success in securing increased distribution and feature activity for our Skippy peanut butter products.
While our Grocery Products segment profit increased during the quarter there were some challenges.
Higher beef and pork input costs pressured the margins of some of our core products and sales of our SPAM family of products and Hormel Compleats microwave meals were soft during Q1.
Segment operating profit for Refrigerated Foods was up 59% driven by positive pork operating margins and growth in both our foodservice and retail value-added franchises.
Sales for Refrigerated Foods increased 6% led by retail sales of our Hormel BLACK LABEL bacon LLOYD'S Ribs and Hormel REV Snack Wraps.
We also enjoyed sales growth in our foodservice business including such items as our Hormel FIRE BRAISED Meats and Old Smokehouse Pecanwood Smoked Bacon.
Segment volume for Refrigerated Foods declined 1% due to increased internal utilization of raw materials and the impact of our exit from the animal feed business in the second quarter of 2013.
Segment profit at Jennie-O Turkey Store increased 1%.
While we benefited from more favorable feed cost this quarter the savings were offset by weaker live production performance due to the sustained extremely cold temperatures we have experienced this winter.
The unusually cold weather has also caused national propane and natural gas shortages driving up the cost of these fuels significantly which will negatively impact our raw material costs in the second and third quarters.
Sales of our Jennie-O turkey Store lean ground turkey chubs and tray packs were strong in the first quarter as we kicked off a new Make The Switch media campaign in January featuring lean ground turkey as an ingredient in tacos.
Overall the Jennie-O turkey Store segment reported sales growth of 2% on flat volume.
Timing differences of whole bird shipments for the holiday season year-over-year masked some of the value-added sales increases we enjoyed during the quarter.
We are pleased with the sustained growth of our value-added turkey products in retail foodservice and deli as consumers continue to find better food solutions in our portfolio of turkey products.
Our Specialty Foods segment reported an operating profit decrease of 11% and a sales decrease of 16% driven by the expiration of the agreement last summer allowing Diamond Crystal Brands to sell certain sugar substitutes in the foodservice trade channels.
The decline from the contract expiration more than offset gains in our sugar and Hormel health labs businesses.
Our Specialty Foods team is focused on rebuilding its product portfolio and providing sales and operating profit growth as soon as possible.
Our International &amp; Other segment profit increased 32% and sales grew 24%.
Strong export sales of the SPAM family of products and Skippy peanut butter drove the positive results.
Our China operations also continue to augment segment sales growth.
As we move into the second quarter we will kick off national media campaigns and promotional activity to support our SPAM family of products and Compleats microwave meals.
We also expect continued positive momentum when it comes to our Skippy brand.
Pork operating margins continue to be favorable.
Bacon demand remains strong and we are very pleased with the performance of our Hormel REV Snack Wraps which are exceeding our expectations with excellent repeat purchase rates.
The PED virus has impacted our internal farm operations and several of our independent hog suppliers.
Our Refrigerated Foods team is closely monitoring the effects on our pork raw material supplies.
Based on the timing of the virus breaks in our supply chain so far we anticipate tighter pork raw materials in the summer months.
We are taking steps now to ensure we will be able to meet the needs of our customers during this time period.
We continue to expect year-over-year sales and profit growth from Jennie-O Turkey Store but profit growth will be at more modest levels than initially anticipated due to fuel costs.
Finally we are enjoying significant growth in our International &amp; Other business segment and look for this to continue going forward.
Taking all of these significant factors into account we are maintaining our fiscal 2014 earnings guidance of $2.17 to $2.27 per share.
At this time I will turn the call over to Jody Feragen to discuss the financial information relating to the first quarter.
Thank you Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
Earnings for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 totaled $153.3 million or $0.57 per share compared to $129.7 million or $0.48 per share a year ago.
Dollar sales for the first quarter totaled $2.24 billion compared to $2.12 billion last year a 6% increase.
Volume for the first quarter was 1.27 billion pounds up 2% from the same period last year.
Selling general and administrative expenses in the first quarter were 7.4% of sales unchanged from last year.
Selling general and administrative expenses are expected to be between 7.3% and 7.6% of sales for the full year.
Equity and earnings of affiliates was $4.7 million in the first quarter versus $9.8 million last year.
The decrease is the result of unfavorable exchange rates and lower earnings at our MegaMex foods joint venture which experienced higher input costs.
Advertising expense for the quarter was $36.1 million compared to $24.7 million last year.
The increase was the result of the new Make The Switch ad campaign for Jennie-O Turkey Store and the national advertising campaign for Hormel REV wrap.
Additionally advertising campaigns are planned for Skippy peanut butter our SPAM family of products and Hormel Compleats microwave meals.
Interest and investment income was $1.2 million for the first quarter compared to $1.8 million last year.
Interest expense for the quarter was $3.1 million unchanged from last year.
We expect interest expense to be about $12 million to $14 million for fiscal 2014.
Our effective tax rate in the first quarter was 34.3% versus 33.5% in fiscal 2013.
For fiscal 2014 we expect the effective tax rate to be between 34% and 35%.
The basic weighted average number of shares outstanding for the first quarter was 263.8 million shares.
The diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding for the first quarter was 270.2 million shares.
Depreciation and amortization for the quarter was $31.8 million up from $29.8 million last year.
We expect depreciation and amortization to be approximately $125 million to $128 million in fiscal 2014.
Total long-term debt at the end of the quarter was $250 million unchanged from last year.
Capital expenditures for the quarter total $37 million compared to $22.1 million last year.
For fiscal 2014 we expect capital expenditures to be approximately $130 million to $140 million.
At the beginning of the first quarter we completed the acquisition of the Skippy peanut butter business in China spending $41.4 million and using our available cash balances for the transaction.
The integration of this business into our current sales and distribution operation has been completed by our international team.
At this time I will turn the call over to the operator for the question-and-answer portion of the call.
Luke? [Operator Instructions] Your first question today will come from the line of Jeremy Scott of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us an update on the REV product line? How are consumers responding? And how is it performing versus your expectations? And then maybe an update on the Compleats breakfast line as well.
Very good.
We're very pleased with how REV is performing in the marketplace.
As we exited the holiday season and got into kind of back-to-school time frame for the winter semester at schools we're seeing good sales response.
We're ahead of schedule in terms of our repeat measures on this product line.
We continue to have excellent distribution in the marketplace and would expect that our relaunch consumer advertising campaign will also add to sales within the REV line.
When it comes to breakfast Compleats we've had reasonably good success getting the product landed at a number of retailers.
It's becoming one of the better selling items of the Compleats line a few of the varieties and so we're pleased in that regard.
Overall I have to concede the Compleats didn't fully live up to our expectations for the quarter but we do between the advertising that's kicking in for Compleats and some better feature activities that we know we have on the books for the upcoming 2 quarters we expect some improvements on the Compleats line and breakfast Compleats will be part of that.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I appreciate it's pretty difficult to track but on PED can you talk about your exposure relative to the industry? It seems like a lot of the barns affected are from your primary sourcing areas.
And then maybe get into how -- what's the volume impact for the summer months and how the margin volatility is going to play into your guidance.
Wow that's a lot of questions in one question.
Certainly the industry condition leaves supplies uncertain for I think a lot of folks in the industry and we would expect higher hog prices to result from that.
And that's pretty much reflected in what we're seeing in the futures market.
Our team has worked hard to identify gaps that we see in our supply chain along with our internal supply as well as our producers.
And we will look to make sure that we try to secure enough production to make sure that we can meet our customers' needs and the needs of our value-added businesses.
Did that answer all your questions? I'm trying to remember what the rest of them were.
Research Division</strong> Just what the -- what your expectations for a volume impact may be in the summer months when the shortages really come to -- into play.
Boy I don't really have a specific decline number for us because as I'd indicated we've been working to fill some of those gaps so might be even a little early to tell.
The benefit is is that it's moving across the country if you will in waves so that it's not all going to absolutely hit one particular period.
Your next question will come from the line of Akshay Jagdale of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> First question is on Jennie-O Turkey can you -- you mentioned the fuel cost and just the tough -- the cold weather and the impact that's having on the operating profit.
Can you help us quantify that in anyway? I guess the best I can tell you Akshay would be that our original expectations for Jennie-O Turkey Store were reasonably solid gains year-over-year in segment profit for most of the quarters.
As you saw in Q1 it was a much more modest gain.
That's probably more of the mode we would expect now for the next couple of quarters.
And then by the fourth quarter we do expect the division to be in a position to be more solidly up.
So you know the fuel costs and live production were somewhat unexpected and it was some significance we do recognize so obviously there are some benefits in terms of total feed costs.
They're on a relatively healthy position when it comes to the commodity meat markets within the turkey complex.
And we're really quite happy with their value-added growth.
I mean even though the aggregate growth for all of Jennie-O in sales was 2% as I mentioned some of that was related to some whole bird timing and so notwithstanding the whole birds our value-added businesses were up more in the 4% to 5% range.
So we're very happy with that.
Research Division</strong> So the underlying sort of profitability of the business continues to move in the right direction.
It's I would -- is it fair to say that this issue should be transitory? And it seems like a couple more quarters is sort of what you're expecting.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on refrigerated I thought it was a very good quarter if you look at margins on a per-pound basis probably the best one you've had in couple of years.
So was it really that good? And then how do I parse out the -- or reconcile the commentary on the REV wraps and the volumes being down? I know there's a lot of moving parts but clearly the REV business is doing well but will it start to show up in the revenue numbers? Or -- and if so where? I'll pass it on.
Sure.
For Refrigerated Foods I mean it was a good quarter.
I kind of look at 3 things going well within the refrigerated group I mean clearly the basic cutout margins were a lot more favorable this year than what we had experienced a year ago.
Secondly some of the more kind of market-based supply chain type items if you recall we talked about those last year at the Investor Day is bacon for example is being challenging circumstance for part of last year.
That complex is in much better shape right now.
And then our higher value-added items are all -- are really doing quite well.
And again I -- in terms of the masking effect of the change in feed sales and then some of the internal transfers I mean if you just kind of look at the retail value-added franchises they were up solidly above 5% growth in the aggregate with several items doing well.
REV is part of that.
We're -- as we've mentioned earlier we're happy with where REV is showing up and we do expect to see a time where you'll see that top line reflected as part of the total Refrigerated Foods results.
Your next question will come from the line of Eric Larson of CL King.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up on the cutout margins Jeff.
For the kind of the upcoming quarters I think all of us pretty much anticipate you're going to have a tighter hog supply.
Is there enough room at retail for the cutout margin -- for the prices to at least be able to offset your higher costs? In other words can you at least maintain your cutout margin for the -- for let's say the next 2 3 quarters? The cutout margins were quite favorable in Q1.
In our very current environment they remain favorable but -- and we've known from the last 2 years that that can be mercurial.
I mean it -- and when you add in the effect of PED and what kind of a variable that might be is I guess we're not counting on cutout margins staying at today's level but that's where they are today.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes I just didn't -- I'm just trying to get a feel for whether there's enough room in the whole meat complex.
Obviously you've got very high beef prices and chicken prices have moved up too because your supplies have been constrained there as well.
So it seems like there's the ability at retail to get to pricing that you need to offset that lower supply.
But that's just my observation.
Okay.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And number two could you talk a little bit about -- more about MegaMex? Obviously your equity earnings in the quarter were about half of what they were a year ago.
And is it just a margin issue with input costs? And are they going to price to try to pick some of that back up in the back half or the final 9 months of your year? Or how should we look at that equity line? Well MegaMex I mean we talked last year about an earnout composition related to the Fresherized Food piece and so really for the remaining quarters of this year that was still on a percentage basis hold down what ultimately MegaMex will contribute to the company.
Otherwise I mean you have -- it's -- there are quite a few factors.
I mean there's peso exchange factors.
There are some supply factors.
We've had some uneveness in terms of business performance.
The Don Miguel piece was a little bit softer in this quarter both in sales and in terms of some margin squeeze.
On the other hand the HERDEZ line was really quite strong and we're happy with the sales of the Wholly -- the fresherized the Wholly Guacamole item.
So overall we're still very high on what MegaMex is going to be able to do for the company but we're kind of swimming through some choppy seas in terms of that equity and earnings line for probably the next couple of quarters.
Your next question will come from the line of Rachel Nabatian of Crédit Suisse.
First question is a follow-up to Akshay's.
On Jennie-O are you running the business as well as you thought you would internally? The cold weather and fuel costs are things that we've heard about the commodity chicken operators but the depths and the expected duration of the negative impact hasn't been to the same extent as what you have discussed today.
Okay.
Yes I mean we're -- we think the team up there really does a very good job in terms of trying to anticipate potential challenges.
I mean the whole situation related to propane and we've got into a mode here during January where we were a little bit concerned as to whether we would even get any propane.
And when you have live turkeys in a barn that's a very significant problem.
We did survive through that time frame but with much more significant costs than what our initial plans had been built around.
We do believe that there'll be somewhat of a transitory effect of those costs as we finally get out of the cold weather and hopefully the markets return to some normalcy.
We're seeing some improvement on the natural gas front already in terms of the market coming back a little bit more normal situation and would expect propane to follow.
But overall I mean it's -- I would agree that we would have even a stronger quarter at Jennie-O but for those conditions but I think the team's doing what they can to weather those.
Okay that's fair.
And then just one follow-up question on REV wraps and protein snacking trends.
So I just got back from CAGNY and almost every presenter had a focus on protein.
And then Kraft and Hillshire Brands were introducing meat plates plates with meat nuts and cheese or chicken with dipping sauce.
And so I guess I just wanted to know your thoughts on this and if you think it's a positive since it'll grow the category.
I believe these products are generally next to REV wraps in-store.
Okay.
Well I mean it's early to tell.
I mean some of those products are just going to get in market this spring.
I mean they've been shown to the retailers but in terms of actual shelf impact we obviously believe in the concept that meat or meat and cheese combinations could be a positive element for consumers when it comes to snacking opportunities.
And so it's certainly not stunning to us that others have looked at the marketplace the same way and have come up with different offerings.
I mean it's -- I think the offerings that I've seen are really all quite different from each other so there certainly is the possibility that they could well be complementary and hit consumers at slightly different occasions or maybe a slightly different age audience.
But in terms of what we're looking to accomplish with REV we're happy with what we've seen and we continue to gain shelf placements even in the environment of others offering -- introducing new items.
Your next question will come from the line of Ken Zaslow with Bank of Montréal.
Sorry to beat a dead horse here.
But if I kind of think about the turkey business is it fair to say about $20 million over a 3-quarter period is kind of the estimated cost associated with this? Is that a fair number? You're talking about fuel alone? Yes.
Just from a 3-quarter impact first second and third quarter.
If you're looking just fuel cost by itself that number is low.
But we obviously have other things offsetting some of the fuel unexpectedly high fuel.
But as we -- we use a significant amount of fuel in the operation.
So it was north of $10 million for -- on a 1-quarter basis.
Okay.
So actually the more interesting question I hope is all right so now you had greater pressure from that which was unexpected.
What was better than expected to offset this throughout the whole organization? Because if you're saying $20 million to $30 million is low obviously you've had other successes that may not -- were not in your forecast as well.
So what actually is exceeding your expectations across your portfolio? Okay.
Refrigerated Foods ended up doing a little bit better than we thought.
We knew they were going to have a positive year but the overall total in terms of their gain year-over-year was more significant than we had originally planned.
And we are attaining kind of better than pro forma benefits from Skippy peanut butter in both the grocery and international segment.
Great.
And my final question is on the Compleats what is the -- I mean in SPAM what do you think the progress will be throughout the year in terms of the build? Because it seems like this is again another -- one other piece of your portfolio that has not been as good as we would have expected but it sounds like you guys are addressing it again.
Ken I don't have a real clean answer for you on that.
I mean it's been a little bit of a puzzle even internally.
We thought maybe we had turned the corner a little bit last year.
We had a couple of really pretty strong quarters with Compleats heading into Q4 and kind of later in the year it was a little softer.
And then Q1 clearly it did not meet our expectations.
So we're hopeful that the new marketing effort and the new -- and some of the promotions we have with the customers will get that back on the right trajectory.
We think we've introduced some items that consumers like in terms of the breakfast Compleats items.
But time will tell here.
I mean I would agree with you that that's been one of our franchises that's been a little bit more of a struggle for us.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question will come from the line of Farha Aslam of Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question around the very strong margins in fresh pork and kind of how you think about pricing in your value-added products because it looks like hog costs will go up going into that spring-summer time frame.
Are you thinking that you're going to focus on passing along those prices in your packaged meats items? Or are you thinking of more taking a balanced approach and saying "Okay I'm making a lot in fresh pork.
Maybe I don't need to take as much on my packaged meats."? Sure Farha.
This is Jody.
We always evaluate where we're at with our cost structure and the prices that we go to the retailers with.
And in some instances like the supply chain items it's probably a more rapid change.
Certainly in some of foodservice areas we have contracts that have levers that move along with the cost of goods.
I would expect that we'll continue to evaluate and look at where we need to take pricing.
And if it's appropriate at the time we'll -- we won't be the only ones with those higher input costs in the industry.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then so your -- sort of how much timing is required for you if we see -- because we see that summer hogs are going to be really expensive.
You need to start talking about pricing with retailers now? Or can you -- or is it all automatically or formulaic? We're just trying to understand how you're planning on managing that summer hog hit.
Sure.
From the retail perspective I would say the team's probably looking at it right now.
It'll be dependent on evaluating those gaps in our supply chain and what we think it's going to do to us internally.
So I would believe the team is working on it now.
And on the grocery side we actually have gone to our customers and notified them of pricing on such as the beef-based items such as Hormel chili Mary Kitchen hash and also on SPAM luncheon meat.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And sort of the degree of pricing that you've taken on those roughly? Low to mid-single digit.
It varies by item.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then this has been -- sort of you've had China with that Skippy business for about a quarter now.
Kind of now that you've had it how do you feel about it? Have you been able to kind of marry SPAM and Skippy in China? And how is that working out? It's working out well.
I mean it's interesting.
In terms of our quarter 1 results our international team actually didn't get their hands on the business as quickly to be able to benefit fully from it in the quarter.
They kind of by January kind of had the full control and so they got 1 month worth of full benefit of integration of China.
But they're quite happy with what they've been able to do with some of the distributors not only in China but in some of the other Asian-based markets where we have seen an ability to kind of lever at least the attention level or if somebody can carry both a SPAM and a Skippy as items into the marketplace.
So -- and then it's really -- it's way too early in terms of any sort of operating synergies.
I mean we literally have had our team helping the local group there for a very short period of time.
Your next question comes from Akshay Jagdale.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about Skippy.
I think last quarter you said you wouldn't talk about that line item like financially separately.
But are you -- it seems like it's going better.
So can you give us some more color on what's going better? Is it the peanut cost issue? Or is it just distribution and maybe a little bit more color on what's driving that? Obviously the sales execution seems to be better but anything to help us understand the performance of Skippy within the context of the category because the other big brand has had some issues in recent months? Okay.
Well I mean the costs have remained benign so that's been positive overall for the net margin for the business.
But probably the bigger factor that has been the consumer reception to our positioning with the item.
We -- as we took the item over we found there were some retailers that had either no Skippy items or pretty scant section even though we could identify there were long-standing consumers within that marketplace.
And so they were quite receptive to the notion of us getting back in and becoming supportive behind it.
And we coupled that with promotional support.
Clearly it -- especially on a year-over-year basis if you think about it this was the quarter that last year the business was for sale.
So I don't blame the seller that they probably weren't spending a lot of time promoting the product that quarter.
So on a year-over-year basis especially we certainly drove some added feature activity but our feature spending on this item is now at a level that's kind of commensurate with being the #2 player in the category.
It allows us to generate some good solid growth in terms of the top line but also is living up to our performance expectations in terms of margins.
Research Division</strong> And now you're going to put some marketing behind it and then sort of the innovation piece will come after that.
Is that how we...
Yes exactly Akshay.
So the timing I mean we're looking at back-to-school time for the advertising.
I mean we're still settling on kind of the final new campaign themes and what the media elements will be.
But I would -- you should look for it in the later part of our fiscal year as the kids go back to school in the fall.
And then the new product innovation -- and we have some closer-end things that will hit the market here soon.
But in terms of kind of a more major what we talked about sort of the out of the jar type newer opportunities those definitely are more 2015 probably not even right out of the gate 2015.
But we'll follow on soon after when the marketing kicks off.
Research Division</strong> And just one last one on grocery just can you talk a little bit about the environment.
Obviously the center of the store is quite pressured and we've heard that a lot in CAGNY.
But I don't think it's clear to anybody really why the consumers are so strapped especially on their food purchase.
And so any -- what are your -- what's your read on that situation? Well for us the center of the store was somewhat choppy.
I mean we had items such as SPAM and Compleats that ended up having declines year-over-year.
And so certainly you can look at those and say gee we're experiencing some kind of at least short-term contraction of those franchises in this current environment.
On the other hand we had several items that did well like bacon bits and chili and HERDEZ and Wholly.
And so we were I guess blessed if you will with a lot of niche relatively young items in some cases that are still finding more and more consumers.
And so we're maybe a little less than the mode of having a lot of high household penetrations extremely mature franchises.
And so we seem to be able to expand our consumer base even in this current economic environment.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I'll now turn the call back to management for any closing.
Thank you all for joining us today.
We appreciate your interest in Hormel Foods.
Have a great day.
And thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this will conclude the conference call for today.
Again we thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Hormel Foods Corporation Second Quarter Earnings Call on the 21st of May.
Throughout today’s recorded presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
After the presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
(Operator Instructions) I will now turn over the conference to Jana Haynes Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Hormel Foods’ conference call for the second quarter of fiscal 2014.
We released our results this morning before the market opened around 6.30 A.M.
Eastern Time.
If you did not receive a copy of the release you can find it on our website at www.hormelfoods.com under the Investors section.
On our call today is Jeff Ettinger Chairman of the Board President and Chief Executive Officer; and Jody Feragen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jeff will provide a review of the operating results for the quarter.
Then Jody will provide detailed financial results for the quarter.
The line will open for questions following Jody’s remarks.
As a courtesy to the other analysts please limit your question – yourself to one question with one follow-up.
If you have additional queries you are welcome to get back in the queue.
An audio replay of this call will be available beginning at 10.30 A.M.
Central Time today May 21 2014.
The dial-in number is 1-800-406-7325 and the access code is 4679596.
The audio replay will also be posted to our website and archived for one year.
Before we get started with the results of the quarter I need to reference to the Safe Harbor statements.
Some of the comments made today will be forward-looking and are made under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the statements we will be making.
Among the factors that may affect the operating results of the company are fluctuations in the costs and availability of raw materials and market conditions for finished products.
Please refer to pages 28 through 35 in the company’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended January 26 2014 for more details.
It can be accessed on our website.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Jeff.
Good morning.
We announced record second quarter earnings this morning of $0.52 per share up 13% over last year.
Operating profit increased by 14% with four of our five segments registering gains this quarter.
In terms of the top line we generated record sales of $2.24 billion an increase of 4% over last year with a 1% volume decline.
I will now take you through each segment.
Our Grocery Products segment profit increased 16% aided in part by a favorable comparison to fiscal 2013 which included SKIPPY peanut butter acquisition cost.
Dollar sales were flat versus last year.
We have now left our acquisition of the SKIPPY peanut butter business.
so we are no longer providing quarterly segment sales without SKIPPY peanut butter sales.
Higher pork beef and avocado input costs squeezed margins in our Grocery Products segment.
To mitigate these higher costs we increased prices during the second quarter on our SPAM family of products Hormel chili and Dinty Moore stew.
These products along with Hormel Compleats microwave meals all experienced year-over-year sales declines.
We also increased prices on our Wholly Guacamole products.
Sales gains in Grocery Products were led by SKIPPY peanut butter Hormel bacon toppings and the HERDEZ line of products within our MegaMex Foods joint venture.
We are excited about our new SKIPPY Singles peanut butter items launched this quarter.
These six packs of single-served one and a half ounce cups are offered in SKIPPY Creamy and SKIPPY Natural Creamy varieties and are excellent for on-the-go meals or snacks.
Segment operating profit for Refrigerated Foods was up 38%.
Higher pork operating margins and growth in our foodservice area more than offset margin pressures due to higher raw material costs.
Sales for Refrigerated Foods increased 10% led by retail sales of our Hormel Black Label bacon Hormel REV Snack Wraps and Hormel Country Crock side dishes.
We also enjoyed sales growth in our Foodservice businesses including such items as our Hormel FIRE BRAISED Meats Old Smokehouse Pecanwood Smoked Bacon and Natural Choice deli meats.
Segment volume was flat compared to last year driven by reduced commodity sales as we increased internally utilization of raw materials in our value-added products.
Our Foodservice team continues to focus on meeting the needs of our customers with our latest innovation Hormel Bacon 1 fully cooked bacon.
This product delivers a crisp delicious pre-cooked bacon that performs in taste like it was cooked from raw.
Segment profit at Jennie-O Turkey Store increased 2%.
As we discussed on our call last quarter the unusually cold winter along with abnormally high propane and natural gas prices negatively impacted our live turkey productivity in margins because turkey’s average at 22-week growing cycle.
these higher cost turkeys were marketed in our second quarter and will continue to work through our system.
We have also experienced lower bird weights impacting volumes throughout our system to Jennie-O Turkey Store segment reported second quarter dollar sales 1% lower than last year with a volume decline of 5%.
Other macro conditions including lower corn costs and higher turkey commodity prices along with growth in our value-added product sales allowed our Jennie-O Turkey Store team to generate at least a modest increase in operating profit during the second quarter.
For example our investment in Make The Switch media campaign drove heightened consumer interest in the featured product Jennie-O fresh ground turkey tray packs and ground turkey chubs.
Our Specialty Foods segment reported an operating profit decrease of 26% and a sales decrease of 12% largely driven by the expiration of the agreement in July of 2013 allowing Diamond Crystal Brands to sell certain sugar substitutes into foodservice trade channels.
Our Specialty Foods scheme was able to generate gains in our nutritional products business during Q2.
Our International &amp; Other team turned in another strong quarter.
segment profit increased 34% and sales grew 23%.
this is the first full quarter in which we are including our SKIPPY operations in China.
Strong export sales of SKIPPY peanut butter and fresh pork along with growth in our China operations drove the positive results.
Looking ahead to the second half we expect elevated beef pork turkey and avocado costs to continue to squeeze margins on many of our value-added products.
Pricing actions taken this quarter will partially mitigate margin pressures but will likely impact sales growth.
on the other hand the addition of the SKIPPY peanut butter business has added additional balance to our portfolio moderating some of these overall input cost pressures.
We anticipate pork raw material supplies that tighten significantly later in our third quarter impacting our great food segment.
Our team has done a good job preparing for these potential raw material challenges.
due to anticipated lower hog supplies today we notified our Fremont Nebraska employees that we will reduce our harvest operations to four days a week beginning in June.
We will work closely with our employees and customers to keep them up-to-date on any additional changes that may impact them.
The overall impact of tighter pork supplies on our industry remains to be seen.
We continue expect the year-over-year sales and profit growth from our Jennie-O Turkey Store segment our growth will be at more modest level than initially anticipated.
Finally we are enjoying significant growth in our international segment and look for this to continue going forward.
Taking all of these significant factors into account we are maintaining our fiscal 2014 guidance range of $2.17 to $2.27 per share but expect our full year earnings to be toward the lower end of this range.
The elevated input costs due to tighter supplies of many of our raw materials are transitory in nature and will normalize over time.
Until then we believe our experienced team will navigate these challenges and continue to deliver growth.
At this time I will turn the call over to Jody Feragen to discuss the financial information relating to the second quarter.
Thank you Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
Earnings for the second quarter of fiscal 2014 totaled $140.1 million or $0.52 per share compared to $125.5 million or $0.46 per share a year ago.
Dollar sales for the second quarter totaled $2.24 billion compared to $2.15 billion last year a 4% increase.
Volume for the second quarter was 1.22 billion pounds down 1% from the same period last year.
Selling general and administrative expenses in the second quarter were 7.4% of sales down from 8% of sales last year.
Selling general and administrative expenses were higher last year due to SKIPPY related transactions and transition costs totaling approximately $9 million and primarily reflected in the Grocery Products and international segments.
For the full year we expect selling general and administrative expenses to be between 7.3% and 7.6% of sales.
Equity in earnings of affiliates was $3.6 million in the second quarter versus $7.2 million last year.
The decrease is largely the result of higher input costs at our MegaMex Foods joint venture.
Advertising expense for the quarter was $34.8 million compared to $26.1 million last year.
The increase was the result of the new Make The Switch ad campaign for Jennie-O Turkey Store and advertising for Hormel chili and SPAM luncheon meat.
Interest expense for the quarter was $3.1 million unchanged from last year.
We expect interest expense to be $12 million to $14 million for fiscal 2014.
Our effective tax rate in the second quarter was 34% versus 31.5% last year.
For fiscal 2012 rate was lower due primarily to the benefit of settlements with various foreign and state tax jurisdictions.
For fiscal 2014 we expect the effective tax rate to be between 34% and 34.5%.
The basic weighted average number of shares outstanding for the second quarter was $263.9 million.
The diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding for the second quarter was $270.4 million shares.
Depreciation and amortization for the quarter was $31.9 million versus $31.3 million last year.
we expect depreciation and amortization to be $125 million to $128 million for fiscal 2014.
Total long-term debt at the end of the quarter was $215 million unchanged from last year.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $40 million up nearly $17 million over last year.
For fiscal 2014 we expect capital expenditures to be approximately $140 million to $150 million.
At this time I will turn the call over to the operator for the question-and-answer portion of the call.
Rodney? Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) The first question comes from Farha Aslam of Stephens Incorporated.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</strong> Hi good morning.
Good morning Farha.
Good morning.
Inc.</strong>  Two questions the first one on your core business.
could you just give us more color on the REV Wraps and now that it’s been in the market for a while how it’s performing and the second one is on again on your core business on the Compleats side it looks like your shelf-stable microwavable meals just are soft and any actions you’re taking to turn that around.
Thank you Farha.
In terms of REV we’re really quite pleased with the progress of that relatively new product line.
We’re hitting just about the one-year anniversary of it being available broadly in the marketplace.
We’ve already hit our trial goal with the product and we’re very close to hitting our repeat purchase goal as well.
To give you a sense of scale of the product line I mean the IRI reported sales whether you look at the last 13 weeks or last four weeks and extrapolate out on a full year basis we’re at a pace right now of $50 million to $60 million so that’s really a quite nice introduction.
As we’ve talked about in the past it’s not presently contributing to Refrigerated Foods segment profit in any meaningful way because this is an investment time for that brand both in terms of advertising and slotting but we’re very pleased with the progress thus far.
Compleats is a slightly different story where we continue to see sluggish sales when it comes to that product line.
There are certainly some products within the line that are doing well including our new Compleats breakfast items.
but overall I would say that is a watch out for us.
Our team is earnestly looking at different ways to either present the products in terms of the packaging or in terms of what should be in the product line pricing strategies you name it but we recognize that we need to restore growth in our Compleats product line.
Inc.</strong> Great.
And then as a follow-up you have a very strong balance sheet and M&amp;A is very prevalent in the space right now.
Could you give us some commentary on what you’re seeing in terms of transactions what’s of interest to Hormel and any thoughts you’d have in terms of international versus domestic? That’s a lot of questions.
Let me try to answer them.
First of all we like to look for acquisitions that would add to our strategic platforms certainly those that are in growing categories and we certainly like number one or number two.
We like them to be accretive to the segment profits as well as accretive to the company as a whole.
And we’re always looking for something where we bring more than just the checkbook to the closing.
Certainly anything that offers the opportunity to expand in the international area would be equally or if not more appealing.
So that’s kind of some of the things if you look back at the SKIPPY transaction that’s really what we got with that so certainly looking for some of that.
As far as transactions where there has been a lot of them some expected some unexpected.
So I would say there’s probably some divesting of orphan brands like SKIPPY was and then probably some consolidation so a mixed bag there.
Inc.</strong> And anything that’s of particular interest to you? I have nothing to comment on right now.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Robert Moskow of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
Good morning Robert.
Good morning.
I’m just wondering if you Jody whether you feel like this is the cut-in guidance is it going to be enough? because as I look at the back half of the year the back half still requires quite a bit of operating profit growth in order to be delivered.
You’ve talked about the impact of the PED virus hurting your access to supplies rising costs.
And I think Jeff; I think you said that these price increases will partially mitigate to higher input costs.
So it sounds like the back half is tough.
You have a very tough comp in fourth quarter.
What are the things that are going to help you deliver the back half? Bob I think there are some – certainly some unknowns and we’ve done our best job of making estimates of what those impacts are going to be for us.
I will tell you that the macro industry conditions relating to the hog supplies probably is hitting us a little later than we originally anticipated but we’ve done our best job in factoring that.
We have a few levers we can pull as far as making sure that some of the businesses have the appropriate investments to drive their business.
I guess the only thing that I could add is I mean at a segment level to add to Jody’s comment I mean we think Refrigerated Foods is still in a position to be a strong contributor in Q3 given the delay and impact that we just discussed.
And then by Q4 we expect Jennie-O Turkey Store to be in a position to be providing positive growth because they worked by that time they worked through these weather related issues that we’ve referenced.
Okay.
Is your outlook for Q4 for Jennie-O is it any lighter than it was before or is your fourth quarter the same as it was because before you were talking about fourth quarter being a very strong quarter for turkey.
The only remaining challenge that that group will be confronted with is that the grain picture is not as positive today as it was when the year started.
So then that all comes down to how successful they are at balancing that against other production costs or pricing actions.
but at this point we do expect it to be a very solid quarter for them.
And the spike in commodity turkey prices that happened recently is that a net positive for you in fourth quarter or is it kind of neutral? It’s a positive but it’s not a massive positive and we really don’t sell a lot of commodity turkey meat in the scheme of our overall operation obviously it’s a focus on value-added.
But clearly we would acknowledge that that’s a positive for the group.
Okay.
Thank you I’ll pass it on.
The next question comes from Akshay Jagdale of KeyBanc.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</strong> Good morning.
Hi Akshay.
Inc.</strong>  Hi first question just on SKIPPY.
Can you give us a little bit more color on how the business is performing in the U.S.
and internationally? Sure.
We’re very pleased with how SKIPPY has been performing.
The most recent quarter was a high single-digit sales gain in the U.S.
so that’s very strong.
I think we’re doing that on the basis of some of the distribution gains we’ve referenced in the past and having more effective promotions on the product line.
And then we expect to complement that by fall with a new ad campaign to really kind of again remind the SKIPPY consumers about this great brand.
In terms of the outside of the U.S.
sales I mean we’re just now kind of getting China online in terms of we really don’t have the comps there.
The non-China comps were up as well.
So overall we’re pleased with where SKIPPY is in both the U.S.
and international markets.
Inc.</strong> And just a follow-up to that and more broadly can you give us an update on your marketing plans for this year? You’d started off with a pretty significant increase in marketing and if I remember correctly the budget last year was around $100 million and you were expecting it to be up almost 30% this year.
Can you just give us an update and let us know if anything has changed per se in that particular plan? Yes.
we do expect to still have a significant increase year-over-year in terms of our marketing spend.
It won’t probably be at the 30% level it may be more like 15% to 20%.
For example we’ll be coming out a little bit later with the SKIPPY campaign.
We really want to make sure we got the messaging right and we think the timing it to the back-to-school time is more effective than say an earlier summer launch so that is one budgetary change we’ve made.
But overall we do expect to be in the kind of might be the 115 to 120 range in terms of those expenditures.
Inc.</strong> But there the only change here is you sort of delayed some of the investments on SKIPPY it’s a timing issue correct? Well SKIPPY I mean once we do come out with it we’ll certainly put a solid effort against an effort that will then overlap into fiscal 2015.
So yes there is a timing change at least in relation to SKIPPY.
Inc.</strong> Okay and just on this commodity cost pressure issue and your view that it’s temporary can you give us a little bit more color on what product categories and more importantly from a modeling perspective I mean where does that flow through? It seems like Grocery Product is probably the division that’s hit the most by it but you also have a significant value added presence in Refrigerated.
So can you give us a sense as sort of where you’re seeing more of the weakness from a segment perspective? And then just a little bit more color in terms of what products are getting impacted and are you taking more pricing now and as such when that flows through the margins should normalize? Actually I would agree with the characterization that I think the Grocery group probably has the most franchises that are impacted by what the cost pressures we’re experiencing right now.
Our outlook would be that when it comes to say the pork prices that we do think this will – it’ll be several month process but we don’t think there’s been a systemic change in the cost picture in the pork industry.
The beef price increases everybody kind of saw coming and certainly is a little bit more of a systemic challenge I think in the long run they are expecting to build beef herds back but that’s not going to happen overnight.
We mentioned avocados pressures those are kind of related to the drought in California although we don’t source significant avocados from California.
It is a Global Market ultimately and so when those supplies tighten up or expected to tighten up when prices go up we’ve experienced cost increases even from our supplies in Mexico Peru and Chile as well.
We clearly the value-added items within the Refrigerated Foods group are also being impacted by the cost increases.
Our Foodservice team has been more successful to date in adjusting pricing to match up against new cost reality but our retail Meat Products group is catching up and should be in a position to be back in a balance before the year is over.
Inc.</strong> So just to be clear what changed internally from an input cost and sort of margin expectation? Is it just that the cost escalated more than you were expecting and as such there’s just a lag or is it that the pricing is not as effective and that is not you’re unable to pass it through? It’s really on the cost side.
We talked about the impact of our operations in terms of the sort of expected four-day work week in June in Fremont and so clearly from a hog intake standpoint that we’re expecting the impact to our organization to be sort of kind of late third quarter early fourth quarter.
But the price impact of what’s going on in the country in terms of pork supplies was very pronounced during the second quarter and very sharp and that’s always probably the hardest scenarios when we get a quick deep increase in cost.
Trim costs selling costs you name it they’ve rocketed up and those have been very difficult to price against.
Inc.</strong> Just one last one for Jody.
Can you give us a little bit color into the cash balance that went down pretty significantly this quarter? It seemed like it was working capital related but it was a little bit unusual at least from my expectations.
Was that something you were expecting or can you give us a little bit more color into what drove that? Sure you’re right.
Working capital was a big use of cash for the quarter.
We saw a pretty significant inventory build part of that was driven by just those rapidly rising costs that were going into our products so not necessarily more tonnage but higher costs.
And then also driven by I think some of the comments that we’ve made about preparing for these potential holes in the hogs where we’re taking certain of our valued primals and having them be in storage so we have enough supply for later.
So those would be the biggest drivers on the inventory.
We did see a reduction in our payables specifically related to the timing of the tax payment.
So that was expected.
And then really from a free cash flow standpoint our CapEx spending is up year-over-year and that as we messaged even from the beginning of the fiscal year we’re making certain investments in productivity improvements we have new vendoring operation that’s kind of just the cost of doing business that will be much more efficient with that.
And then adding some capacities certainly the new bacon one product resulted in some expenditures to get that product launched so a mix of some not repair and maintenance but ongoing upgrades to existing facilities as well as some new expansions.
So those would be the biggest.
I would expect by the end of the year that we will get our inventories down at some more normalized levels but really trying to work through these difficult times that we’re expecting.
Inc.</strong> Thank you.
I’ll pass it on.
The next question comes from Adam Samuelson of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Yes thank you.
Good morning.
Maybe first to kind of get a little bit more on the PED side just trying to get a sense of if the impact of summary you announced the closing of our reduced work weeks in one of your plants.
If the impact is as you expected it would be if it’s been more pronounced and a longer tail and characterize how the evolution of PED has shaped up relative to your expectations.
Okay.
For our operations Adam it came a little bit more slowly than maybe we had originally feared but clearly at this point based on our conversations with the producers with whom we have contracts we expect tightened numbers now for the summer and that’s what led us to go at our four day work week.
Clearly a number of other processes in the industry had already made that move.
There were other regions of the country where the impact of the illness that hit earlier and so I think their tightening of numbers had already occurred.
The other thing that everyone in the industry is monitoring is sort of is the recovery side from it and I think everyone would tell you at this point it’s not a 100% recovery yet.
That’s what you seek to accomplish when you have an outbreak like this but the entities that once they’ve kind of had the exposure to it and they get back into operation they are not in many cases hitting the 100% level and so that’s a little bit of a wildcard for us as we head into the latter part of the year or even early next year in terms of what kind of numbers we might see.
Got it and so it’s really at this point too early to think about how long this tail can be your discussions with your suppliers for the next few months will be the big determination on what the pork supply looks like in the first half of your fiscal 2015? Yes definitely an impact into Q4 but yes kind of early to tell for 2015.
Okay and that’s helpful.
And then maybe switching gears following-up on Farha’s question obviously your balance sheet is a great asset and in a great position; however with the ownership of the foundation where it is it kind of constrains you a little bit in your capital allocation.
Can you talk about any perspective repurchases of shares from the foundation or there would be any authority or interest in that regard to just give you a more balanced more flexible capital allocation process? Well that would obviously be up to the foundation if their interest is in selling any shares.
We certainly do have authorization that would allow us to do any repurchases of shares.
We made some small purchases during the quarter and we continue to assess what our expected uses for cash flow are and balance that with what kind of ROI we get on the investment and our internal stocks.
So I’m not in control of what the foundation wants to do with their shares.
All right fair enough I’ll pass it on.
Thanks very much.
The next question comes from Diane Geissler of CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Hi Diane.
I wanted to ask about the turkey business.
Is there any way to quantify what you think the impact of some of these sort of I guess call them one-off really terrible winter in the propane prices spiking.
I’m assuming that you had hedges in place but that maybe you came under like a force Majeure where your suppliers said that we don’t have it and therefore you have to go on to the spot market was that a factor? And then I guess you said 22 weeks so should we assume it will impact your margins all the way into the first quarter of 2015 or do you think that it will be limited to 2014? Well on the propane side yes we did have some forward positions in place and yes we did get impacted by force Majeure clauses as they had pipeline issues and other issues this winter so that was – that certainly exacerbated an already difficult situation when it came to just share market pricing because we don’t forward by all of it clearly.
so we did have to scramble and cover some of that on the open market.
In terms of your second question on timing 22 weeks but the bite from the winter really obviously took place in the primary winter months kind of December January and February even maybe a little March.
So now we don’t – we really don’t expect the impact from that to trail all the way into our fiscal 2015 in fact even by the Q4 we should be in a better position when it comes to that impact.
Can you quantify the propane impact just in terms of if it had been delivered on a hedged basis versus you buying in the spot market? I really can’t give you that detail.
I can give you that just in terms of this overall for Jennie-O we provided guidance at the beginning of the year that we really had expected and hoped that Jennie-O would be in a growth position really frankly quarter-after-quarter in fiscal 2015 and you can see from the results that what’s happened is it’s been basically flat where it’s not like we lost a lot of ground they still have really solid operating margins but as basically propane is one of the deltas that have driven it from a good gain to flat.
But there’s other ones such as the feed not being quite as favorable as we thought that has been a factor as well.
Okay.
Can I just ask what you’ve actually communicated to your employees at the plant for furloughs like how long they should expect to be furloughed or has it ended? Okay.
so we just did that this morning.
So we wanted to be on a consistent basis with public information talking to them about an impact starting in June.
We talked about being closed on Fridays within that plant depending on the hog flow in a given week; there may be opportunities to make up some additional hours on the Monday through Thursday schedule.
The summer in the past has sometimes been a time where people are looking to take vacation or you have some scheduling differentials anyway.
so what we’ve said is kind of indefinite.
We certainly anticipate that it will certainly last at least a couple of months but we’ll just kind of have to see on a rolling basis as to when we think we have the numbers back to be in a position to restore that plant to full hours.
Okay thank you.
The next question comes from Eric Larson of C.L King.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</strong> Good morning everyone.
Hi Eric.
Inc.</strong> I have a very specific Jennie-O question and it relates to your energy issues up there.
I know there are a number of sort of natural gas pipeline projects going on in Wisconsin.
and I don’t know if you’re anywhere close to any of those gas lines that you could potentially put the CapEx into and convert your grow-up facilities from propane to natural gas.
Is there any distinct possibility that something like that could happen where you wouldn’t then have to be so tied into specifically propane? It’s a great question Eric and indeed the team is actively pursuing that.
We actually were pursuing it even before the propane shortage just because natural gas was looking attractive obviously at a time before that.
It’s a somewhat gradual conversion for us just fairly in-depth process we’re on kind of a maybe 20 farm a year schedule in order looking at a conversion in that regard.
so there won’t be an immediate solution to anything but definitely a good point there in terms of a better long-term position for those facilities.
Inc.</strong> Okay good.
I’m glad to hear that you’re actually within striking distance where you can actually do some conversions which over the long run it’s easier to hedge natural gas and everything else and I think it would be a lot more reliable supply.
The second follow-on question that I have when you talk about the favorable turkey commodity markets and I know that you have moved a tremendous amount of your volume away from those commodity markets into your further value add is that still in general can that be a significant swing factor quarter-to-quarter as to the performance of the commodity markets? Yes I mean it’s still relevant.
I mean we certainly still sell a number of the dark meat items on a commodity basis either in international marketplaces or in some cases to other manufactures.
so I don’t want to discount and pretend that that’s not a factor at all.
It definitely can be a relatively big swing but clearly the emphasis for Jennie-Our the 75% to 80% of the portfolio are the value-added items and we’ve really taken pains to try to match up our overall production within the system to those value-added items.
The fact that we were short weights this last quarter again kind of dampened our ability to take advantage of those commodity markets on a more broad basis because again we needed to grab as many pounds as possible to make sure we were supporting the value-added items.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Sachin Shah of Albert Fried.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
I just want to talk to you about your kind of acquisition strategy.
There has been kind of a lot of speculation out there what companies you may be interested or not interested in so maybe you can just highlight maybe in a summary of just your acquisition kind of strategy and what you guys are looking for to deploy capital.
I think Jody addressed that earlier.
I mean we clearly have been active in the acquisition community over the last dozen years completing over $2 billion worth of deals that have helped the growth of our company.
We clearly are in a position we have the financial wherewithal and I think the team capabilities to do other deals in terms of general spaces I mean you can get online this afternoon and watch the Bank of Montreal conference and we’ll have a slide in our deck that talks about different areas where we’ve made acquisitions in the past.
But we really don’t provide any specificity about potential targets going forward and that’s something that the team keeps on a proprietary basis.
Okay.
Any just maybe follow-up comment on the deal activity in the space right now I’ve seen a few transactions already in 2014.
So just maybe some color on your thoughts on what that means for the sector industry and use specifically.
Yes.
I don’t know that I have a perspective that would be any better than an investor who is following the space.
Clearly there have been some deals announced recently.
I’ve been in the shop now nine years and there has been an ebb and flow of deal during that whole timeframe there’s fairly notable changes in the industry I think that’s just part of what happens in modern business.
But I guess I don’t have any specific perspective to offer you at this point.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
(Operator Instructions) There are no further questions.
Are there any other points you wish to raise? No thank you.
I just want to thank everyone for joining us on the call today and we will be holding a webcast later of our presentation today at 4 P.M.
Eastern.
Thank you.
This concludes the second quarter earnings call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Hormel Foods’ Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I’d like to turn the conference over to Jana Haynes Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Hormel Foods’ conference call for the third quarter of fiscal 2014.
We released our results this morning before the market opened around 6:30 A.M.
Eastern Time.
If you did not receive a copy of the release you can find it on our website at www.hormelfoods.com under the Investors section.
On our call today is Jeff Ettinger Chairman of the Board President and Chief Executive Officer; and Jody Feragen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jeff will provide a review of the operating results for the quarter.
Then Jody will provide detailed financial results for the quarter.
The line will be open for questions following Jody’s remarks.
As a courtesy to the other analysts please limit yourself to one question with one follow-up.
If you have additional questions you’re welcome to get back in the queue.
The audio replay of this call will be available beginning at 11:00 A.M.
Central Time today August 21 2014.
The dial-in number is 888-203-1112 and the access code is 2700055.
The audio replay will also be posted to our website and archived for one year.
Before we get started with the results of the quarter I need to reference to the Safe Harbor statements.
Some of the comments made today will be forward-looking and are made under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the statements we will be making.
Among the factors that may affect the operating results of the company are fluctuations in the costs and availability of raw materials and market conditions for finished products.
Please refer to pages 32 through 38 regarding forward-looking statements and risk factors in the company’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 27 2014 for more details.
It can be accessed on our website.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Jana.
We announced record third quarter earnings this morning of $0.51 per share up 21% over the last year.
Operating profit increased by 23%.
We also achieved record sales of $2.3 billion an increase of 6% over the last year with a 1% volume decline.
The resiliency of our balanced business model was evidenced this quarter by our ability to deliver sales and earnings growth in a highly elevated input cost environment with three of our five segments registering profit gains.
I will now take you through each segment.
Our Grocery Products segment profit decreased 36% and sales were down 3%.
Pricing actions taken earlier this year on our core canned meat and microwave meal items slowed sales of these products.
Record high beef pork and chicken input costs also significantly impacted margins.
The center of the store has become a more challenging environment for many food categories.
We have some franchises such as our Dinty Moore stew and Compleats microwave meals that appeared to be affected as well.
However we have several items positioned in the center of the store that continue to grow even in this more difficult time such as SKIPPY peanut butter Hormel bacon toppings and the HERDEZ line of salsas and sauces within our MegaMex Foods joint venture.
We will continue to build on the momentum of the SKIPPY peanut butter brand with national advertising during the back-to-school season this fall after many years off air.
Segment operating profit for the Refrigerated Foods group was up 101%.
The large increase was driven by beneficial pork operating margins which were stronger than expected and growth of retail and foodservice value added products.
Pork cutout values remained unseasonably high this summer which more than offset record high hog costs.
At the end of the quarter we had anticipated volatility in the Refrigerated Foods segment due to tight hog supply but our team did an excellent job by curing hogs and managing inventories to support growth of our key franchises.
As part of the preparation for low hog availability we’ve reduced our Fremont Nebraska harvest operation to four days per week through most of the summer.
We have recently returned to a normalized schedule.
Dollar sales for Refrigerated Foods increased 12% led by retail sales of our Hormel Black Label bacon Hormel REV Snack Wraps and LLOYD’S ribs.
We also enjoyed sales growth in our foodservice business including such items as our Hormel FIRE BRAISED Meats Hormel Bacon 1 fully cooked bacon and Hormel fully cooked sausage.
Segment volume was flat compared to last year driven by lower commodity sales as we have increased internal utilization of raw materials in our value-added products along with higher pricing on key retail items to mitigate margin exposure.
Our Refrigerated Foods team launched distribution of Hormel REV A.M.
Breakfast REVs this quarter.
We introduced four varieties each with flatbread egg cheese and breakfast meat.
Jennie-O Turkey Store delivered a segment profit increase of 42% driven by value-added sales growth strong turkey commodity pricing and beneficial grain input costs.
The last of the flocks impacted by the harsh winter weather and elevated fuel cost moved through our system during the quarter.
Segment dollar sales rose 4% on a volume decline of 2%.
High turkey commodity prices more than offset lower volumes driven by the timing of whole bird sales in the retail channel.
Sales of our value-added items experienced nice growth this quarter led by our Jennie-O Turkey Store ground turkey items which continued to benefit from our turkey taco advertising campaign won earlier this year.
Value-added products in our foodservice and deli lines also drove sales growth.
Our Specialty Foods segment reported an operating profit decrease of 25% and a sales decrease of 10% largely resulting from the expiration of the agreement in July 2013 allowing Diamond Crystal Brands to sell certain sugar substitutes into foodservice trade channels.
This is the final quarter of challenging comparisons related to the expiration of this agreement.
We completed the acquisition of CytoSport Holdings on August 11 2014 and welcome the team to Hormel Foods.
We look forward to realizing the synergies between CytoSport and our existing protein-rich sports nutrition operations and applying our innovation capabilities to maximize the potential of the Muscle Milk brand in the fast-growing sports nutrition space.
Our international and other segment profit increased 12% and sales grew 18%.
results were led by strong sales from our Beijing and Shanghai facilities into the foodservice channel along with the addition of the SKIPPY business within China.
exports of our SPAM family of products were impacted by high input costs during the quarter.
as we move into the fourth quarter we expect elevated meat input cost to continue to squeeze margins on certain of our value-added products especially in our Grocery Products segment.
Pork operating margins will likely remain seasonably positive this fall as hog cost began to moderate with better supply but difficult comparisons to last year will minimize this factor for our Refrigerated Food segment in Q4.
We expect our Jennie-O Turkey Store segment to finish the year strong with value-added sales growth continued high turkey commodity prices and beneficial grain markets.
Specialty Foods has lapped the expiration of it sugar substitute contract and should return to year-over-year growth in the fourth quarter.
CytoSport results will also be included for Q4 increasing revenues for the segment but not materially impacting earnings net of the acquisition closing cost.
We look for our International &amp; Other segment to continue to drive growth led by our China operations and SKIPPY peanut butter export business offset in part by high U.S.
meat input costs impacting exports of our fresh pork and SPAM family of products in the near-term.
Taking all of these significant factors into account we are maintaining our fiscal 2014 guidance range of $2.17 to $2.27 per share.
At this time I will turn the call over to Jody Feragen to discuss the financial information relating to the third quarter.
Thank you Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
Earnings for the third quarter of fiscal 2014 rose 21% to $138 million or $0.51 per share compared to $113.6 million or $0.42 per share a year ago.
Dollar sales for the third quarter totaled $2.28 billion compared to $2.16 billion last year a 6% increase.
Volume for the third quarter was 1.17 billion pounds down 1% from the same period last year.
Selling general and administrative expenses in the third quarter were 6.7% of sales versus 7% last year.
For the full year we expect selling general and administrative expenses to be about 7.1% to 7.3% of sales.
Equity in earnings of affiliates was $3.5 million in the third quarter versus $1.3 million last year.
The increase is largely due to the improved performance at our MegaMex Foods joint venture.
Advertising expense for the quarter was $21.1 million compared to $22.4 million last year.
Interest expense for the quarter was $3.1 million unchanged from last year.
We expect interest expense to be about $12 million to $14 million for fiscal 2014.
Our effective tax rate in the third quarter was 34.7% versus 35.7% in fiscal 2013.
For fiscal 2014 we expect the effective tax rate to be about 34.5%.
The basic weighted average number of shares outstanding for the third quarter was $264 million.
The diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding for the third quarter was $270.4 million.
We repurchased 267 000 shares of common stock during the third quarter spending about $13 million.
we have 8.9 million shares remaining to be purchased under the current authorization in place.
Depreciation and amortization for the quarter was $33.5 million versus $31.8 million last year.
We expect depreciation and amortization to be about a $130 million in fiscal 2014.
Total long-term debt at the end of the quarter was $250 million unchanged from last year.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $34.8 million up $11.5 million over the last year.
For fiscal 2014 we expect capital expenditures to be approximately $150 million.
As Jeff indicated we closed on the acquisition of CytoSport Holdings using available cash and a portion of our $300 million credit revolver to fund the $450 million acquisition.
We expect to repay the credit revolver by the end of fiscal 2014.
At this time I will turn the call over to the operator for the question-and-answer portion of the call.
Danny? Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll take our first question from Farha Aslam with Stephens Inc.
Inc.</strong> Hi good morning.
Hi Farha.
Inc.</strong> Congratulations for a great quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Inc.</strong> We’ve noticed a lot of variation between divisions in terms of performance and so just starting with Grocery Products those earnings were very impacted with the higher commodity cost.
How do you think that recovery goes and when do you think earnings can get back to flat year-over-year and back into growth?  Obviously Grocery Products was the one hit hardest by the input cost environment during the quarter.
We expect the fourth quarter to be still negative year-over-year but not to the depth we’re reporting here today.
Now we’re not in a position to give 2015 guidance here but the long-term – our long-term outlook for the Grocery division is that it should be able to drive growth.
We have some excellent franchises still within that business such as all our Mexican Foods businesses as well as SKIPPY and SPAM continues to have general strength on a long-term basis.
So we’ll provide more specific guidance on the next call in terms of what 2015 will look like that we should start trending in the positive direction.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then a question really on MegaMex I mean earnings in that business almost tripled.
What is the trend? How should we think about that business going forward and what’s driving the improvement? Well Q3 last year I mean to be fair we had a fairly significant hit remember we announced in terms of the added earn out on the fresh foods component and so in terms of comparison that that was an easier comparison if you will for the MegaMex group.
They’ve had some costs squeeze within their group as well frankly both on the Don Miguel side and in terms of the avocado based products.
Avocado costs seem to be normalizing and so and the top line is excellent in terms of the Wholly Guacamole franchise so we’re encouraged and excited about that and the HERDEZ brand is very strong and we just continue to rack up double-digit of top line increases for the variety items sold under that authentic Mexican brand.
So overall MegaMex is a key component not only to the Grocery Products but to the total company period on trend products and we think that’ll continue to deliver growth for us.
Inc.</strong> Great.
Thank you so much.
We’ll take our next question from Ken Zaslow with BMO Capital Markets.
Hey good morning everyone.
Hey Ken.
Good morning.
So one strategy question Hormel has been very successful of gaining outside market shares in niche categories that’s kind of your – over the last decade or so.
You moved into SKIPPY obviously you made a bid for Ragu.
Could you think – and any of this performance you see what you are doing here the success has been always in your niche categories.
Do you think that you are starting to move away from that and do you think that’s a good thing or bad thing? Can you talk about that and then I have a follow-up.
Sure.
I don’t think we are moving away from that Ken.
I mean I think what we are doing if you look at the core portfolio Hormel Foods clearly started in 1891 as a pork company and so our Mexican Food franchise were trying to get more aggressive in the health and wellness area with Jennie-O and Natural Choice.
We’ve had identified that we really thought we needed to provide more on the go offerings and so hence our innovation with REV that was a big motivator frankly behind the MUSCLE MILK acquisition was that – people are viewing those items in many cases as meal replacements consumed on-the-go.
And so again we are looking in most cases for leading share brands that we can drive with our marketing and hopefully operate on an efficient basis.
Okay my follow-up question what would limit the Turkey margins from moving up from this 17% – 16.9% or 17% level going forward it seems like this quarter kind of as represented what the future will look like if not even better is there something that I’m missing here?  Yes sure Ken.
This is Jody.
I think the environment that the Turkey operations are operating under with industry conditions and the shortages we’re seeing some pretty favorable commodity pricing I’ll stick to that normalized range that we’ve given in the past.
So you don’t think 17% is the right level to move – am I miss understanding you? Well I mean – I don’t know if you are looking for a long-term number or a short-term number as mentioned earlier we’re not going to give 2015 number here today.
But it would be fair to layout; obviously what’s going on in the marketplace as we head into 2015 could well be in a market where the commodities are little less favorable.
But I’m recognizing that the grain markets could be more favorable and so we’ll just see what that – when we provide that guidance in November.
Okay very helpful.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Inc.</strong>  Good morning and congratulations on a good quarter.
Thank you Akshay.
Inc.</strong>  So can you give us an update on REV the AM Wraps you are launching I guess am I correct in understanding that the difference there is you’ve added the sort of the egg component to it.
So can you talk a little bit about why now with the AM Wraps instead of overall how is REV doing relative to your expectation? Sure Akshay.
So I mean I know on past quarters I was – I provided some estimates based on some of the early tracking with the brand we’re now in a position where we have 52 weeks of scanned data available the sales on that basis were on $55 million on the last 52-week basis that does not count sales into the college and university or convenience store channels that’s a little bit more the lion shares through the Grocery channel.
We’re very happy with those that’s one of our best ever first-year performances on our brand.
We think the brand has upside in terms of its sales capabilities beyond that even with the core items and then as you point out on top of that we are introducing the breakfast items.
a part of it is just kind of coming out with the core line first a part of it is making through that you have the product ready and performing the way you want I’m actually really quite excited and pleased with the team coming out with a year later if you contrast it for example to our complete line and it took a several years to get a breakfast offering that was the right offering within that product line.
Right now we’re focusing our attention on these breakfast related items on customers that already have a pretty good set of REV items.
There are certain customers that really do have that in place other certain regions of the country and certain retailers that’s still spottier or maybe they only carry three or four or five items.
In those cases we’re probably saying that we may not want to come right out with two or three breakfast items until you settle little more legitimately.
But we do think breakfast revenue is another excellent innovation that will drive new consumption to this product line and we’ll continue to excite consumers who like the REV line.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just on SKIPPY give us an update especially on the International operations you talked about it a little bit but given what happened in the grocery segment this quarter it would be nice if you could sort of tell us if SKIPPY was impacted by any of that doesn’t seem like it.
And then more importantly can you give us a little bit more color on the Cyto acquisition and strategically sort of longer term how that fits in and what kind of growth profile you expect from that? Thank you and I’ll get back in queue.
Okay.
SKIPPY we’re very pleased with the domestic results for SKIPPY on a net sales basis lesser because of – that was a category that saw price decreases.
But a volume high single-digit increase in volume still continuing to get good future activity we’ve had some nice placements in terms of distribution sales there.
And we’re going to work on innovating within the category our SKIPPY Singles are off to a good start the dark chocolate natural item is doing well; also and look for more items in 2015 maybe more in the middle of the year for that.
On an international basis it’s still a little rocky to read.
I mean it was positive in the sense that we obviously now own the China plant and all the production out of that plant is now being reflected in the sales.
We saw a little bit of decline in business in Canada.
And we also – in a couple of the Asian markets we’re still on kind of a conversion mode between our ownership and the prior ownership in terms of who has got the distribution and so forth.
But overall I mean that plant is in a good position to support growth and we expect to have that be a real growth catalyst for international going forward.
On CytoSport we were obviously very excited last time we’re on the phone with all of you was in the middle of the quarter when we made the announcement related to the deal we did close on that deal recently.
A couple of follow-up questions that had kind of emerged just even since we announced the deal related to the kind of this notion of all what does Hormel bring to the party when it comes to the Muscle Milk acquisition.
So I did want to address that.
We have knowledge of manufacturing and of the category that perhaps has been overlooked a little bit I mean our Specialty Foods group is a less branded group and so sometimes doesn’t get talked about quite as much but we’ve been manufacturing both powdered and ready-to-drink protein items for over 10 years with our Century Foods business unit that’s under Specialty Foods indeed to us.
This was a great opportunity to bring a branded catalyst for that group to build apply that knowledge the way we do in the rest of our companies to a branded item.
We feel we’re going to be able to bring deeper sales and category management skills to the largest market for this product line which is the food drug and mass market where we sell so many of our other items.
And really I mean anytime you’re bringing a product line that’s frankly kind of a one-off product line a single brand and bringing it to a portfolio where you have deeper relationships at least we found that we should be able to drive growth doing that we certainly did that with Wholly Guacamole for one example and we should do that here.
We also feel our innovation track record bodes well in terms of coming up with great new items that would fit under this brand.
We’re very early on; the category growth that we’re looking at is still very significant.
as we mentioned on the last call our feeling and even the prior management were kind of conceded us there was prior a little bit of lack of focus as they were in the sale process of the business.
and so their share has not quite kept up with all the category growth but notwithstanding that I mean it still grew in terms of both the ready-to-drink components the big Muscle Milk branded presence as well as the full protein line.
And so it should be a great growth catalyst for Specialty Foods and for Hormel going forward.
Inc.</strong> Thanks a lot.
that’s excellent.
Our next question comes from Diane Geissler with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Hi Diane.
Congratulations on your quarter.
I wanted to ask you about the outlook which you maintained your guidance it seems like an awfully wide range for having normally one quarter left in the year.
and I just wanted to make sure that that wasn’t sending us a signal about one area of your business team potentially problematic.
I know the hog numbers have come down pretty significantly but it sounds like you are finding adequate supply in the fact that you’ve reopened your plant the one that you have curtailed those.
There is something we need to be aware of as we move through the fourth quarter that’s kind of giving you pause and making you keep that that wide of a range for the fourth quarter?  So Diane as we were sitting down this time for – at the end of our second quarter there we certainly did not expect the type of positive pork operating margins that we experienced in the third quarter.
So I would say that’s probably one thing that would lead us to have a somewhat wider range there going into the fourth quarter but certainly feel more comfortable that we are in the middle range of that guidance instead of the lower end that we’ve guided to at the end of the second quarter.
Okay all right.
Well that’s fair enough.
And then I wanted to follow up on Jeff’s comments about the acquisition.
so you guys have obviously signaled that you are looking to do bigger deals I think you’ve made sort of more aggressive comments at your Analyst Day last year after doing the SKIPPY transaction about big deals small deals take as much time and kind of management time as little deals do but if I heard you correctly Jody you basically used your big pile of cash and your revolver which will be paid out by the end of this fiscal year.
So if you kind of rate back where you started from which is significantly under our balance sheet.
So the question is really more do you think that you could do another sizable transaction here in the near-term and then would it be a drain on the organization’s ability to kind of integrate or do you feel like you need to give the CytoSport acquisition kind of time to get integrated before you could go out and make another sizable transaction?  Diane you are right.
from a financial perspective we certainly have the bandwidth to do another acquisition.
And I think from organizational resource perspective we also have the ability especially foods might have trouble doing another one right on top of this but we certainly would have the ability to do it from an organizational perspective.
It’s finding the right transaction that has the strategic fit that has the number one or number two brand looking for something that is accretive to our margins and where we can really add some values.
so something that has non-U.S.
portion of the business is also very attractive.
So we just need to find the right set and certainly I believe our organization is ready to step up and do that.
Can I just ask a – sorry expected to follow up to that comment that’s sort of accretive to your margin but you’re talking about accretive to your margins are on the whole or just within the segment in which year?  We look generally…  Making acquisition.
The first step is segment but with the ability to become accretive to the overall Hormel margins.
Okay.
All right great.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead sir.
Your line is open.
Hi thank you.
I guess two questions.
One is everyone thought that the PED virus was going to have a negative impact eventually on packing margins and it really hasn’t are we thinking now that there is not going to be any negative impact on those processing margins? And then secondly Grocery margins I get it that the protein inflation flowed through here and hurt the margin but I guess there’s a little surprise that SKIPPY didn’t stabilize the business enough to kind of keep them from going into single-digit.
Our SKIPPY’s margins lower than the margins in the rest of Grocery and is that also an impact for why margins are lower?  Well I think I’ll take the first part of your question regarding the pork margins.
I think what the unexpected on result that we saw in the third quarter was that demands continue to hold up to cut out value.
So we’ve really had anticipated the hog prices to rise like they did.
But then the final portions also seem to be supported by that.
We are looking to continue to see that positive thread but we are up against some pretty positive thread from the fourth quarter of last year.
So don’t expect that to have a significant impact on the Refrigerated Foods segment in the fourth quarter.
So on the Grocery side SKIPPY’s margins should be accretive ultimately for the Grocery Products group and are currently.
that being said I mean probably the highest profitability element of the Grocery Products portfolio is the canned meat area and that’s the area where we clearly saw the biggest squeeze during the quarter brought in part by the prior price increase that we’ve taken based on just kind of long-term increases in the raw materials.
and then when you add to it despite from PED in terms of the input cost on hog.
I mean that really hurt their ability ultimately that deliver margin.
So that’s what needed to cover that’s what to the earlier question I mean we’ll start seeing some recovery in that Q4 but not all of it and we have some of the inventories already put up with higher cost and so forth but heading in the future we do expect that to normalize.
And Jeff what is going to cause it to normalize? Do you need the protein prices to fall because it sounds like you already to pricing earlier in the year? Do you have to take it again or are you waiting for the protein to fall? That’s well I mean I guess waiting for that in the sense that we didn’t feel we’ll show it or we are in a very good position to take second pricing based off of a spike.
if these inputs have become the new norm we always do it and have to reevaluate that but a lot of these input costs are already down also really significantly even in the last couple of weeks.
So I mean we do think that’s what PED cost it didn’t end up hurting the processing margins but it did end up driving very significant increases in inputs that we didn’t still think we could price against and we don’t hopefully involve and we don’t feel we’ll have to because we do think those are going to come back to a more normal level.
Just a last question one of the concerns I hear a lot from investors about the process food industry in general is that people are paying more and more attention to help in wellness and especially in the meals part of the store like convenient meals.
And I mean I will take the view that Dinty Moore and chili and SPAM are kind of our own niche businesses but microwavable meals like shelf-stable microwavable meals I think are – could be just off trend.
Do you have any view on the long-term for Compleats and what your strategy for investment there is? So I mean we had obviously enjoyed very significant growth in the Compleats line during the 2000 decade almost right to the end of it.
and then clearly the product line has stagnated somewhat since then one effort to try to attract new consumers and restore growth had been the notion of kind of going after the more health oriented consumer or a looking for higher end items and hence the introduction of our blue and green labeled subcomponents are complete.
No.
I think we’ve conceded here in recent calls that really doesn’t seem to be working.
I mean the consumer that really enjoys these types of items is looking for more of a basic meat potato casserole type item value is a very important element to this franchise and so as you kind of add more bills and vessels in cost to product that that doesn’t seem to resonate well with the consumer.
So we do believe we can get kind of go back to the basics and get this product line stabilized whether it’s going to be a big growth catalyst for grocery products anymore.
I mean at this point I guess we’re not seeing that but we think between Mexican Foods SKIPPY and some of the other items grocery should be able to meet their growth objectives using those items but I think your overall take is correct.
My understanding know when it comes to single-serve meals that especially even if you look in the frozen segment which has also suffered.
Even the health and wellness oriented items and frozen aren’t doing all that well.
So I do think it maybe a combination of – where consumers are looking for items but also just kind of shear economic and who is getting hit the worst from that.
That would make – I would agree with you that frozen isn't doing well either in that area.
But I was focusing on your shelf-stable part of it because that’s really where you play.
Totally make sense.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll take our next question from Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Inc.</strong>  Thanks for taking the follow-up.
The first one is for Jody.
Can you talk a little bit about the corporate expense line item this quarter? It was significantly higher than the run rate that we've seen in the past.
Does that include charges for the Cyto deal?  Not really those will get in our fourth quarter and we’ll show up in the Specialty Foods segment lines.
General corporate expenses really impacted this quarter by some employee related costs as well as the write-off of a bad debt.
Those will be the two biggest things so we’ll see the transaction cost in the next quarter.
Inc.</strong>  How much of that would be sort of one-time like the bad debt write-off seems unusual right? I mean would you say first of all – sorry?  That was about $4 million.
Inc.</strong>  Okay.
It would hopefully be a one-time thing Akshay.
Inc.</strong> Yes.
And just going back to the PED virus from my recollection and just talking to others in the industry I mean this quarter was the quarter where you expected the most impact on supply.
It doesn’t seem like it translated into any volume declines in Refrigerated Foods.
Can you help us with how many hogs you process? I mean we’re thinking the industry would see 6% to 7% lower hog supplies.
Does that just not materialize or can you give us a sense of what’s happening there with supply?  I think you can get a follow-up with Jana on the specifics with the industry numbers but the amount of hogs being processed has increased week-over-week.
The trouble is we’re looking at some significant numbers from last year so the year-over-year comparisons are still going to be down probably until the October timeframe.
We – our team has just indicated has done a super job of making sure that we have had the supply and we are now back up to normalized operations a lot of the hog numbers that we’re down were being offset by higher rates as well.
So impact of the total industry isn’t down as much as I think people originally anticipated certainly helped by a summer that’s been much cooler than normal and that allowed the hogs to put on the extra weight.
Inc.</strong>  Okay.
and just one last one on the guidance range being as wide as it is first does it include these charges that you expect or the Cyto deal and if you can give us the order of magnitude that will be helpful and then just secondly I mean you cited our margins that has been a main reason for your conservative approach there.
What I can tell I mean margins so far have held pretty steady relative to the quarter you just reported.
So is there something else that we should be thinking off when we are looking at that $0.10 range which is unusual?  Okay.
the first comment regarding the titles for the expenses as we indicated on the call when we announced the transactions we would expect that any income from that operation would be – would offset the transaction costs.
so those should be a net neutral in the Specialty Foods segment.
Pork margins are being maintained at the levels that we saw in the third quarter to-date but there has been a lot of volatility.
the comparison that Jeff talked about was to fourth quarter last year and they were unusually strong in our fourth quarter last year.
so that year-over-year comparison for the fourth quarter won’t be as beneficial to Refrigerated Foods as it was in the third quarter.
Inc.</strong>  Okay great.
I’ll pass it on.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) At this time it appears there are no further questions in our queue.
I’d like to turn the conference back over to Jeff Ettinger for any closing additional remarks.
Well thank you.
We are pleased to have achieved another record quarter leveraging our balanced model to deliver consistent earnings growth.
Our team will continue to deliver relevant innovative and high-quality foods to meet the needs of our consumers and to drive long-term growth for our shareholders.
Thank you for joining us today.
As a reminder this does conclude today’s session.
We appreciate everyone’s participation.
Good day and welcome to the Hormel Foods' Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Jana Haynes Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Hormel Foods' conference call for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014.
We released our results this morning before the market opened around 6.30 A.M.
Eastern Time.
If you did not receive a copy of the release you can find it on our Web-site at www.hormelfoods.com under the Investors section.
On our call today is Jeff Ettinger Chairman of the Board President and Chief Executive Officer and Jody Feragen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jeff will provide a review of the operating results for the quarter and the year along with our guidance for fiscal 2015.
Then Jody will provide detailed financial results for the quarter and the year.
The line will be open for questions following Jody's remarks.
As a courtesy to other analysts please limit yourself to one question with one follow-up.
If you have additional queries you are welcome to get back into the queue.
An audio replay of this call will be available beginning at 11.30 A.M.
Central Time today November 25 2014.
The dial-in number is 888-203-1112 and the access code is 9752232.
It will also be posted to our Web-site and archived for one year.
Before we get started with the results of the quarter and the year I need to reference the Safe Harbor statement.
Some of the comments made today will be forward-looking and are made under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the statements we will be making.
Among the factors that may affect the operating results of the Company are fluctuations in costs and availability of raw materials and market conditions for finished products.
Please refer to pages 31 through 37 in the Company's 10-Q for the quarter ended July 27 2014 which was filed on September 5 2014 for more details.
It can be accessed on our Web-site.
Additionally please note the Company uses non-GAAP results to provide investors with a better understanding of the Company's operating performance by excluding the impact of certain non-recurring items affecting comparability.
Discussion on non-GAAP information is detailed in our press release located on our corporate Web-site.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Jana and good morning everyone.
We are pleased to report a strong finish to fiscal 2014.
Earnings in the fourth quarter were a record $0.63 per share up 9% from a year ago on sales of $2.5 billion also a 9% increase.
For the full year the Company earned a record $2.23 per share representing a 14% increase over last year.
We also achieved record sales of $9.3 billion an increase of 6%.
I will now take you through each segment.
In addition to discussing segment results I will also provide an operating profit margin guidance range for each segment which is our estimate of margin potential over the next few years given our current business structure product mix and typical market volatility.
Grocery Products segment profit was down 21% in the fourth quarter with sales down 3%.
High meat input costs and related pricing actions hampered the growth of some of our brands including Hormel chili and Hormel Compleats microwave meals.
On the positive side HORMEL bacon toppings WHOLLY GUACAMOLE dips and HERDEZ authentic Mexican foods grew during the quarter.
For the year segment profit was down 9% and sales were up 3%.
We continue to support our iconic brands.
This year we increased our Grocery Products' advertising spend by over 20%.
At the end of September we kicked off a national SKIPPY peanut butter advertising campaign after many years off air.
Effective at the beginning of fiscal 2015 we will integrate Fresherized Foods the maker of WHOLLY GUACAMOLE into our sales and distribution systems to give this brand the full benefit of our consumer products sales force capabilities.
Going forward we will report 100% of the estimated $200 million in sales in our Grocery Products segment revenue.
We will continue to report only 50% of the Fresherized Foods earnings net of tax in the equity and earnings line of the Grocery Products segment.
Taking into account the addition of WHOLLY GUACAMOLE sales to our Grocery Products segment revenue along with the similar integration of our other MegaMex Foods joint venture businesses in recent years we expect Grocery Products segment operating margins to be within a range of 12% to 14% going forward.
Refrigerated Foods' fourth quarter operating profit increased 10% with sales up 9%.
For the full year operating profit in this segment was up a robust 45% and sales increased 9%.
Pork operating margins were a significant driver to the higher results this quarter.
The Refrigerated Foods team showed impressive leadership by managing through especially volatile market conditions this past year and achieving excellent business results in the face of tight raw material supplies.
Our Foodservice Group continues to deliver growth in our Refrigerated Foods segment with innovative solutions for Foodservice operators.
These include products such as our HORMEL FIRE BRAISED meats and HORMEL Bacon 1 Fully Cooked Bacon along with continued growth of HORMEL fully cooked sausages.
On the retail side of the business the reformulation and packaging updates of our HORMEL side dishes introduced just under a year ago have led to restored sales growth.
HORMEL BLACK LABEL bacon and HORMEL party trays also delivered sales gains this quarter.
Effective at the end of fiscal 2014 we dissolved our Precept Foods partnership by mutual decision with Cargill Meat Solutions.
Sales of $115 million were associated with this business but we do not anticipate a material impact to segment profit as a result of this change.
Given our current product mix and taking commodity volatility risk into account we expect Refrigerated Foods operating profit margins to be within a 5% to 8% range over the next few years.
Jennie-O Turkey Store continues to build momentum delivering increased segment profit of 45% on a sales increase of 11% during the quarter.
For the full year operating profit was up 23% and sales increased 4%.
Results at Jennie-O Turkey Store in the quarter were driven by continued growth in value-added sales along with high commodity turkey prices.
JENNIE-O lean ground turkey and JENNIE-O turkey bacon led sales growth this quarter.
We increased our Jennie-O Turkey Store advertising spend this year with a Make The Switch campaign that started early in fiscal 2014 featuring ground turkey tacos.
We plan to continue this advertising campaign in new U.S.
markets early in fiscal 2015.
We expect Jennie-O Turkey Store segment operating profit margin to be within the 13% to 17% range going forward.
Our Specialty Foods segment reported an operating profit decrease of 14% and a sales increase of 31%.
Excluding sales of CytoSport products sales were down 4%.
Full year results for Specialty Foods showed operating profit down 20% with sales down 3%.
Full year sales excluding CytoSport were down 11%.
We are pleased with our team's initial integration of the CytoSport business as we have started to leverage Hormel Foods strength in operating efficiencies food drug and mass marketing capabilities and purchasing synergies to maximize the potential of this business.
Excluding deal related costs and acquisition adjustments CytoSport performed in line with our expectation this past quarter.
We expect Specialty Foods segment operating profit margins to be within a range of 8% to 11% going forward.
International &amp; Other's fourth quarter operating profit increased 3% with sales up 13%.
Higher meat input costs pressured International segment margins during the quarter.
For the full year operating profit in this segment was up 19% and sales also increased by 19%.
Our International team continues to do an excellent job expanding our business in China.
To support that growth we are announcing the construction of a new Refrigerated Foods plant in China slated to open in the back half of fiscal 2016.
This facility will produce pepperoni bacon ham and other refrigerated meat items sold in the foodservice and retail channels within China.
Our expectation for International segment operating profit margins is a range of 14% to 17% over the next few years.
From a total Company perspective we anticipate operating profit margins in the 9% to 12% range given our current business structure product mix and typical market volatility.
Moving into fiscal 2015 we expect to exceed our stated 5% sales and 10% earnings growth goals.
We look for pork commodity prices and pork operating margins to normalize as the year progresses.
We anticipate commodity pork prices will exhibit some volatility in fiscal 2015 with PEDV still lingering in domestic herds but not to the degree experienced in fiscal 2014.
Lower meat protein prices will eventually provide input cost relief for our Grocery Products segment but will lead to challenging comparisons for our Refrigerated Foods segment.
We plan to increase pork production by 1% to 2% over fiscal 2014 numbers.
Lower corn prices should benefit Jennie-O Turkey Store throughout next year offset to some degree by stubbornly high soymeal cost.
We expect commodity turkey prices to normalize as fiscal 2015 progresses down from the extremely high prices experienced in 2014.
We plan to increase turkey production modestly in fiscal 2015 to support our value-added businesses on the heels of no increase to our production level last year.
In our Specialty Foods segment we continue to expect the CytoSport business to deliver earnings accretion of $0.05 per share in 2015 as disclosed in our acquisition call earlier this summer.
We look for our China business along with our exports of SKIPPY peanut butter and pork products to drive growth in the International segment in fiscal 2015.
We will continue building our brands in 2015 with a double-digit increase in our advertising support over the prior year.
We will focus advertising dollars on our Jennie-O Make The Switch campaign REV snack wraps our SPAM family of products SKIPPY peanut butter and MUSCLE MILK protein rich products.
Late yesterday we informed our team that we will cease operations at our Grocery Products manufacturing facility in Stockton California effective the end of February 2015.
This was a difficult decision but a necessary step given available capacity and other more modern dry grocery facilities in the Company.
We are also considering a potential exit from operations in Vietnam early in fiscal 2015 which have been part of a larger joint venture in the region.
This business which includes hog production feed mill and a processed meats facility all located in Vietnam has not delivered the results we expect from our international investments.
As a result of the closure of the Stockton facility and the potential exit from the Vietnam business we expect nonrecurring expenses of $0.04 to $0.06 per share to impact our profits in the first half of fiscal 2015.
We are providing details about these anticipated nonrecurring items to allow better visibility of our long-term operating performance expectation.
After taking all of these significant factors into account we have established our fiscal 2015 non-GAAP adjusted earnings guidance range at $2.45 to $2.55 per share excluding the expected nonrecurring charges.
Our balanced model continues to benefit our performance as evidenced by our track record of increased earnings in 27 of the last 30 years.
We believe our strong brands in niche categories and our focus on innovation position us to continue to drive superior growth and shareholder value.
At this time I will turn the call over to Jody Feragen to discuss the financial information relating to the fourth quarter and fiscal 2014.
Thank you Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
Net earnings for fiscal 2014 fourth quarter totaled $171.3 million or $0.63 per diluted share compared to $157.3 million or $0.58 per share a year ago.
Net earnings for the 12 months of fiscal 2014 totaled $602.7 million or $2.23 per share compared to net earnings of $526.2 million or $1.95 per share a year ago.
Dollar sales for the fourth quarter totaled $2.5 billion compared to $2.3 billion last year a 9% increase.
For the full year dollar sales were $9.3 billion a 6% increase from last year.
Volume for the fourth quarter was 1.34 billion pounds up 3% from fiscal 2013.
For the full year volume was 5 billion pounds up 1% over last year.
When we announced the acquisition of CytoSport we indicated that the acquisition would have a neutral impact on fiscal 2014 earnings net of transaction costs.
Besides the expected transaction costs of $4.8 million we incurred the fair value inventory adjustment of $4.5 million which negatively impacted the results of our Specialty Foods segment.
The inventory adjustment was not included in our original guidance.
As previously stated we expect CytoSport to contribute approximately $0.05 per share to our fiscal 2015 results.
Selling general and administrative expenses in the fourth quarter were 6.5% of sales compared to 6.3% last year.
For the full year selling general and administrative expenses were 7% of sales compared to 7.2% last year.
We expect selling general and administrative expenses to be between 7.5% and 7.8% of sales for fiscal 2015.
The growth over fiscal 2014 will come as a result of plans for the increased advertising Jeff alluded to including the marketing associated with CytoSport.
Advertising expense for the fourth quarter was $22.4 million compared to $16.6 million last year.
The increase over the prior year was primarily associated with advertising for CytoSport products in the Specialty Foods segment and the national advertising campaign for HORMEL REV Wraps.
Equity in earnings of affiliates was $5.7 million in the fourth quarter versus $2.1 million last year.
The increase is largely the result of improved earnings at our MegaMex joint venture.
Interest and investment income was $0.8 million for the fourth quarter compared to $2.5 million last year.
Year-to-date interest and investment income was $3.2 million compared to $5 million the year ago.
Interest expense for the quarter was $3.4 million compared to $3.1 million last year.
Year-to-date interest expense was $12.7 million up from $12.5 million last year.
We expect interest expense to be approximately $12 million to $14 million for fiscal 2015.
Our effective tax rate in the fourth quarter was 34.1% versus 33.9% in fiscal 2013.
The year-to-date effective tax rate was 34.3% compared to 33.6% last year.
For fiscal 2015 we expect the effective tax rate to be between 34% and 34.5%.
The basic weighted average number of shares outstanding for the fourth quarter and full year were 263.6 million and 263.8 million shares respectively.
The diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding for the fourth quarter and full year were 269.8 million and 270.2 million shares respectively.
We repurchased 666 000 shares of common stock during the fourth quarter spending $30.9 million.
For the full year we spent $58.9 million purchasing 1.3 million shares.
We have 8.2 million shares remaining to be purchased from the current authorization in place.
Total debt at the end of the quarter was $250 million the same as last year.
During the fourth quarter we repaid our line of credit used to fund the CytoSport acquisition.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $47.3 million compared to $38 million last year.
For the full year capital expenditures totaled $159.1 million compared with $106.8 million last year.
For fiscal 2015 we expect capital expenditures to be approximately $180 million to $200 million.
Depreciation and amortization for the quarter was $32.9 million compared to $31.9 million last year.
For the full year depreciation and amortization was $130 million compared to $125 million last year.
We expect depreciation and amortization to be approximately $125 million in fiscal 2015.
We announced a $0.20 per share increase to the annual dividend making the new dividend $1.
This represents a 25% increase after an 18% increase last year and marks the 49th consecutive year in which we have increased our dividend.
At this time I will turn the call over to the operator for the question-and-answer portion.
Operator?  [Operator Instructions] I will go first to Kenneth Zaslow with BMO Capital Markets.
Can we just talk about the guidance for a second? I was just surprised by the muted tone of it.
I guess when I think about it if I strip out the CytoSport and I strip out some of the weather and issues that you happened to have last year which I thought was going to recur it seems like the internal growth is about mid-single digits.
First of all I guess my question is did I do my math right and then second does that strike you as the right balance are you conservative on that how do you think about that in terms of the internal growth that's how I look at it? Let me walk you through our thinking in terms of the guidance range that we've established for 2015.
Starting with Refrigerated Foods as we talked about earlier in the call we do expect processing margins to not be as favorable as they were in 2014.
Notwithstanding this Refrigerated Foods we would expect to still grow modestly due to their value-added sales momentum in foodservice and with their retail brands and due to improved general efficiency but it will be fairly modest growth in 2015 at a segment profit operating level.
This more favorable cost environment should help Grocery Products so we do expect Grocery Products to rebound to more normal growth rates plus the fact that they will no longer have the earn-out as part of Fresherized Foods in their costs.
The favorable cost will also help International.
We expect International to achieve its fifth consecutive year of double-digit growth.
For both Grocery Products and International there are certain lingering high costs in the inventory that will continue to sort of dampen their results in their opening quarter of the year but as the year goes on we'll be working through that inventory.
Clearly Jennie-O Turkey Store our expectation is to have another good year.
They are in a more favorable grain environment plus they have great value-added momentum and this should move them towards the top of the operating profit range that we just articulated.
That being said there are some mitigating factors for Jennie-O Turkey Store.
The grain benefit is partially offset by hedges.
We've talked before about our hedge philosophy.
The soymeal side of the grain formulas has remained stubbornly high.
And we do have certain grain based contracts with foodservice customers within that segment.
Secondly we expect the turkey commodity meat markets which have been at an all-time high to not be quite as favorable in 2015.
And then third we have approved an enhanced advertising budget for Jennie-O Turkey Store the Make The Switch campaign has driven good results and so we're going to be investing further there.
In fact overall advertising spending as we talked about was up double digits in 2014 for the whole Company and should be again in 2015.
For Specialty Foods by the fourth quarter that the unit had recovered from the year-over-year SPLENDA change in business operations their results were actually up modestly in Q4 if you don't count CytoSport at all.
And so we expect again modest growth of the overall Specialty portfolio in 2015 plus they should attain the $0.05 a share benefit from the acquisition of CytoSport.
So for us this adds up to a range of $2.45 to $2.55 exclusive of the nonrecurring events.
The midpoint of this range is a 12% increase over the year we just completed on top of the 14% increase we generated in 2014.
So that's our thinking at least in terms of providing this kind of guidance range.
That's great.
And then just a follow-up is the cost savings is there a greater initiative at Hormel to focus on cost savings? I know obviously one facility you're closing down you're thinking about the Vietnam is there something that you're doing more broadly that we should be thinking about maybe internal actions and does it have to do with the retail environment or these are just one-offs that I shouldn't read anything into it? I guess I wouldn't read anything into it.
I mean the timing on those types of decisions I mean we've had the investment with our partner in Southeast Asia in the Vietnam operations for several years and kind of given that we think a good try there but really feel we'd be better off focusing our attention elsewhere.
In terms of the Stockton plant decision I mean it's an older facility.
We really had to kind of make a determination do we pour more money into that facility or could we utilize the capacities we have available in more modern grocery facilities elsewhere in the U.S.
and so we made that difficult decision for that reason.
Great I appreciate it.
We'll go next to Farha Aslam with Stephens Inc.
I noticed you had a considerable step-up in your CapEx expectations for 2015.
Is there something incremental that you're investing in for next year? Sure Farha this is Jody.
Jeff talked about the new SPAM production facility that we're going to be – Refrigerated Foods production facility that we are building in China.
So a portion of that plant will impact 2015.
We had started the construction of additional SPAM lines domestically that will flow over into 2015 as well.
And then we have several other initiatives that we're looking at to expand capacities for some of our product lines that are running at tighter capacities.
So yes it is a step-up and then we have just the general repair and maintenance type CapEx that comes with operating many facilities across the country.
Right.
And then in terms of capital allocation overall it looks like you have a net debt-free balance sheet.
Could you share with us your uses of cash and kind of your priorities in terms of how you look to deploy that capital going into next year? We certainly took a good step forward with the 25% increase in the dividend that we made this year.
So that's obviously something a legacy that we are extremely proud of and would look to continue to do that going forward.
We've made several acquisitions SKIPPY in 2013 and then more recently the CytoSport acquisition in 2014.
So we'll continue to look for opportunities there that fit with our strategies of brands that are number one or number two in the marketplace transactions that can be accretive both from a margin perspective as well as overall profit certainly looking for things that provide us the global footprint and then more recently trying to look at things that fit more into a health and wellness type portfolio appealing to younger consumers addressing the snack area as well as our ability to add innovation to anything that we would purchase.
And then share repurchase? You know that's probably a little more opportunistic.
We did do some this year and I would expect that we'll take a look at doing that a little bit in 2015 as well.
Okay great.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Eric Larson with Janney Capital Markets.
Thank you and happy Thanksgiving to everybody.
I'd like to drill down just a little bit more on the cut-out margin.
I think it's reasonable to assume that the cut-out margin would normalize a little bit more next year but demand has remained I think a lot stronger than what we would have all expected.
Now I think there can be a lot more competition from chicken next year as well but can you – exports for pork have been particularly strong can you try to put some of the demand context into that how you're looking at that cut-out margin? Sure I'll give the wheel here.
We certainly have seen some volatility in those operating margins in the first part of our fiscal year in November here so they've been a little bit all over the board certainly lower than they were last year at this time from that perspective.
We do expect to see hog numbers increase 3% to 3.5% we're not taking our harvest up that high but that should provide lots of availability.
The demand seems to be the equation that we'll see what happens with that.
We would expect the cut-outs to come off the historical highs that they have been and we've seen some of that come already.
So our balance is that they're going to go back more to a normalized range maybe not as low as the five-year average and that's what we've used in our assumptions.
Okay alright.
And then just one follow-up question on Jennie-O obviously your ad campaigns have been very successful for your value-added products and you're going to bump up your advertising next year.
Is part of that reflecting the fact that you might have easier fuel comps and fuel comparisons this upcoming winter I mean Lord knows what that will be but is part of the thinking that you'll just reinvest some of the positive variance in some of your operating costs in that division? I mean we do pulse the advertising somewhat based on macro conditions but clearly the Jennie-O brand has benefited from being on-air and from emphasizing this sort of Make The Switch theme and the most recent version has been the taco campaign but we had a burger campaign and a bacon campaign in prior years as well.
Their plans right now are to kind of roll into some new markets with that advertising to support some product placements that we've been able to attain through our sales organization.
And so we'll definitely be on-air early in the year and we may complement that with more of a fall campaign as well.
Okay thank you.
I'll pass it on.
We'll go next to Adam Samuelson with Goldman Sachs.
I want to spend a little time in Grocery if we could and talk about the volume outlook there.
I think they were down 5% in the quarter and it's been really challenged for most of the year and help us think about some of the product categories I know there's been a big focus on Compleats over the course of the year to right that but maybe a bit of context in terms of the categories where that have struggled this year and some of the actions that you're taking or anticipating can drive an improvement in 2015? I mean on the positive side as we talked about I mean bacon business had a fantastic year.
We have two brands within the Mexican portfolio that are really on a roll in terms of double-digit growth the HERDEZ brand and WHOLLY and now the WHOLLY sales in 2014 were not being reflected in our results.
So that would have changed the year-over-year results had we had those in there and starting in 2015 we will have that.
Our franchises our iconic brands of SPAM and SKIPPY had fairly flat Q4 results but both have what we hope are good solid marketing campaigns going forward and we expect growth out of both of those brands in 2015.
The areas where we have struggled a little bit more have been some of the other traditional canned meat items the Dinty Moore and the Hormel chilli items.
And then we kind of continue to have coming up and down experience with our microwave meals we are going to market with a little bit different tactics within that category in terms of tiered pricing and new offerings and we'll see if that works.
That's our game-plan going into 2015.
Okay that's helpful.
Maybe that rolls into my follow-up on the 5% plus sales growth target I would imagine in spite of 3% growth from CytoSport if that layers in I think you're consolidating some different parts of the business that you haven't in the past but I would imagine that the commodity price environment in pork and refrigerated as well as in turkey would be a little bit of a headwind and so I guess I'm surprised that – am I thinking about it right that the 5% is really about acquisitions and some of the kind of consolidating different businesses as opposed to underlying with offsetting price declines and more flattish volume environment across the portfolio? Pricing is always a wildcard.
I mean our long-term revenue goal is a 5% goal.
We actually expect to exceed that here in 2015 in part because of the WHOLLY brand coming onto Grocery sales.
And so in general I mean if you look at our long-term track record we have actually exceeded the 5% over the last five years but that is definitely with some assistance from acquisitions such as SKIPPY and the MUSCLE MILK acquisition.
So in general clearly when I look at the grocery store environment I think our perimeter based items we do expect to be able to grow at that kind of a 5% clip.
Center of the store maybe not quite that robust but we have had investments in acquisitions such as SKIPPY that have added to that portfolio and we think Mexican can definitely grow at that pace.
Our Foodservice Group has done a nice job with that as well.
So our target kind of not counting acquisitions is certainly in the 3% to 4% range and then we've been able to round that up by virtue of finding the right prospects periodically.
Alright that's very helpful.
I'll pass it along.
We'll go next to Diane Geissler with CLSA.
I wanted to ask you about the normalized ranges that you provided this morning.
It looks as if you've taken down the Grocery Products normalized margin by about 200 basis points but you've improved your JOTS margin by 200 basis points.
So my question is really in the Grocery Products segment how much of the margin reduction is due to the fact that you'll be rolling in sort of 100% of the Fresherized Foods and what percentage is just due to your ongoing outlook for whatever tighter protein markets which impacts that margin or slower growth coming from the center of the store is there any way to quantify for us what's going on with your outlook on the Grocery Products margins? I can tell you for 2015 our expectation is that the net margin will be kind of equivalent to what you saw in 2014.
So what you have there is the watering down effect of a lot of the Fresherized sales coming in with only half margin being reported but an expected improvement in terms of – we said we had some very difficult operating cost challenges during 2014 and we don't expect those to recur.
So altogether those two factors should cancel each other out.
I guess I would also point out that if you take away MegaMex so I mean you've got a great growing business with great consumer franchises but franchises that were accounting 100% of the sales and only half of the earnings and the after-tax of that in some cases the core Grocery Products portfolio not counting MegaMex is still we still look to be in the high teens in terms of their operating delivery.
So we really don't feel we've seen a denigration in the portfolio we just are seeing the impact of MegaMex rolling through there in terms of that range we just provided.
And I would add that MegaMex generally is growing at a little faster clip than our corp portfolio is.
Okay that makes a lot of sense.
And then I wanted to ask about the new plant in China.
I think you said peanut bacon ham pepperoni whatever I'm assuming that's going to be under a branded like Hormel brand and I guess if you could just few more details about what your strategy will be in China do you expect to open retail outlets do you have partners there who will be providing the sourcing materials I mean can you just give us a little bit more clarity on what your plans are when that plant opens in 2016? Sure.
So right now we have three plants in China.
One of them is a SKIPPY peanut butter plant exclusively for that production and so that one we won't count that right now but our team definitely operates that in terms of the G&amp;A efficiencies of the total operation and it's a great sales vehicle for us in that and other markets.
We then have two other facilities that we've operated for more than a dozen years one in Beijing and one in Shanghai that produce these similar refrigerated based items.
Our team has done a very nice job growing that business over time I mean that's many times a 20% plus growth trajectory and so as we project forward with the kind of business we have we needed new plant capacity and so the team has been working on identifying kind of where that should be and how that would roll together.
And so that production in terms of the sourcing for the last several years we buy meat from approved suppliers within the Chinese market we don't raise hogs ourselves and we're not a basic slaughter in that market but we're confident that we have sufficient meat suppliers to meet these growth needs that will go ultimately into that new plant.
We'll go next to Mario Contreras with Deutsche Bank.
You had mentioned PEDV briefly.
I just wanted to maybe get a little bit more of your thoughts on what you've seen so far now that we're getting into the kind of early months of the core winter weather and then how do you anticipate potential impact on profitability if prevalence is greater or less than maybe what you're expecting? This is Jody.
That certainly could be a wildcard.
What we have seen in the industry is it slowed down during the summer months as one would expect as the weather seems to be more conducive in the winter when it's cold and damp but we've also seen a lot of the producers really increase their bio security and I think that will have a positive impact on any further spread of the disease.
So our assumption is that hog production should grow in the 3% to 3.5% for the industry as a whole and that assumes that there is a lot less impact than there was last year on PED.
Okay.
And then one additional question if I could on the International segment I believe you had indicated your volume was up 6% but if I back out the benefit from SKIPPY China and CytoSport is it fair to say that core volume was down am I thinking about that right for that business? I wouldn't want to do the math on the fly.
I mean certainly it was flattish.
It wasn't the best quarter either for SPAM in terms of we had high inputs and then some cases then had some deferred shipments to some of our export markets and we had an uneven quarter in terms of SKIPPY we have a couple of markets where it's going great but a couple of others where it receded somewhat.
But overall I mean they saw a double-digit growth on a full year basis for International last year and we expect a strong growth heading into 2015.
Okay so I guess it sounds like maybe you view that as more of sort of a one-off weak quarter with some timing issues but strong when we look into 2015? Yes with the other caveat that I mentioned earlier that from a margin standpoint International still will be kind of – SPAM is a major product line for example on the inventory carrying cost that they have from the spike in raw materials this summer will still impact them certainly through Q1 but after that they should be in better condition.
Okay great.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc.
Good morning and happy Thanksgiving.
So first question is on SG&amp;A you mentioned you expect an increase next year.
Can you address where you ended up this year? I believe came in a little bit less than what you were expecting.
So is part of next year's increase a timing shift and if you can just give us a sense as to why this year's SG&amp;A to sales came in lower than what you were expecting? That's my first question.
So part of the driver for 2014 SG&amp;A being somewhat lower was the timing of some compensation accruals we had last year but we didn't have this year.
As far as 2015 the majority of that increase is really being driven by the increased advertising campaigns.
Okay.
And then with your long-term guidance on margins very helpful what timeframe should we be thinking of that margin outlook to be? And you've made a lot of portfolio changes Jeff so in general where are your portfolios today versus where it was five years ago? I mean do you feel generally better about expanding margins longer-term as a whole or you feel better about the growth prospects organic growth prospects of this portfolio? I guess we're probably putting these ranges out as reasonable over the next three to four years.
I mean things can change both in macro conditions and in our businesses so we would want to keep an eye on those and update those as those things make modifications.
In terms of your other question I mean we certainly hope we've improved the portfolio over time that's been the goal.
I think it depends on which segment we're talking about as to whether the expansion of margins versus growth is the bigger area of emphasis.
So clearly within Refrigerated Foods that team understands very clearly that their mission is to expand margins.
They had a very nice year this year in terms of moving upward and expect to hold that in 2015 and grow from there.
In other areas such as Jennie-O Turkey Store or International I think those are excellent growth opportunities.
So the bigger those two pieces can become of our overall portfolio the better off we'll be in the aggregate.
When we announced the CytoSport acquisition we conceded that at least on an onboarding basis it was kind of even with Specialty Foods' margins but we do think that as we get our hands around that business and drive efficiency and growth going forward that that can start migrating those margins up and so that was why that range has an upside to it that's above where they are at today.
So it kind of depends on the area of the business.
That's helpful.
I'll pass it on.
Thanks.
We'll go next to Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Just a few kind of odds and ends questions.
On Jennie-O you said that you expected commodity turkey prices to be a little lower.
Can you give me some of the drivers behind that? I thought supplies have been tightened quite a bit.
Do you expect supplies to increase? Secondly I think your competitor in peanut butter is taking a price cut.
Are you going to do the same? And then lastly I'm planning to visit your offices in January any wardrobe recommendations for visiting Minnesota in January? Boots and a long coat.
Alright thank you for that.
[Once you reach] [ph] we'll have you well taken care of.
The roads are a different story.
No golf outing this year in January? We'll find you a simulator somewhere.
I don't know that would be a [better idea] [ph].
So let's start with Jennie-O.
We have seen increases in egg sets and poult placements recently.
We had a flat year in 2014 in terms of total pounds brought into the system yet our value-added businesses keep growing and so we will be increasing our supplies somewhat going forward.
The market also seemed like it kind of got an early jump last year when a number of entities had issues with propane and winter weather and so forth and the meat supplies tightened quite a bit.
So we are expecting a more normal situation there.
We have taken steps to get our hands on more of the propane ourselves so that we're not quite as much at mercy of the marketplace for that and I don't know what others have done.
But overall I mean they were at very high levels this year and our best outlook is that it will still be strong levels next year but not at what we've benefited from this year.
In terms of the peanut butter equation going into this fall and going into our fiscal year for 2015 we had not been looking at taking further price decreases.
The crops certainly have been more favorable lately and there was an overall decline in costs but relatively speaking that decline has not accelerated in recent months it pretty much was already priced into the crop.
But when the leading share player made their announcement as to their strategy going forward we huddled our group and really thought about okay what's our reaction going to be to this? We're still pretty early on in the ownership of this brand we recognize that we're at kind of almost a 2-to-1 deficit when you look at market share in the U.S.
and so we thought – and we're not really asserting that SKIPPY is a premium peanut butter product it's a mainstream product and so our assessment was when the market leader has modified the price and that we want to in essence stay competitive with that price and so we will be executing a price decrease in the marketplace.
We think that this should allow fewer promotional dollars to be spent in the category because the bases are lower so the feature that needs to come off with that doesn't need to be as deep and so that will be our execution strategy going forward.
Got it.
So [indiscernible] yes but the price cut so that didn't really affect your profit outlook for fiscal 2015 for SKIPPY you think that the promo adjustment will kind of balance it out? I guess I don't want to give you a one line item like that.
I mean in the aggregate of our Grocery what we expect for Grocery Products what we're spending our ad dollars on et cetera we're comfortable with the returns that SKIPPY will deliver in terms of the overall growth we're expecting for grocery in fiscal 2015.
Yes okay.
Alright have a great holiday.
At this time there are no further questions.
Okay we will conclude our call.
I am pleased with the opportunity to announce another record performance this year.
This has been the result of the hard work and dedication of the really talented team here at Hormel Foods and we're looking forward to an even stronger fiscal 2015.
So on behalf of our team I want to wish you all happy Thanksgiving and thank you for joining us today on the call.
This does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Hormel Foods' Corporation First Quarter Conference Call on 2/19/2015.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Jana Haynes.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Hormel Foods earnings conference call for the first quarter of fiscal 2015.
We released our results this morning before the market opened around 6:30 AM Eastern Time.
If you did not receive a copy of the release you can find it on our website at www.hormelfoods.com under the Investors section.
On our call today is Jeff Ettinger Chairman of the Board President and Chief Executive Officer; and Jody Feragen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jeff will provide a review of the operating results for the quarter; then Jody will provide detailed financial results for the quarter; the line will be opened for questions following Jody's remarks.
As a courtesy to the other analysts please limit yourself to one question with one follow-up.
If you have additional queries you are welcome to get back into the queue.
An audio replay of this call will be available beginning at 11.00 AM Central Time today February 19 2015.
The dial-in number is 888-203-1112 and the access code is 7062923.
It will be posted to our website and archived for one year.
Before we get started with the results of the quarter I need to reference the Safe Harbor statement.
Some of the comments made today will be forward-looking and are made under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the statements we will be making.
Among the factors that may affect the operating results of the company are fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw materials and market conditions for finished products.
Please refer to pages 26 through 30 in the company's Annual Report for the fiscal year ended October 26 2014 for more details.
It can be accessed on our website.
Additionally please note the company uses non-GAAP results to provide investors additional information to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations.
Discussion on non-GAAP information is detailed in our press release located on our corporate website.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you and good morning everyone.
We're off to an excellent start to our fiscal year with adjusted net earnings up 22% from a year ago on record first-quarter sales of $2.4 billion a 7% increase over last year.
In terms of segment performance Refrigerated Foods delivered a 19% increase in operating profit on a 1% sales increase.
Our food service group achieved strong sales of branded items such as HORMEL BACON 1 fully cooked bacon HORMEL pizza toppings and MENUMASTER hams.
Meat products grew retail sales of HORMEL GATHERINGS Party Trays HORMEL pepperoni and Hormel Natural Choice lunch meat.
In addition to this value-added product growth lower than anticipated hog prices were a nice tailwind for the segment during this quarter.
The combination of lower feed cost a more mild winter and a fairly quick rebound from the PED virus that plagued the industry over the past year is resulting in an increasing domestic hog supply.
Pork remained an excellent relative value to consumers and we continue to see solid demand from our customers.
While we drove growth in our value-added Refrigerated Foods businesses our overall sales increase was only 1% and volume was down 3%.
We reduced harvest levels by 2% compared to last year as certain market conditions did not support volume increases for much of the quarter.
Also as we announced on our last call we dissolved our Precept Foods joint venture which resulted in lower sales and volumes this quarter.
Jennie-O Turkey Store delivered impressive growth this quarter exceeding our expectations with segment profit up 56% and sales up 10% compared to last year.
Results were driven by value-added sales and excellent execution throughout the segment along with favorable commodity turkey prices and lower feed cost.
Jennie-O lean ground turkey rotisserie turkey and premium seasoned deli turkey led sales growth this quarter.
We continue to support and build the Jennie-O brand though our Make the Switch media campaign which began running in new U.S.
markets in January.
Grocery Products adjusted segment profit decreased 8% this quarter with sales up 2%.
High meat input costs and varied pricing actions in key categories hampered the growth of some of our brands.
Products including SKIPPY peanut butter and Hormel chili were down this quarter.
On the positive side our SPAM family of products Wholly Guacamole dips and Herdez salsas and sauces grew nicely during the quarter.
Grocery Products is dedicated to strengthening our brand through advertising and merchandising support with campaigns running in the first half of the year for SKIPPY peanut butter Hormel chili and Hormel Compleats microwave meals.
Out Specialty Foods segment reported an operated profit decrease of 13% and a sales increase of 34%.
Excluding sales of CytoSport products sales were up 3%.
The lower operating profit was primarily driven by reduced contract manufacturing business during the quarter which offset the incremental CytoSport results.
Specialty Foods achieved solid distribution gains from Muscle Milk protein nutrition products in the food drug and mass channel over the past quarter.
International &amp; Other adjusted segment profit increased 6% with solid increases from both our retail and food service businesses in China offset in part by lower results from SPAM exports due to high input costs and transportation challenges.
First quarter sales for International were up 17% benefiting from strong growth in China increased SKIPPY peanut butter sales and the addition of the SKIPPY China business.
Looking ahead to the rest of fiscal we believe hog and grain costs will remain favorable.
We expect the high turkey commodity prices which have been beneficial over the last several months to trend down as the year progresses.
We anticipate sales of our value-added products in Refrigerated Foods and Jennie-O Turkey Store will remain strong throughout the year.
Lower meat prices will provide input cost relief for some of our Grocery Products categories after we work through higher-cost inventories.
Specialty Foods will maintain its focus on maximizing CytoSport synergies gaining distribution igniting innovation and building the Muscle Milk brand to drive segment growth.
We continue to expect the CytoSport business to deliver the $0.05 per share earnings accretion we have previously guided.
We look for Grocery Products and Specialty Foods segments to contribute to our growth goals in the back half of the fiscal year.
We expect International to build on its growth trajectory in China with some challenges to its export business over the next few months offsetting a portion of that growth.
Due to our strong performance in the first quarter we are raising our fiscal 2015 adjusted earnings guidance range excluding the non-recurring charges from $2.45 to $2.55 per share up to $2.50 to $2.60 per-share.
At this time I will turn the call over to Jody Feragen to discuss the financial information relating to the first quarter.
Director &amp; Executive VP</strong> Thank you Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
On a GAAP basis net earnings for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 totaled $171.7 million up 12% over last year.
Diluted earnings per share were $0.64 a 12% increase.
Excluding non-recurring charges non-GAAP adjusted net earnings for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 totaled $187.3 million up 22% from net earnings of $153.3 million last year.
Non-GAAP adjusted diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.69 up 21% compared to $0.57 per share a year ago.
The first quarter included pre-tax non-recurring charges of $10.5 million related to the Stockton California plant closure and $9.5 million for the exit of international joint venture businesses.
Sales for the first quarter totaled $2.4 billion compared to $2.2 billion for the same period last year a 7% increase.
Volume for the first quarter was 1.3 billion pounds up 3% from fiscal 2014.
Selling general and administrative expenses in the first quarter were 7.5% of sales compared to 7.4% for the same period last year.
We expect selling general and administrative expenses to be between 7.5% and 7.8% of sales for fiscal 2015.
Advertising expenses for the first quarter were $42.2 million compared to $36.1 million last year.
The increase over the prior year was primarily associated with advertising for CytoSport products in the Specialty Foods segment.
Equity in earnings of affiliates was $1.7 million in the first quarter versus $4.7 million last year.
Charges associated with the exit of international joint venture businesses totaling $9.5 million offset improved performance from our MegaMex Foods joint venture.
Interest and investment income was $1.1 million for the first quarter compared to $1.2 million last year.
Interest expense for the quarter was $3.1 million unchanged from last year.
Our effective tax rate in the first quarter was 34.7% versus 34.4% in fiscal 2014.
We expect the effective tax rate to be between 34% and 35% for fiscal year 2015.
The basic weighted average number of shares outstanding for the first quarter was 263.7 million shares.
The diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding for the first quarter was 270.1 million shares.
We did not repurchase shares during the first quarter.
We have 8.2 million shares remaining to be purchased from the current authorization in place.
Total debt at the end of the quarter was unchanged at $250 million.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $27.7 million compared to $37 million last year.
For fiscal 2015 we expect capital expenditures to be approximately $175 million to $190 million.
Depreciation and amortization for the quarter was $32.8 million compared to $31.8 million last year.
We expect depreciation and amortization to be approximately $125 million in fiscal 2015.
At this time I will turn the call over to the operator for the question-and-answer portion of the call.
Steve? Our first question is from Adam Samuelson from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Hi.
This is Jason filling in for Adam.
First off congratulations on the great quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you Jason.
And I was hoping you could talk a bit about whether 1Q is in line with your internal expectations.
I guess I'm curious on whether the guidance increase was more a function of the 1Q beat or kind of a stronger-than-expected remainder of the year.
And if the latter can you talk a bit about what's changed from your original outlook given lower pork prices and higher commodity chicken? Thanks.
Or on turkey? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Yes really the guidance range increase is pretty much recognizing the beat for the first quarter.
As we look at the remainder of the year we had a robust growth plan already submitted for the year.
We're still confident that we should be able to deliver against that plan.
There are things that are trending more strongly and there are things that are more challenging but all in we're comfortable that this new range reflects our best estimate of where we think the year should turn out.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Our next question is from Farha Aslam from Stephens Inc.
Your line is open.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Farha.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Could you update us on your two acquisitions the Hormel acquisition of SKIPPY as well as CytoSport? Are they performing in line with your expectations? Or do you think CytoSport's going to deliver that $0.05 accretion that you anticipated given that you're spending pretty heavily in the first quarter against that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
SKIPPY has been a wonderful acquisition for the company.
Even this current quarter where we experienced some down sales in the grocery part of it the domestic U.S.
part we really feel that's a short-term reaction to kind of the pricing activity going on within the category and we're still very very bullish on the item long-term.
We've done a good job of gaining new distribution.
We have our new ad campaign that we have confidence in going forward.
We are looking to create innovative products the first of which are the SKIPPY Singles items out in the marketplace.
And even this quarter SKIPPY on a international basis enjoyed very good results and we're pleased with where that's heading.
CytoSport is also off to a good start.
A lot of activity has gone on in these first few months of ownership.
We've already seen some really significant sales achievements within the food drug and mass channel that we frankly kind of knew that Hormel would be an advantage for us bringing that skill set to that brand.
And we continue to bolster efforts in some of the other channels as well the club and specialty channels.
The team is hard at work at creating the right cost structure for that overall business.
We're now running that business on a collaborative or combined basis with our previous Century Foods organization.
That was a custom manufacturer within the sports nutrition world.
And so we're definitely confident in the $0.05 accretion that we've called out for that business going forward.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
And then as a follow-up there's two businesses up for sale in the protein area.
Can you just comment generally what you think about valuations and transactions in the food and protein space right now and Hormel's interest in M&amp;A? Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Well Farha I'm not sure what two transactions you're talking about and we wouldn't comment on any specific businesses that are available.
But still go back to the things that we're looking for in acquisitions and really to meet the platforms of global certainly things that have an international component are very attractive.
We've done some nice work in the snacking and on-the-go business.
So meeting things that meet that criteria better-for-you as well as things that can add accretion to our existing margin structure.
We like number one and number two brands.
And certainly anything that adds a component where we can bring some innovation is obviously attractive to us.
So we continue to evaluate opportunities.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
Our next question is from Ken Zaslow from Bank of Montreal.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Ken.
I just have two questions.
One is on grocery what are the prospects for the top line growth in that business? I know it struggled a little bit but on the flipside is what are the key inputs that have broken your way in terms of – and what's the timing to which you're going to be able to realize some of those breaks in the input prices? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
On the top line side we enjoyed really an excellent quarter on the MegaMex franchise particularly the Herdez and Wholly brands and so those definitely should be superior delivery vehicles for Grocery Products going forward.
Our expectation is that SKIPPY is going to be a solid growth contributor for our company and it has been every quarter that we've owned it except for this one.
And so we need to get through this price decrease activity that occurred during the quarter and move on and restore our growth there.
We continue to enjoy growth with our SPAM product line have good consumer marketing against that line and continue to add flavors.
So overall we're encouraged that Grocery Products should be able to deliver growth within its segment.
On the input or more cost oriented side I mean we were talking about probably the second half of the year is where we really expect Grocery Products to start showing significant year-over-year growth.
That will come in part we think from the top line benefit of the ad campaigns that we referenced in our earlier comments.
We're in a better raw material cost picture.
When you look at churn (18:54) costs for example they're much more favorable right now than they were a year ago.
And we're still working through some old inventory before we can fully reflect those but that definitely will be a help.
We should be in a better position in terms of our production resources following the closure of the Stockton plant and moving a couple of those lines as well as some new lines of production at Dubuque that we previously announced.
So those are all reasons why we're bullish on the second half for Grocery Products on the input side.
You expect to have volumes up in the back half of the year.
Is that fair? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
And then just I guess follow-up is can you just talk about what is the impact of the West Coast port issues? Have you had any major impact? Did you foresee it? Do you think it's going to get resolved? Is it one-time in nature? Any sort of color on that.
I know it's a loaded question but just curious on that.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I mean compared to a lot of companies we're probably not as exposed but we still do care about our International business and it's certainly a pain to have some of our important branded products being held up and not being able to deliver them to our customers in the marketplace.
We're as hopeful as anyone that the thing will get resolved but I don't know that I have any better perspective than anyone reading the paper can provide as to how likely that is to happen but we're a little hand to mouth with some of our inventories right now in terms of shipping overseas but in terms of total impact to the business it has not been meaningful.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Eric Larson from Janney Capital.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Good morning everyone.
Nice quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Two questions.
Margins in the turkey segment were obviously off the charts this quarter.
Can you give us a little bit of help? I know that a year ago in the extremely cold weather that we had we just had crazy fuel costs mainly in propane and even shortages.
They were even hard to get it.
Could you give – possibly quantify the potential year-over-year benefit you received Q1 from that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I can't put a price tag on that Eric but in terms of the trend you're absolutely right.
I mean not only was propane short it was very expensive.
So the market for the product is much better this year.
On top of that we basically operate in Minnesota and Wisconsin.
That's where all our turkey barns are.
It has been relatively speaking a more mild winter here so in terms of propane usage it's not been as significant.
So those are both definitely benefits that have been part of what you described as sort of the off-the-chart performance by Jennie-O coupled with commodity meat markets that have remained higher than we had thought they would although they certainly are starting to trend back to a more normal level.
Yes obviously your commodity meat markets are going to have a much bigger impact.
The next question is probably for Jody.
Jody in the quarter your year-over-year corporate expense line was down sharply.
Was there a one-time issue in last year's number or was there a one-time positive issue this year or how should we look at corporate expense? Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> So I would say there were one-time positive issues this quarter.
We had some miscellaneous sale of assets as well as some sales on (22:38) use tax refunds and that would get parked in that corporate line.
So I would guess that last year is more representative of a going forward rate.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Diane Geissler from CLSA.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Diane.
Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Good morning.
Hey I wanted to ask about your comments about the food service strength in the Refrigerated Foods group.
Could you talk a little bit more about that? I think we've seen some improvement in comp trends recently in the restaurant space.
So maybe your forecast and what you're hearing from your customer base that would be helpful? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Yes we definitely have heard more positive commentary in terms of the general outlook for the marketplace.
The lower gas prices seems to kind of play itself out fairly quickly within that segment in terms of traffic builds.
We obviously hope and I think we've delivered over time performance over the trend line for the overall business.
And I guess I would attribute that to some of the innovative new products that the team's come out with including the BACON 1 that we're having good success with right away this year.
And then also their focused approach on certain of the business segments some of the non-commercial areas such as colleges and universities and healthcare that they've really been able to create new items for and really create some excellent relationships and service that again hopefully allow them to perform above that market trend.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then I wanted to ask a follow-up on Eric's question actually on the JOTS margins.
So obviously very strong this quarter but you did indicate that you felt that commodity prices would begin to soften as we move through the year.
Can you just tell me what your expectations are for the margin structure in JOTS in the back half of the year comparing your expectations on the commodity side versus what I think will still be beneficial raising cost year-on-year not only the roll-through of the inventory in terms of the propane and terrible weather last year et cetera but also lower grain prices? I guess what I'm asking is when you look at the second half of the year do you expect your JOTS margins to be above your normalized range or do you think the pricing dynamic will bring JOTS margins back into a normalized range? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We did provide heading into the year a new sense of what we thought was a normalized range of 13% to 17% and certainly acknowledge this quarter exceeded that.
Now all the ranges we provided were annualized ranges.
Jennie-O has historically had stronger profit delivery in the first quarter and the fourth quarter and then as you get into the summer months the cost picture is a little more challenging typically and some of the demand changes.
So it's hard to give you a quarter-by-quarter sense of that.
I mean for the full year we certainly expect Jennie-O will come in nearer to the top of the range than in the middle and they definitely still should enjoy the benefits on the grain side but we expect less benefit in terms of the commodity meat performance.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thank you so much.
Our next question is from Robert Moskow from Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks.
Greetings from sunny Florida.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
It's only two degrees up here so...
Oh don't make me jealous.
Don't make me jealous.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's my line.
Yes.
But I think it's very rare that we get to see 9% volume growth in a meat business and you're seeing it in Jennie-O and is it really a function of greater demand for value-added products that you're selling? Is it new customers that you brought along or is there a commodity element in that 9% as well? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well there is some commodity element but we did enjoy solid high-single-digit growth really throughout the value-added pieces of Jennie-O.
The most heralded part of the brand would be the retail products that we're enjoying excellent success on ground turkey sold both in tray pack and chub forms that are being supported by the ad campaign but also a nice quarter from the deli group rotisserie and some other premium seasoned items.
Food service also had a good quarter.
So I think we do look at it as we've been able to spur greater demand for the value-added products.
The consumers that have found the Jennie-O Turkey Store brand are trying more items and enjoying it more often.
And while we've enjoyed really great growth not just this year but over a number of years when you look at overall household penetration it's still very low.
And so we think we've got all sorts of room to go.
The trend toward health and wellness is certainly a tailwind that Jennie-O takes advantage of.
And so I think we're well positioned to continue to grow this item.
Okay.
So when you say that the commodity benefits in turkey aren't going to stick around forever are you also referring to that top-line number or are you just referring to the pricing in turkey has to fall due to – I don't know – increased supplies or something? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well our focus at Jennie-O is clearly trying to have a supply chain that delivers against the value-added portfolio.
Although we've done a great job of creating items that utilizes dark meat portion of the turkey the reality is as with most companies there is an element of that product line that ultimately ends up being exported or utilized in the non-value added form and it will probably I don't want to say it will always be that way but it's certainly been that way for the last 10 15 years and it certainly is trending that way.
So that aspect of it we think the dollar sales will definitely be lower because those prices are coming down on a market basis.
But in terms of then the $1 billion plus worth that go out in a value-added form for Jennie-O those we see holding their own even in this diminished marketplace for commodity.
I'm going to cheat with one follow-up.
You raised your guidance $20 million or so pre-tax.
How much of that do you think is just a commodity benefit and how much of it do you think is like really earned kind of value-added business? Is it possible to break that out? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No I don't think it is.
I mean when you look at the total portfolio I mean there's elements that Jennie-O probably had some commodity benefit but there are other parts of the business that are still experiencing general input pressures frankly that diminish their usual returns.
So I mean all in we're all about our balanced model and we're comfortable that for the course of the year with that $0.05 we certainly attained for the first quarter and we expect to be able to hold our plan then for the rest of the year.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Mario Contreras from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> So I wanted ask in the Refrigerated Foods business I guess looking at pork their cutout values the spread between the cutout values and live hog costs are bit wider than what they've been on a historical range.
Is there anything in particular that you see driving this? And how do you see it playing out over the remainder of the year? Is it your expected normalization or is it still going to kind of remain a bit wider than where it's been historically? Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Yes this is Jody.
We certainly have seen that spread remain high although the year-over-year impact to Hormel was not significant.
So that was not a big driver for our Refrigerated Foods business this quarter.
And we'd expect them to be in more normalized ranges for the rest of the year.
The hog prices have come down but the value of the inputs have also come down and they've maintained that respective spread.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just as a follow-up in the International business it looks like you confirm the exit of the Vietnam joint venture.
I guess I wanted to ask is given that Asia has been kind of a focus in terms of you've talked in the past about wanting to expand there both organically and by M&amp;A.
Your experience in Vietnam does that change your outlook in terms of what you want to do in that region from a growth perspective? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> A good question Mario.
No it really doesn't.
I mean maybe it's a refinement that we're going to just redouble our attention on the markets where we have enjoyed better success; China Japan the Philippines Korea.
And Vietnam it's a combination of how that business was structured.
We just were not able to find a way to profitability given its verticality.
It was feed mills pig farms a meat processing business and then ultimately the sale into the marketplace.
And after trying for several years in collaboration with our partner there we just decided look this doesn't seem to be working for us.
And so we've sold our interest to the partner.
But no that should not be seen as a reflection of any sort of abandonment of Asia overall.
We're still very high on that.
We've been happy with our new plant in China that came onboard with SKIPPY and our ability to grow in Asia with that franchise as well as many of our meat franchises.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Very helpful.
Our next question comes from Eric Larson from Janney Capital.
Your line is open.
Thanks everyone.
Thanks for the follow up.
I was going to ask this and I didn't.
Could you just give us – and you've talked about this in the past Jeff about (32:42) the opportunities with CytoSport for distribution gains.
Can you give us a rough idea of what your ACV penetration is today across all the various channels? And then the one thing that CytoSport did bring to you where you didn't a lot of presence was access to the convenience channel the C-store channel and I believe that was really with the liquid beverage product form for Muscle Milk.
Can you give us an idea what we can look for more distribution gains or where we sit on that front? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well on the specifics of ACVs that's probably something maybe Jana could go over with you.
I don't have those numbers with me right now and it kind of does depend by channel.
But I certainly can get to the second part of your question.
We were fortunate within the convenient store channel to be partner with the Pepsi organization.
They do a terrific job within that area.
They've enjoyed being partners with the Muscle Milk team for a long time and have been really appreciative of the redoubled effort that we're now able to do to our new product innovation in that area.
And so they see it as a growth vehicle for their distributors to utilize and we clearly see it as a growth area for us as well.
It does enhance our overall knowledge of the C-store area and we kind of handle the food aspects of the C-store still with our own team with products such as our Don Miguel products and REV and those other types of items but as we become larger within that segment that can only help in terms of our ability to develop the types of items that the C-store world is looking for.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
And we have no further questions at this time.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Well thanks everyone.
I'm really pleased with the opportunity to be able to talk about another record performance for the company this quarter.
We recognize that there are still a number of challenges that face us this year but I'm confident that our teams have the plans in place to drive continued growth for our shareholders.
Thank you all for joining us today.
This does conclude today's program.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day and welcome to the Hormel Foods Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants are in a listen-only mode.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Jana Haynes Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Hormel Foods conference call for the second quarter of fiscal 2015.
We released our results this morning before the market opened around 6:30 AM Eastern Time.
If you did not receive a copy of the release you can find it on our website at hormelfoods.com under the Investors section.
On our call today is Jeff Ettinger Chairman of the board President and Chief Executive Officer; and Jody Feragen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jeff will provide a review of the operating results for the quarter; then Jody will share detailed financial results for the quarter; the line will be opened for questions following Jody's remarks.
As a courtesy to the other analysts please limit yourself to one question with one follow-up.
If you have additional queries you are welcome to get back in the queue.
An audio replay of this call will be available beginning at 10:00 AM Central Time today May 20 2015.
The dial-in number is 888-203-1112 and the access code is 3883596.
The audio replay will also be posted to our website and archived for one year.
Before we get started with the results of the quarter I need to reference the Safe Harbor statement.
Some of the comments made today will be forward-looking and are made under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the statements we will be making.
Among the factors that may affect the operating results of the company are fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw materials and outbreaks of disease among livestock and poultry flocks.
Please refer to pages 29 through 36 in the company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended January 25 2015 for more details.
It can be accessed on our website.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Good morning everyone.
We announced record second quarter earnings this morning of $0.67 per share up 29% over last year.
Segment operating profit increased by 29% with all 5 segments registering gains this quarter.
We also generated record sales of $2.3 billion an increase of 2% over last year on a 5% volume increase.
In terms of segment performance Refrigerated Foods grew segment profit 52% driven by strong performance by our value-added businesses and lower pork input costs.
Segment sales were down 8% this quarter despite a 1% volume increase.
Lower sales were primarily due to pricing decreases on items such as bacon driven by declining pork market values.
Additionally the dissolution of our Precept Foods joint venture announced at the beginning of the year impacts Refrigerated Foods segment sales by approximately 2.5% each quarter in fiscal 2015.
We enjoyed strong sales of many of our value-added items during the quarter including retail sales of HORMEL pepperoni HORMEL GATHERINGSTM party trays and Lloyd's Ribs.
Foodservice sales of HORMEL BACON 1 fully cooked bacon OLD SMOKEHOUSE bacon and HORMEL pizza toppings also delivered solid growth.
We launched a new AUSTIN BLUES competition-style barbecue meats line in the Foodservice channel this quarter as we continue to drive innovation in the category.
Grocery Products segment profit increased 1% on a 1% increase in sales.
Segment results were aided by lower pork input costs along with strong sales growth from SPAM luncheon meat and WHOLLY GUACAMOLE dips.
Sales volumes of SKIPPY peanut butter grew this quarter benefiting from our new advertising campaign however dollar sales decreased as a result of the category price decline earlier this year pressuring segment margins.
Sales of HORMEL COMPLEATS microwave meals were lower this quarter.
Grocery Products continues to drive sales by leveraging our iconic brands in new and innovative ways.
We recently kicked off the coast-to-coast SPAMERICAN Tour with our food truck travelling to popular events across the country this summer featuring SPAM creations by Food Network Chef Sunny Anderson.
Our Specialty Foods segment reported an operating profit increase of 11% and a sales increase of 32% largely led by the recently acquired CytoSport business.
During the second quarter we announced that we will be closing the Benicia California CytoSport manufacturing facility in June and moving portions of the production to our Century Foods operation in Wisconsin and to a third party facility near Benicia.
The planned closure of the facility negatively impacted second quarter segment results by $4.5 million.
The team continues to achieve additional distribution of our MUSCLE MILK protein-rich products delivering gains in the club food drug and mass and convenience channels this quarter.
International and other segment profit increased 2% while sales fell 7%.
Improved joint venture results were mostly offset by lower exports a result of port issues and a strong U.S.
dollar during the quarter.
We did experience higher sales of SPAM luncheon meat gift packs which are popular gifts in South Korea during celebration of the Lunar New Year.
Meat sales in our China operations were also up primarily driven by growth in the Foodservice business.
Jennie-O Turkey Store increased segment profit 41% and grew sales 15%.
Results were driven by robust sales of value-added products and lower grain and fuel costs as compared to last year.
Sales growth was led by Jennie-O lean ground turkey and Jennie-O rotisserie turkey.
The Midwest began experiencing significant outbreaks of highly pathogenic avian influenza in late March.
To date approximately 55 farms have been impacted that were to supply Jennie-O Turkey Store with turkeys.
While we experienced modest financial impact from the outbreak in the second quarter Jennie-O Turkey Store is estimating a loss of approximately 15% of second half sales.
This sizeable estimated loss of volume is not only due to bird losses over the past month but also takes into account the fact that many of our barns remain empty under quarantine.
Due to lack of internal turkey supply we will be purchasing some additional meat from external sources but at a higher cost.
We are also planning for lower sales as we are forced to rationalize some business.
As a result of the turkey supply shortages on May 5 we regrettably announced a temporary layoff of our second shift employees at our Faribault Minnesota facility.
We look forward to welcoming our team members back when bird numbers and production levels return to normal.
Our team is working closely with government agencies and other organizations as they study this virus and work to control the spread.
As always employee safety and food safety are top priorities in our organization and we remain focused on safety even as we work through these unprecedented challenges.
Looking ahead to the second half operating margins of Jennie-O Turkey Store will be significantly challenged due to the impacts of avian influenza on our turkey supply chain reducing expected segment operating margins in the back half to the 10% to 12% range.
Refrigerated Foods should continue to benefit from strong value-added sales and lower input costs although segment earnings growth is expected to be less robust in light of difficult comparisons to last year's third quarter.
We look for Grocery Products to deliver strong segment profit growth in the back half benefiting from lower input costs and softer prior year comparisons.
Specialty Foods is positioned for strong performance in the second half as the team has realized synergies achieved distribution gains and ignited innovation in the recently acquired Muscle Milk business.
We expect our International segment to deliver growth in the second half as well with improved export sales and solid results from our China business.
Based on our assessment of the impact of avian influenza on Jennie-O Turkey Store to date and given that Refrigerated Foods and Jennie-O Turkey Store segments delivered excellent results in the first half we are maintaining our fiscal 2015 adjusted guidance range of $2.50 to $2.60 per share but expect full year earnings to be near the lower end of this range.
Our balanced business model provides Hormel Foods the ability to navigate challenges such as this year's unprecedented turkey supply shortage and continue to deliver consistent growth over the long term.
At this time I will turn the call over to Jody Feragen to discuss the financial information relating to the second quarter.
Director &amp; Executive VP</strong> Thank you Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
Earnings for the second quarter of fiscal 2015 totaled $180.2 million or $0.67 per share compared to $140.1 million or $0.52 per share a year ago.
Dollar sales for the second quarter totaled $2.28 billion compared to $2.24 billion last year a 2% increase.
Sales excluding the incremental impact of CytoSport and MegaMex products were down 3%.
Lower pork prices the dissolution of the Precept Foods joint venture lower exports and the price reduction on SKIPPY peanut butter products were the primary drivers.
Volume for the second quarter was 1.29 billion pounds increasing 5% from the same period last year.
Tonnage was up 1% excluding the incremental impact of CytoSport and MegaMex products.
Selling general and administrative expenses in the second quarter were 8.3% of sales up from 7.4% last year.
Selling general and administrative expenses were higher this year due to employee-related expenses along with higher advertising expense.
For the full year we expect selling general and administrative expenses to be between 7.5% and 7.8% of sales.
Advertising expense for the quarter was $39.5 million compared to $34.8 million last year.
The increase was due mostly to advertising expense at CytoSport for the MUSCLE MILK brand which was acquired last August.
Equity and earnings of affiliates was $7.9 million in the second quarter versus $3.6 million last year.
The increase is largely the result of prior year incentive expenses related to the Fresherized Foods acquisition not repeated this year and also savings associated with the exit of the international joint ventures last quarter.
Interest expense for the quarter was $3.1 million unchanged from last year.
Our effective tax rate in the second quarter was 34.6% versus 34% in fiscal 2014.
For fiscal 2015 full year we expect the effective tax rate to be between 34% and 35%.
The basic weighted average number of shares outstanding for the second quarter was 264 million.
The diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding for the second quarter was 270.4 million.
Depreciation and amortization for the quarter was $33 million versus $31.9 million last year.
We expect depreciation and amortization to be approximately $125 million in fiscal 2015.
Total long term debt at the end of the quarter was $250 million unchanged from last year.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $27.3 million down $12.7 million compared to last year.
For fiscal 2015 we expect capital expenditures to be approximately $165 million to $180 million.
At this time I will turn the call over to Hanna for the question-and-answer portion of the call.
Hanna? Thank you.
And we'll take our first question from Adam Samuelson with Goldman Sachs.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Adam So I guess the first question in Jennie-O I want to understand – it seems like Jeff the details you gave about a $0.09 to $0.12 or so EPS impact in the second half from AI guidance and the full-year range maintained despite moving towards the low end.
First help us bridge what got better in the rest of the business as you think about the outlook that has allowed you to maintain the EPS range.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well the first half has been a very strong half for us.
Q1 as you recall we were able to raise the guidance range at the conclusion of Q1.
Q2 was also a very strong quarter for us.
And honestly but the for the avian influenza incident we would be talking to you today about raising the guidance range.
So clearly that provided some momentum.
I also have the expectation that the other four business segments will generate positive results year-over-year during the second quarter and we'll then be able to offset much of what's going on at Jennie-O for the half.
Okay that's great.
And maybe at Jennie-O specifically I want to – the guidance – is it – I mean does it reflect kind of the status quo today? I know no more – no further cases of AI in Minnesota or in your facilities or does it give you some cushion for some further outbreaks? And how do you think about the impact into 2016 at this point as you still have to get the barns repopulated and potential volume impact as it slips into next year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We did attempt to bake in at least some sense of okay if there's some added percolation going on there where there might be another outbreak or two and indeed if you look at it over the last two weeks we had one fairly significant barn complex encountered the disease.
So we have tried to factor in that somewhat but also are expecting that the thing should slow down during the summer.
The fall is a wildcard in terms of if and when it comes back.
In terms of next year and we really are not in a position to give you any quantifiable new range for Jennie-O or for the whole company for that matter.
We're just beginning our planning process.
But I do believe it would be fair to say that at this point the outlook for the first half of the year for Jennie-O Turkey Store should be somewhat subdued based on the issues that you've raised.
I mean it is going to take them some time to get back into full production.
I just – I can't tell you whether that 10% to 12% range though that we gave you for the second half is the right range for the first half yet but it probably will be something short of what we experienced this year.
Okay.
And maybe just quickly on that point.
The repopulation of the barns can you walk us through the timeline there? Just help us think through how long it will take to get your volume back to where it was in March? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I can't really give you any precision with that because we're in somewhat new territory.
We're working with the government on that.
It's going to depend in part upon the continuation of no outbreaks for a timeframe.
We do understand that there's recently in Wisconsin the repopulation of a chicken-based facility so it wasn't one of ours but – so the process is at least beginning.
But I really can't give that to you with great precision I mean other than to tell you obviously once we do get the poults in barn I mean it's 22 weeks after that before we would be bringing them to the manufacturing facility for our tom based turkeys.
All right.
Great.
Thanks very much.
I'll pass it on.
Our next question comes from Farha Aslam with Stephens.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Farha.
Inc.</span></strong> Could we talk about your Refrigerated Foods business? The results there were exceptional.
How sustainable are the results in the second quarter? How long do you think the hog commodity tailwind is going to benefit you? And how are you thinking of product innovation in that segment? Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Wow you loaded a lot of questions into one there Farha.
Inc.</span></strong> That's all one yeah.
Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> She is counting it as one.
The hogs we expect supply to be up 5% to 6% for the year so I would assume particularly given the extremely high comps that we had last year due to the disease issues in the industry that we'll see some reasonable hog prices so that's a good thing.
Domestic demand seems to be pretty robust at this point in time.
We do see that exports have fallen a bit so we'll keep an eye on that.
But it's really our value-added businesses that are driving the results for Refrigerated Foods.
They didn't have a big benefit from any pork operating margins this quarter.
It really was the value-added side of the portfolio that was delivering for them.
They came in above our guided range but we'll continue to monitor given the amount of volatility that can occur in that segment.
So I'm not willing to call that this is the new norm going forward.
And innovation? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I just would mention – I mean we received notice here recently that both the REV product and our WHOLLY GUACAMOLE minis were named IRI Pacesetter Top 100 New Items from kind of the last 12 to 18 months of introduction.
Our Foodservice group has really enjoyed some excellent results with their BACON 1 product and also their Fire Braised meats so innovation still is a key component to what we're seeing for success for Refrigerated Foods and our other segments.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then in terms of CytoSport that acquisition was expected to be roughly $0.05 accretive to EPS this year.
Is it on track is it ahead or behind pace? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I mean the first quarter was probably slightly behind.
The second quarter if you look at operating results we were very happy with the results.
They did have the additional $4 million plus charge as we made the decision to close the Benicia plant.
Over time that should enhance operating returns and heading into next year then hopefully we'll be able to increase on that.
But we're still comfortable with that number.
Inc.</span></strong> So still around that $0.05 number? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> For this year.
Inc.</span></strong> Perfect.
Thank you so much.
Our next question comes from Diane Geissler with CLSA.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Diane.
I wanted to ask on the Turkey business so could you give us an idea about given where things stand today and obviously can't know about future outbreaks if that happens but what you expect industry production volumes to be this year down kind of year-on-year for the full year? And then I was also curious to know do you expect sort of ramped up CapEx to maybe I don't know fortify your positions around the barns or whatever to protect from potential future outbreaks? I know we don't get high path AI very often I think the last outbreak was over 10 years ago.
But I guess I'm just curious – it seems to have decimated turkeys and I guess table egg layers.
And so I guess the question is should the industry be spending more to defend against potential future outbreaks and would that include you as well? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Both good questions.
On the expected turkey volumes.
I mean I can tell you the USDA has not modified their number from the 3% to 4% increase that they expected for the industry.
I mean given our experience and given that we're sort of tied for one of the lead players in terms of volume in the industry I guess I have a hard time seeing how those numbers happen if we're going to be short 20% in terms of at least turkeys coming into our system and about 15% net of the meat we're going to have to buy.
So I don't have an adjusted total industry number for you but I guess I'm skeptical as to the industry's ability to hit that 3% to 4% gain number.
In terms of ramped up CapEx I think the theory that you've laid out is probably correct.
We're still a little too early to know exactly what might be required.
But in talking with APHIS and just kind of studying okay what are better ways to potentially prevent this in the future.
And also given the fact that there seems to have been airborne introduction this time and so that may cause some added fan and ventilation requirements that will be different than what we've done in the past.
I think it probably would be safe to assume some additional level of CapEx spending but I don't have any ability to tell you whether – what the delta is versus normal either for Jennie-O or for the total company heading into next year.
Is the AI outbreak covered under any insurance plan you might have business interruption or any other – or is it seen as sort of an act of God and is non-insurable? Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> It's a non-insurable event although as it has been in the press the government helps farmers with birds that they have to euthanize.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Eric Larson with Janney Capital Markets.
Yes.
Thanks for taking the question and good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Eric.
Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Good morning.
Jeff just kind of a strategic question with Jennie-O.
I mean obviously your production is highly concentrated and it is highly efficient obviously with your manufacturing facilities in the upper Midwest Minnesota.
Is there any thought that maybe you should geographically diversify some of your production over time? I mean maybe via an acquisition somewhere that gives you – maybe try to get off the Mississippi flyway or some other thing.
I mean does this prompt some different thoughts strategically how you might run the business? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I guess I would concede that this is – given this unprecedented and rare incident that's kind of exposed a little bit an Achilles' heel to the strategy of being very centralized.
It had been a tremendous advantage in the past in terms of just knowledge of feed within an area and growing practices the ability to move meat from plant to optimize products and so forth.
And indeed all of our facilities are either in Minnesota or Wisconsin.
So whether this is something that then prompts a change in that we're still on the triage mode right now and I guess that's something on a strategic long-term basis I'll be talking with the team about.
But it's a valid question.
Okay thanks.
And then just back to the Refrigerated division again it's very impressive to see the fact that your hog prices are so low but you're able to hold your pricing at retail with your value-added products.
Can you give us a rough idea of what percent of your Refrigerated volume today would be quote value added? And I don't know how you want to define that necessarily whether it's your all marinated products and flavored products.
And is there a way that we can think about that that helps us – because it looks like it's a longer-term positive margin shift for you that's become more apparent in the last 12 months.
Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> So I think we've discussed before that about 70% of our Refrigerated Foods portfolio would be considered value-added.
But understand included in that 70% would even be things that have pricing that's more market-driven such as bacon and hams and our marinated fresh meat.
And even on the Foodservice side some of the contracts they have for items are driven by market forces.
So yeah the team has performed well they have a focus on providing great value for our customers but also making sure that there's a margin left for us.
Okay.
Thanks.
I'll pass it on.
Next we'll go to Mario Contreras with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Mario.
Inc.</span></strong> In terms of M&amp;A how is the company's acquisition pipeline relative to recent quarters? And then secondly does the increased company resources focused on avian flu limit the company's interest in pursuing M&amp;A at least in the near-term? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I guess from a pipeline standpoint I mean we're – I don't have anything different to report than normal.
I mean we certainly have a track record of generating growth through M&amp;A along with our product innovations and doing a better job with our traditional items.
And we continue to look for both family-owned businesses and institutional properties that might come out but I don't have anything to report specifically on that.
In terms of AI clearly it is a time-consuming challenge particularly for the Jennie-O Turkey Store team but it's not having any impact in terms of our overall team's ability to seek out M&amp;A opportunities nor would it have any issues in regard to our ability to finance such a transaction.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thanks.
And then just as a follow-up I guess maybe stepping back a little bit there's been a pretty significant or increasing industry focus on ZBB and overhead reductions.
So how do you feel about Hormel's overall overhead spending? And do you anticipate any changes to the company's strategy regarding that? Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Well I do not plan to announce any special cost reduction initiative.
I think that's kind of the culture that we live by day-by-day.
We always run a pretty lean operation with a lot of processes in place such as Jeff signing off on any salaried employee that's being added to the payroll.
So everything gets a pretty difficult look.
We do – I would argue that we already have been doing zero-based budgeting for many years but we just didn't call it that.
So I'm pleased with the initiatives we have underway with the constant look at expenses and keeping things in line.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
We'll go next to Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey good morning.
This is actually Lubi on for Akshay.
Just with regards to your Jennie-O outlook for the second half can you just talk a little bit about how we should be thinking about the cadence between third quarter and fourth quarter? I mean will it be fairly evenly distributed or do you think things sort of get progressively worse before stabilizing again? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I mean they're both significantly challenged and to a pretty close level is our best shot at it right now.
And we're short the birds already in terms of what's been going on over the last several weeks so we're in it.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thank you.
And then could you provide us maybe an update on how SKIPPY performed during the quarter domestically and internationally and also REV Wraps? Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
SKIPPY on a domestic basis we were pleased that we returned to volume growth and expect that to continue going forward.
We did see with the price decline our net sale number was down.
And as I mentioned in the introductory comments that did squeeze our operating margins a little bit on SKIPPY.
We're happy thus far with the performance of the ad campaign.
We've been able to see demonstrable results in advertised markets that were enhanced over the non-advertised markets.
And we also continue to look for new product innovation and we'll have some things to show the marketplace later this year in that regard in terms of the SKIPPY brand.
Outside of the United States so far our experience in China has been – it's kind of an up and down quarter-to-quarter business.
The second quarter wasn't particularly strong this last quarter but in visiting with the team they're very comfortable that they will see overall growth in terms of the SKIPPY international portfolio for the second half of the year as they have programs in place to generate that.
In terms of REV we're kind of making a little bit of a transition with that product.
We upon advice of some of our trade customers we've changed the case we've changed the product packaging somewhat.
We're trying to attain a price point that we think is going to be able to stimulate the next wave of growth for that item.
And so second quarter kind of was the transition quarter for that.
The new products are now in the marketplace and then we're complementing that with a new ad campaign that just launched at the very end of April.
And early reads on that are positive but we'll be able to give you that full report when Q3 is done.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
I'll pass it on.
Next we'll go to Rachel Nabatian with Credit Suisse.
Hey.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
So I wanted to ask about the normalized margin range for Refrigerated Foods.
With demand for protein being quite strong and pork input costs going longer due to the rising supplies isn't this pretty much an ideal scenario for the Refrigerated Foods division and maybe even Grocery? And do you think that we can assume that margins can stay at the high end of this normalized range for quite some time? Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> I think I addressed it earlier but never hurts to reemphasize.
We're certainly pleased with how the value-added portfolio within Refrigerated Foods delivered for this quarter.
But given the fact that we have pork operating margins as well as a component of commodity sales within that portfolio we're still sticking to our 5% to 8% range and when we see that that's been sustained for a period of time then we'll take a relook at it.
The guidance we've given is for over the longer term and through different types of market cycles.
So I would expect that the value-added piece should still keep going.
Grocery Products definitely should benefit from lower pork input prices particularly on the SPAM family of products and that should help drive their results in the back half.
Great.
And then the pork packing margins that we track has been very good so far this year.
Can you just remind us how this – how the pork processing trend (33:38) flows through your Refrigerated Foods business and how maybe excess supply might benefit that business later on in the year? Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> So it's all in – the pork packing margins or the pork operating margins as we call it are included in the Refrigerated Foods.
And yes they were – they have been lower than last year.
Part of that is due to the – what they call the dropped credits the parts of the animal that traditionally are sold overseas.
And with the port issues and the continued strong dollar we've seen those values go down.
So I think that's impacted the whole industry.
I would expect that some of that may pick up in the back half as we work through the port issues.
I'm not recalling the last part of your question.
Oh yeah I was just wondering if maybe there was too much supply if that might be a benefit for the processing operations.
Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Usually we like to see – low hog prices are the best thing for our operating divisions.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And there are no further questions in queue.
I'd like to turn it back over to the speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Well this is Jeff.
I just wanted to conclude by saying we're very pleased with the record second quarter earnings we were able to announce today.
While the next few months certainly will be challenging for our Jennie-O Turkey Store segment we will look to our experienced team and our balanced business model to deliver a successful year in fiscal 2015.
Thanks everyone for joining us today.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Hormel Foods Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants are in a listen-only mode.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Jana Haynes Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Hormel Foods conference call for the third quarter of fiscal 2015.
We released our results this morning before the market opened around 6:00 AM Eastern Time.
If you did not receive a copy of the release you can find it on our website at hormelfoods.com under the Investors section.
On our call today is Jeff Ettinger Chairman of the Board President and Chief Executive Officer; and Jody Feragen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jeff will provide a review of the operating results for the quarter and then Jody will provide detailed financial results.
The line will be opened for questions following Jody's remarks.
As a courtesy to the other analysts please limit yourself to one question with one follow-up.
If you have additional queries you are welcome to get back in the queue.
An audio replay of this call will be available beginning at 11:00 AM Central Time today August 19 2015.
The dial-in number is 888-203-1112 and the access code is 1732023.
The audio replay will be posted on our website and archived for one year.
Before we get started with the results of the quarter I need to reference the Safe Harbor statement.
Some of the comments made today will be forward-looking and are made under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the statements we will be making.
Among the factors that may affect the operating results of the company are fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw materials and outbreaks of disease among livestock and poultry flocks.
Please refer to pages 34 through 40 in the company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 26 2015 for more details.
It can be accessed on our website.
Also please note the company uses non-GAAP results to provide investors additional information to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations.
Discussion of non-GAAP information is detailed in our press release located on our corporate website.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Jana and good morning everyone.
Earlier today we announced record third quarter non-GAAP earnings of $0.56 per share up 10% over last year with four of our five segments registering gains this quarter.
We generated sales of $2.2 billion a decrease of 4% versus last year on a 3% volume increase.
Sales were lower due to turkey supply shortages in our Jennie-O Turkey Store segment and price deflation in the pork markets primarily impacting sales within our Refrigerated Foods and International segments.
To illustrate the dramatic change in pork markets the average USDA pork cutoff price in July of 2014 was $133 compared to $83 in July of 2015 almost a 40% decrease.
While across the company our team is generally focused on our goal of 5% top line growth in this particular market scenario volume growth may be the more appropriate metric by which to gauge results.
I will now take you through each segment.
Refrigerated Foods finalized the purchase of Applegate near the end of the third quarter on July 13 2015.
I am pleased to welcome the Applegate team to Hormel Foods.
Refrigerated Foods grew operating profit 9% inclusive of incurring $8.6 million in transaction cost related to the acquisition of Applegate.
Results were driven by lower pork input cost and strong performance by our value-added retail and food-service businesses.
Refrigerated Foods sales were down 11% this quarter despite a 2% volume increase.
As I mentioned earlier lower sales were primarily due to pricing decreases on items such as bacon driven by the declining pork market values.
We enjoyed strong sales growth of many of our value-added items during the quarter including retail sales of Hormel pepperoni and Hormel Gatherings party trays and foodservice sales of Hormel Natural Choice deli meats and Hormel Fire Braised meats.
Grocery Products delivered an excellent segment profit increase of 57% on an 8% sales increase.
Segment results were driven by favorable raw material cost and increased sales of SKIPPY peanut butter HORMEL chili and WHOLLY GUACAMOLE refrigerated dips.
WHOLLY GUACAMOLE minis in a single-serve container have been a key driver to the brand's growth this past year.
They squarely meet consumer's desires for portable better-for-use snacking options.
Grocery Products continues to build brand equity and drive sales with marketing support for key items.
Jennie-O Turkey Store segment profit decreased 45% and sales decreased 12%.
Results were impacted by high pathogen avian influenza as flocks lost earlier this year created large volume shortfalls in operations and sales.
We have now repopulated approximately two-thirds of the farms' previously impacted and we expect to complete the repopulation process during the fourth quarter.
While we have been able to purchase some turkey meat from other suppliers to partially offset flock losses Jennie-O Turkey Store continues to estimate approximately 15% lower sales in the fourth quarter versus last year similar to the sales impact in the third quarter.
Our team continues to work closely with government agencies and other organizations as they study this virus and work to control future outbreaks.
Our Specialty Foods segment reported a robust operating profit increase of 79%.
Improvements to the cost structure in the CytoSport and Century Foods operations along with stronger performance in our Specialty Products business benefited results this quarter.
Specialty Foods segment sales increased 31% largely driven by the recently acquired CytoSport business.
The CytoSport team has achieved additional distribution of MUSCLE MILK protein nutrition products with big gains coming from one of our more recent product introductions MUSCLE MILK PRO SERIES.
Innovation is a top priority for our CytoSport business and we look forward to the launch of some great new items currently in the pipeline for our MUSCLE MILK brand.
International &amp; Other segment profit increased 3% while sales declined 6%.
Higher royalties on sales of our SPAM family of products strong performance by our China businesses and increased sales of SKIPPY peanut butter drove the profit gains.
However sales and margins were hampered by significantly lower pork exports due to soft demand in key markets in East Asia.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter we expect Refrigerated Foods to benefit from value-added sales increases and lower input costs.
We look for Grocery Products to deliver another quarter of strong segment profit growth with favorable raw material cost and volume growth in key categories.
Jennie-O Turkey Store will continue to be significantly challenged due to the impacts of avian influenza on our turkey supply chain.
However we do anticipate modest margin improvement as compared to third quarter results.
Specialty Foods should finish the year well based on the fast-paced growth and improved cost structure of our recently acquired MUSCLE MILK protein nutrition products.
And we expect our International segment to continue to face headwinds in the pork export markets over the near term partially offset with anticipated gains from our China businesses.
Given the strong results through three quarters along with our positive outlook for Refrigerated Foods Grocery Products and Specialty Foods as we close the year and better visibility of the impact of avian influenza on Jennie-O Turkey Store in the near term we are raising our fiscal 2015 non-GAAP earnings guidance range from $2.50 to $2.60 per share up to $2.57 to $2.63 per share.
I am proud of our experienced team as we have demonstrated our ability to navigate an unprecedented raw material supply challenge and still be on track to deliver another double-digit increase in earnings in fiscal 2015.
At this time I will turn the call over to Jody Feragen to discuss the financial information relating to the third quarter.
Executive Vice President &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
Earnings for the third quarter of fiscal 2015 totaled $146.9 million or $0.54 per share compared to $138 million or $0.51 per share a year ago.
Excluding the impact of Applegate-related transaction cost of $8.6 million non-GAAP earnings were $0.56 per share.
Consistent with our guidance given on the announcement of the deal we expect the Applegate acquisition to be net neutral to fiscal 2015 earnings.
The bulk of deal-related expenses have been booked in the third quarter.
The non-GAAP adjusted earnings guidance Jeff provided of $2.57 to $2.63 per share for fiscal 2015 assumes this neutral impact on a full year basis for the Applegate acquisition.
Dollar sales for the third quarter totaled $2.19 billion compared to $2.28 billion last year a 4% decrease.
Sales excluding the incremental impact of CytoSport Applegate and MegaMex products that were not included in last year's results were down 10%.
Lower pork prices lower turkey supply and the dissolution of the Precept Foods joint venture were the primary drivers of sales declines compared to last year.
Volume for the third quarter was 1.21 billion pounds increasing 3% from the same period last year.
Tonnage was down 2% excluding the incremental impact of CytoSport Applegate and MegaMex products not included in last year's results.
Selling general and administrative expenses in the third quarter were 8.4% of sales up from 6.7% last year.
Selling general and administrative expenses were higher compared to last year due to increased advertising expense the Applegate deal cost and employee-related expenses.
For the full year we expect selling general and administrative expenses to be approximately 8% of sales.
Advertising expenses for the quarter were $34 million compared to $21 million last year.
The increase was due mostly to advertising expense at CytoSport for the Muscle Milk brand which was acquired last August as well as increased Hormel Brands support in the Refrigerated Foods and Grocery Products segment compared to last year.
Equity and earnings of affiliates was $6.4 million in the third quarter versus $3.5 million last year.
The increase is largely the result of prior-year incentive expenses related to the Fresherized Foods business not repeated this year as well as savings associated with the exit from the international joint venture businesses announced in the first quarter of this year.
Interest expense for the quarter was $3.1 million unchanged from last year.
Our effective tax rate in the third quarter was 35.6% versus 34.7% in fiscal 2014.
For fiscal 2015 we expect the effective tax rate to be between 34.5% and 35%.
The basic weighted average number of shares outstanding for the third quarter was 264.3 million.
The diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding for the third quarter was 270.6 million.
Depreciation and amortization for the quarter was $33.3 million versus $33.5 million last year.
We expect depreciation and amortization to be approximately $130 million in fiscal 2015.
Total long-term debt at the end of the quarter was $250 million unchanged from last year.
The Applegate acquisition was funded in July with cash and $350 million of short-term debt.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $41.8 million up from $34.8 million last year.
For fiscal 2015 we expect capital expenditures to be approximately $155 million to $165 million.
At this time I will turn the call over to the operator for the question-and-answer portion of the call.
Levi? Thank you.
We'll take our first question from Farha Aslam with Stephens.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Farha.
Inc.</span></strong> Congratulations on a good quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> I have questions regarding two of your smaller businesses.
The first one's on Specialty.
How has the restructuring of the supply chain benefited you? And how sustainable do you anticipate those Specialty margins to be? They were pretty strong this current quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> When we announced the Muscle Milk deal we mentioned how one of the benefits we saw was that we did have familiarity and experience within the segment with our Century Foods operation.
They're a manufacturer on the powdered side of that business.
We have taken the opportunity to combine the previous manufacturing capabilities in Benicia with the Sparta Wisconsin-based Century operation.
And you're seeing some of the benefit of that already being reflected in the Q3 results.
Another key area of gains has just been the general management of the business in terms of organizing the sales and marketing structures and so forth and then a lot of top line benefit.
I mean the business is growing very nicely.
We've been able to gain distribution in the food drug and mass channel.
We've been able to rejuvenate the portfolio in the Specialty channel.
We continue to enjoy an excellent relationship with Pepsi in terms of distribution into the convenience channel and also parts of the food drug and mass.
The Muscle Milk franchise on a Nielsen basis the ready-to-drink items grew in the high single-digit levels and the powdered items grew double-digit.
And so that's all contributing to very solid results and I do believe this new level of performance for Specialty Foods should be repeatable in Q4.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful.
And then on International you were quite positive about your Chinese business.
With all that's going on in China could you just share with us your reasons for being positive especially given the more constrained pork supplies in China and then your outlook for that division as it relates to exports of U.S.
pork? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
I mean we're really happy with the performance of the China group.
I mean you look back even four years ago that business was not making money or maybe barely making money.
And this year it's going to be a solidly double-digit returning entity.
We provide niche products in that market particularly to the foodservice channel.
Obviously SKIPPY would be another retail-based item.
And so to us at least so far the macro level things going on with their currency and their stock market and so forth we really have not seen any detrimental impact to our sales capabilities or our margins on that business.
In terms of exports it was a more challenging quarter for International.
We've had some port issues.
Obviously there was the U.S.
port issues earlier in the year that was less of an effect in Q3.
We continue to have Philippine-based port issues though that did impact Q3 results.
We've seen a little bit of a turndown in demand in some of the key Asian markets particularly Korea and China that we sell some of our products to.
So that was a more challenging area.
I mean typically for the last four years you've seen International deliver top line and bottom line double-digit growth and we clearly haven't done that the last couple of quarters.
So we need to turn that around.
But notwithstanding that I mean China is growing double-digits SKIPPY is growing double-digits.
So we're very high on what International should be able to achieve overall.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you for the added color.
We'll take our next question from Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Hi.
Thanks for the question.
I guess a couple questions.
One is that I definitely understand the declining export environment into China.
And I guess my concern had been that it might lead to excess supplies domestically.
And certainly you're already seeing the price of cuts of pork falling quite a bit.
Jeff is there any concern that the declining values could lead to more I guess price competition for bacon and for cold cuts and then threaten the spreads that you're getting on the value-added side and then perhaps even the packing spreads as well? Executive Vice President &amp; Director</span></strong> So Jeff's pointing at me Rob.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> She's our resident expert.
Executive Vice President &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
I do agree.
Hog supplies are up and prices are low which have been a benefit to our value-added franchises and we do have some items that are considered more supply chain such as bacon and ham that will move with pricing but we've been able to maintain a nice margin profile.
And then we have a lot of our portfolio that just doesn't move quite as rapidly with changes in market conditions such as the items Jeff called out being pepperoni and the party tray business.
We're fully expecting hog supplies to continue to increase for the balance of the year.
Exports will remain a wild card if you will.
I think the USDA is calling for them to be up over 4% for the year when they're down 4% through June.
So we'll see if that happens or not.
Pork operating margins have been lower than last year.
We saw extremely high results last year in our third quarter.
We're expecting them to be say neutral to our results for the fourth quarter.
So that's kind of my take on the pork markets.
Hopefully I answered all your questions.
Yeah.
I mean to the degree that it's possible.
I guess as you look at fiscal 2016 is it fair to say that you could still have a very very strong year in Refrigerated just because of the value-added pricing powers there or is it kind of a year where you're like well maybe it's kind of more of a normalized year? Because your margins are well above your normalized levels and that was just my thinking about 2016.
Executive Vice President &amp; Director</span></strong> So right now we are just in the beginning of putting together our assumptions and market conditions for our 2016 planning process.
So I really can't even comment on what we're thinking at this point in time.
We do continue to believe that our value-added franchises should continue to grow as well as provide nice margin results.
So we'll give you an update on 2016 on our next call.
Okay.
I'll get back in the queue.
Thanks.
We'll go to our next question from Diane Geissler with CLSA.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Diane.
So I wanted to ask about Applegate which I appreciate you've owned for about 30 days.
But you did give some commentary on your expectations for fiscal 2015 I think net neutral to EPS this year.
As you make your way through the transition process of bringing that on to your books et cetera is there anything that you've seen would makes you more excited or less excited? And then Jody I wanted to ask on the debt that you took on for that.
I think you said short-term so I think there's a bit contingent of us on the Street that's looking for you guys to really kind of lever up your balance sheet.
But to me it sounds like you've taken on some short-term debt to fund that and you probably will pay that off with cash flow in the next 12 months.
Is that how we should be thinking about that? I'm just trying to model your interest heading into 2016.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I'll take the first part.
We're still very excited about Applegate.
As you point out I mean it's been a month counting today and if you really look at the quarterly results I mean you're talking barely even a couple of weeks of results.
However if you just look at the general business trends they're still rocking along at double-digit growth rates and we're very excited about the ability of that franchise to connect with consumers.
A lot of activity has been going on in terms of getting the teams to meet each other and seeing if there are opportunities to take advantage of each other's capabilities.
But we're still very high on what Applegate should be able to deliver for us in Q4 and beyond.
Executive Vice President &amp; Director</span></strong> So as far as the debt you are correct.
We are expecting to have any outstanding amounts repaid in 2016 I would say mid-year which leaves us with a very good balance sheet capable of taking on other opportunities and we continue to look for strategic investments whether it's internally or externally through acquisitions.
Okay.
Great.
And then just a quick question on JOTS and AI.
I mean you're repopulating.
It sounds like you'd be fully repopulated by the end of the fourth quarter.
Is there less risk during this upcoming migration? Because the wild birds are going from the northern tier to the southern tier or do you – are you at all concerned that there's going to be sort of another kind of flurry of AI activity that would put those newly repopulated birds at risk for contagion again.
I'm just trying to – sounds like you're filling up the barns and there's a little bit of risk associated with that.
I mean what are you feeling about that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think your last line just summed it up very well.
We are filling up the barns but there clearly is at least a little bit of risk associated with that.
We've heard a similar theory as to perhaps birds go south faster than they come north and they may not linger as long in the areas and so that might be a positive factor.
But I mean at this point it's just such a wild card.
I mean this was an unprecedented incident already.
We're trying to learn from it the government's trying to learn from it.
It could hit other parts of the country it could hit another time of the year it could go away it could come back in a smaller manner.
And so we're trying to be ready for any contingency.
And the best I can tell you right now is we haven't had a system outbreak since early June and that frankly even if something did hit this fall it won't affect 2015 results.
Because I mean you just wouldn't see the loss of bird flow that quickly.
But by the time we're talking again in November we should have a much better sense of whether something seems to be occurring on a fall basis this year or not and what potential impact that might have.
Even if nothing occurs however and as we indicated the last call I mean with the 22-week lifespan and with egg shortages and so forth I mean we're expecting volume struggles even in the first half of next year until we cycle through this.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you for the additional color.
We'll go to our next question from Adam Samuelson with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning.
This is Jason filling in for Adam.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Jason.
So Grocery volumes were flat year-over-year in 3Q after falling 3% to 5% for the prior four quarters? Do you think this is reflective of easy comps or some of the efforts that you've made to stabilize volumes in that segment? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well we'd like to think the latter but I mean I would acknowledge there's some element of the former going on.
The Grocery results continue to be – I mean you really have to kind of read them carefully in the sense that one of the things we pull out is the Fresherized sales.
But when you pull out sort of both years' worth of Fresherized sales I mean you're neglecting the fact that that's one of our fastest growing franchises.
That's a double-digit gainer when you look at it on a apples-to-apples basis.
So we're excited about that.
We had double-digit gains from HORMEL chili this quarter.
We had gains from Dinty Moore and Mary Kitchen hash.
So it's all – a number of items doing quite well.
SPAM was down slightly after last quarter being up 10% so that franchise overall I'm really quite content with where they're headed.
So overall – and then SKIPPY had a good quarter which we're happy to see.
Overall I think that the trend for Grocery is positive.
I'm happy to see the changes that have been made.
All right.
Thank you very much.
We'll go to our next question from Ken Zaslow with BMO Capital Markets.
Hi.
This is Patrick filling in for Ken.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Patrick.
You kind of touched on this earlier.
Can you discuss or give a little bit more color on the pricing environment across some of your key categories especially with the input prices declining? I guess is promotional and pricing activity picking up or which category you should see limited pricing? Executive Vice President &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Obviously those items that are more supply-chain related bacon and ham would have it as well as any fresh items our flavored fresh items and small amount of commodity will move with the marketplace.
We do have a large foodservice business.
Some of those contracts have levers that react to marketplaces.
But I think the team has done a really nice job of looking at really stressing and selling the innovative items that we have in the marketplace and those have a tendency to not be as volatile to commodity price movements.
Great.
And just a quick follow-up.
I guess we were expecting your deli customers to switch from high-priced turkey breasts to hams.
That hasn't really played out.
Do you expect that to happen sometime soon over the next couple of months next year? What are your thoughts on that? Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I mean it's not just a matter of the price.
I mean realistically we have seen within both the Hormel deli group and the Jennie-O deli group we've not been able to fill orders on a complete basis.
We've been on an allocation to customers an allocation internally.
And so clearly we've made the effort to try to convert some of those sales into ham-based items and we've seen some of that go on.
But overall it's not just the price that's constraining our ability to service the deli with turkey right now.
Great.
Thank you.
I'll pass it along.
We'll go to our next question from Mario Contreras with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Mario.
Inc.</span></strong> I just wanted to ask first in the Jennie-O Turkey segment can you confirm how much I guess of the volume loss how much of that was loss of your supply versus external purchases that sort of helped bridge the gap? And then I guess in addition to that as far as the EBIT headwinds how much of that was volume deleveraged versus again the higher cost of these external purchases? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well on the first question I mean I can give you – it's not exactly an apples-to-apples but it'll give you directionally what we're talking about.
I mean the bird loss if you will ended the system near 20%.
And then when you netted it out and there's some price differential here I mean it was a 12% sales drop.
So we were able to buy in some meat mostly on the dark meat side during the quarter in order to try to mitigate that effect.
And we're looking at similar levels for Q4 realistically.
In terms of the EBITDA drop I mean I really don't have a way of quantifying exactly what's what.
I mean there were some costs in the live production system that were reimbursed by the government.
There were some costs that weren't.
When you're that short in volume in your plants that creates all sorts of overhead issues.
When you literally don't have products to sell I mean you're losing that margin and that volume.
So there were all those factors combined that moved us down from the kind of run rate Jennie-O had been operating at to what we thought we would hit and what we did hit this quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I see.
And then one follow-up moving to the Refrigerated Foods segment.
There has been some consolidation in the pork industry a couple of your key competitors looks like there's a pending consolidation going on there.
Is there any impact on your strategy? I mean how does – does that change the way that you fit into the industry? What are your thoughts on that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I don't think it really does.
I mean our philosophy when it comes to pork is we do want to control our own destiny and we have for years so even years ago when Oscar Mayer and Sara Lee chose to get out of being vertical in hog processing and rely on others for their meat supply we made the decision to stick with it.
And frankly as the industry consolidates to me that decision is even more firm that we need to be able to control our own destiny.
That being said we've never tried to be one of the big players when it comes to pork slaughter.
And so we're still four five six somewhere in that range and I would expect us to stay there.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
We'll go to another question from Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Wow.
Look how fast this call goes without Akshay around.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> He'll be back next quarter.
I'm sure he's listening to it.
Hi Akshay.
Sure he is.
But SKIPPY just one point of question here.
In the Nielsen data it did not show really much growth at all in SKIPPY and you had said it had a really good quarter.
So is there something that we're not seeing there maybe some alternative products that are doing well on test or channels that are not being measured? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I probably should let Jana follow up with you rather than speculate on that.
I just know in terms of our shipment data domestically it was a solid quarter both for volume and net sales.
Outside of the U.S.
it was a double-digit gain but that wouldn't be – being reflected in the data you're looking at.
But why don't I let her give you some added color as to the match-up of Nielsen versus the shipments.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
It would seem at this time we have no further questions.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Hey I'd like to just make a little concluding statement.
2015 is shaping up to be an excellent year in terms of earnings growth for the company.
Based on the increased non-GAAP earnings guidance range of $2.57 to $2.63 per share we would expect to deliver a 15% to 18% earnings increase over our record performance in fiscal 2014.
Our balanced business model has again allowed us to limit volatility in a challenging supply situation while our experienced team has demonstrated their ability to navigate changing market conditions and continue to drive growth.
Thank you all for joining us today.
That concludes today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Hormel Foods Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants are in a listen-only mode.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Jana Haynes Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Ma'am.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Hormel Foods conference call for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015.
We released our results this morning before the market opened around 6:30 AM Eastern Time.
If you did not receive a copy of the release you can find it on our website at hormelfoods.com under the Investors section.
On our call today is Jeff Ettinger Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Snee President and Chief Operating Officer and Jody Feragen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jeff will provide a review of the operating results for the quarter and then Jim will comment on our outlook and guidance for fiscal 2016.
Jody will provide detailed financial results for the quarter and the year.
The line will be opened for questions following Jody's remarks.
As a courtesy to the other analysts please limit yourself to one question with one follow-up.
If you have additional queries you are welcome to get back into the queue.
An audio replay of this call will be available beginning at 11:30 AM Central Time today November 24 2015.
The dial-in number is 888-329-8893 and the access code is 6355504.
It will also be posted to our website and archived for one year.
Before we get started with the results of the quarter I need to reference the Safe Harbor statement.
Some of the comments made today will be forward-looking and are made under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the statements we will be making.
Among the factors that may affect the operating results of the Company are fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw materials and market conditions for finished products.
Please refer to pages 34 through 40 in the Company's 10-Q filed on September 4 2015.
It can be accessed on our website.
Additionally please note the Company uses non-GAAP results to provide investors with the better understanding of the Company's operating performance by excluding the impact of certain non-recurring items effecting comparability.
Discussion of non-GAAP information is detailed in our press release located on our corporate website.
Please note that during our call we will refer to these non-GAAP results as adjusted earnings.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thanks very much Jana and good morning everyone.
We are pleased to report a strong finish to fiscal 2015.
Adjusted earnings in the fourth quarter were a record $0.74 per share up 17% from last year.
Sales for the quarter were $2.4 billion down 6%.
For the full year the Company earned and adjusted $2.64 per share representing an 18% increase over fiscal 2014.
On an adjusted basis all five segments registered earnings growth this year.
Sales for the full year were $9.3 billion a decrease of 1%.
Lower sales for the quarter and the year were primarily due to turkey supply shortages in our Jennie-O Turkey Store segment and price deflation in the pork markets impacting sales within our Refrigerated Foods and International segments.
I will now take you through each segment.
Grocery Products operating profit was up 57% in the quarter.
Normalized input costs and improved productivity drove the gains.
Sales grew 4% this quarter led by SKIPPY peanut butter DINTY MOORE stew HORMEL chilly and WHOLLY GUACAMOLE dips.
For the year adjusted segment profit was up 23% and sales were up 4%.
We are especially pleased with the sales growth of our SKIPPY peanut butter products given a price decrease in the peanut butter category earlier this year.
We continue to build momentum in our snacking portfolio with excellent results from our WHOLLY GUACAMOLE minis along with positive early reads on our most recent innovation SKIPPY P.B.
Bites!.
Refrigerated Foods' fourth quarter segment profit increased 27% with sales down 5% and volume up 2%.
For the full year operating profit in this segment was up 26% and sales decreased 6% on a volume increase of 1%.
Results in the fourth quarter were driven by nice increases by our affiliated foods businesses higher pork operating margins the addition of the APPLEGATE business and an improved product mix.
Our Refrigerated Foods team had a heightened focus on margin expansion this year and has made nice strides.
Lower dollar sales reflect price reductions on some items compared to last year's record high pork markets and the dissolution of Precept Foods the latter of which we will have lapped after this quarter.
Our Foodservice group continues to deliver innovative solutions for foodservice operators with notable growth on items such as our HORMEL Fire Braised meats and HORMEL pizza toppings.
On the retail side of the business HORMEL pepperoni HORMEL refrigerated entrees and HORMEL GATHERINGS party trays delivered sales gains this quarter.
We have owned the APPLEGATE business for a few months now and we are pleased with its performance constrained partially by the availability of pork and turkey raw materials during the quarter.
The APPLEGATE team remains on track to deliver results consistent with our initial guidance for this business.
Jennie-O Turkey Store fourth quarter segment profit declined 23% on an 18% sales decrease.
For the full year operating profit was up 1% and sales decreased 2%.
Results were impacted by high pathogen avian influenza as flocks lost earlier this year created large volume shortfalls in operations and sales.
We have now completed the repopulation of all of our turkey barns.
We've not experienced any new outbreaks thus far into the fall migration of wild birds.
While we have been able to purchase some turkey meat to partially offset flock losses turkey breast prices remain at a record high due to overall industry shortages.
Our team continues to work closely with government agencies and other organizations as they study this virus and work to control future outbreaks and with our customers as we managed through the turkey breast meat shortages.
We have made many adjustments and are prepared to minimize any future impact to our operations in the event that the virus returns to our area as the migration season progresses.
Our Specialty Foods segment reported an adjusted operating profit increase of 155%.
Muscle Milk sport nutrition products sales increased nicely though the gain was not enough to offset some reductions in contract packaging sales leading to a net 3% decrease in overall segment sales this quarter.
Full year results for Specialty Foods showed adjusted operating profit of 48% with sales up 22%.
The positive fourth quarter segment profit results reflect synergies captured within the CytoSport and Century Foods supply chain and a beneficial comparison to last year CytoSport acquisition related costs of $9.3 million.
The CytoSport acquisition is meeting our valuation expectations.
We have decided to explore the sale of a portion of our Diamond Crystal Brands business.
While the business is still performing acceptably we feel it no longer fits within our strategic priorities.
We will pursue a sale over the course of the next few months allowing us to redeploy capital and investments that better support our growth goals.
International's fourth quarter operating profit increased 3% on flat dollar sales and a 5% higher volume.
Results were driven by strong SPAM luncheon meat exports and continued growth of our China business muted by soft demand for fresh pork exports in certain markets.
For the full year adjusted operating profit in the International segment was up 4% on flat sales.
In October the leader of our International segment for the past few years Jim Snee was elected to the position of President and Chief Operating Officer and was appointed to our Board of Directors.
Jim is only the 10th President in our Company's 124-year history.
In his new capacity Jim will be responsible for all five reporting segments.
While the finance functions including M&amp;A R&amp;D legal supply chain and human resources will continue to report to me.
Jim's vast experience in both our Refrigerated Foods segment and our emerging growth markets internationally position him exceptionally well to take on these additional responsibilities.
I will now turn the call over to Jim to discuss our long-term segment margin guidance and 2016 outlook.
Thank you Jeff.
Good morning to all of you.
Looking ahead to fiscal 2016 we expect renewed revenue growth as the year proceeds.
Grocery Products should benefit from improved pork and beef input costs this year especially as compared to the first half of 2015.
Along with positive sales trends for our key product lines including WHOLLY GUACAMOLE dips SKIPPY peanut butter and our SPAM family of products we have made significant improvements in manufacturing efficiencies over this past year giving us the confidence to raise our long-term Grocery Products segment operating margin guidance from 12% to 14% up to the 13% to 15% range going forward.
Our value-added businesses and Refrigerated Foods should benefit from favorable raw material costs and the segment is positioned to start the year with strong earnings momentum.
We expect modestly lower pork operating margins and hog prices in 2016 and plan to increase pork production by 1% to 2% over fiscal 2015.
While Refrigerated Foods clearly benefited from favorable market conditions in 2015 our team has also made significant progress in their efforts to improve product mix and drive sustainable margin improvements.
Given these advancements we are increasing our long-term segment profit margin range from 5% to 8% up to 7% to 10% going forward.
We look for Jennie-O Turkey Store to return to growth in the back half of the year if there are no significant recurrences of highly pathogenic avian influenza.
Volumes will remain constrained in the early part of the year as we continue to rebuild our system after significant bird losses last spring.
In addition to lower volumes Jennie-O Turkey Store is also facing difficult comparisons to fiscal 2015's strong first half performance.
We expect turkey breast meat prices to remain elevated until the industry can see the impact of the spring bird migration.
Lower grain input costs will be a tailwind in 2016.
In terms of long-term segment profit margin guidance we are modestly tightening our guidance range for Jennie-O Turkey Store previously at 13% to 17% narrowed to 14% to 17%.
We expect the Specialty Foods segment to deliver increases through the growth of our MUSCLE MILK protein nutrition products.
Protein nutrition products remain on trend and promising new products in our innovation pipeline for this category should continue to drive success.
Our long-term segment margin guidance for Specialty Foods remains at 8% to 11%.
Though we are encouraged to see their upward migration within this range the range does include contributions from the Diamond Crystal Brands business.
If a sale occurs we will provide an updated guidance range for this segment.
We look for the International segment to achieve year-over-year improved results through increased sales of our SPAM luncheon meat and SKIPPY peanut butter products along with expansion of our China business.
We are maintaining our long-term International segment margin guidance at 14% to 17%.
From a total Company perspective in light of the improved ranges mentioned we are increasing our operating profit margins range from 9% to 12% to a new range of 10% to 13% reflecting our current business structure product mix and typical market volatility.
Deporting our brands remains the top focus for us.
In 2016 we are planning a double-digit increase in advertising support over the prior year.
We will focus advertising dollars on REV's snack Wraps HORMEL GATHERINGS party trays HORMEL pepperoni our SPAM family of products SKIPPY peanut butter MUSCLE MILK protein rich products and in the back half of the year we expect to reignite our Jennie-O Make The Switch campaign.
The MegaMex joint venture will also continue to provide significant marketing support to the wholly and [Herdez] brands of Mexican food products.
We also plan to reinvest in our business through higher capital investments in fiscal 2016.
We expect to complete the construction of our new plant in [Zhanjiang] China and start production there by the end of 2016.
Here in the U.S.
we intend to increase capacity for our HORMEL bacon products and Jennie-O fresh turkey tray pack items.
Additionally we plan to expand our research and development capabilities through the construction of a newest new facility to support our team's constant focus on food safety quality and innovation.
After taking these significant factors into account we've established our fiscal 2016 earnings guidance range at $2.85 to $2.95 per share.
At this time I will turn the call over at Jody Feragen to discuss the financial information relating to the fourth quarter and fiscal 2015.
Thank you Jim.
Good morning everyone.
On a GAAP basis net earnings for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 totaled $187.2 million up 9% over last year.
GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.69 a 10% increase.
Excluding non-recurring charges adjusted net earnings for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 totaled $199.9 million up 17% from net earnings of $171.3 million last year.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.74 up 17% compared to $0.63 per share a year ago.
As Jeff mentioned we made the decision to sell a portion of the Diamond Crystal Brands business.
This business has now been classified as held for sale and asset impairment tests were performed as part of the evaluation process.
The fourth quarter included pre-tax non-recurring charges of $21.5 million relating to a goodwill impairment charge for this business and that is reflected in our Specialty Foods segment.
We also had a positive $8.9 million adjustment due to a reduction of a contingent consideration liability related to the CytoSport acquisition.
This adjustment was due to an updated evaluation of the earn-out targets associated with the acquisition.
The CytoSport earn-out agreement requires aggressive financial targets to be met and sales got off to a slower start than anticipated in the earn-out.
To be clear CytoSport continues to meet the base business case used in our valuations.
For the full year adjusted earnings per share were $2.64 representing an 18% increase over last year with all five segments contributing to the earnings growth.
Sales for the fourth quarter totaled $2.4 billion compared to $2.5 billion for the same period last year a 6% decrease.
Sales were down 10% excluding the incremental impact of APPLEGATE and MegaMex products not included in last year's results.
Lower pork prices turkey supply shortages due to high path avian influenza and the dissolution of the Precept Foods joint venture were the primary drivers of sales declines compared to last year.
For the full year dollar sales were $9.3 billion down less than 1% compared to last year.
Volume for the fourth quarter was 1.3 billion pounds down 2% from fiscal 2014.
The decrease was primarily the result of lower sales for the Jennie-O Turkey Store segment.
For the full year volume was 5.1 billion pounds up 2% over the prior year.
Selling general and administrative expenses in the fourth quarter were 7.9% of sales compared to 6.5% last year.
For the full year selling general and administrative expenses were 8% of sales compared to 7% last year.
We expect selling general and administrative expenses to be approximately 8% of sales for fiscal 2016.
Advertising expense for the fourth quarter was $29.6 million compared to $22.4 million last year.
Full year 2015 advertising expense was $145 million compared to $114 million last year.
Equity in earnings of affiliates was $8 million in the fourth quarter versus $5.7 million last year.
The increase is largely the result of improved earnings at our MegaMex joint venture.
Interest expense for the quarter was $3.8 million compared to $3.4 million last year.
Year-to-date interest expense was $13.1 million up from $12.7 million last year.
We expect interest expense to be approximately $14 million for fiscal 2016.
Our effective tax rate in the fourth quarter was 35.2% versus 34.1% in fiscal 2014.
The year-to-date effective tax rate was 35% compared to 34.3% last year.
For fiscal 2016 we expect the effective tax rate to be approximately 34%.
The basic weighted average number of shares outstanding for the fourth quarter and full year were 264.3 million and 264.1 million respectively.
The diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding for the fourth quarter and full year were 270.9 million and 270.5 million shares respectively.
We repurchased 400 000 shares of common stock spending $24.9 million in the fourth quarter.
We have 7.8 million shares remaining to be purchased from the current authorization in place.
Long-term debt at the end of the quarter was $250 million unchanged from last year.
During the fourth quarter we paid down $165 million of the $350 million short-term debt associated with the APPLEGATE acquisition.
The remaining $185 million is expected to be repaid in fiscal 2016.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $47.3 million unchanged from last year.
For the full year capital expenditures totaled $144.1 million compared to $159.1 million last year.
The primary driver for the lower capital expenditures was our decision to delay the addition of capacity for Jennie-O fresh tray pack products in the face of lower turkey supply in 2015.
We plan to move forward with this project in 2016 assuming there are no significant recurrences of avian influenza.
For 2016 we expect capital expenditures to be approximately $250 million as several projects in process during 2015 are completed in 2016 including the construction of a new plant in China and other projects Jim mentioned earlier.
Depreciation and amortization for the quarter was $34.4 million compared to $32.9 million last year.
For the full year depreciation and amortization was $133 million compared to $130 million last year.
We expect depreciation and amortization to be approximately $130 million in fiscal 2016.
As Jim mentioned earlier we have established a fiscal earnings guidance range at $2.85 to $2.95 per share for 2016.
This guidance includes a full year of contributions from our Diamond Crystal business.
When a sale of the business occurs we will provide updated earnings guidance.
Fiscal 2016 also includes an extra week in the fourth quarter.
We have assumed the 53rd week will contribute approximately 1% of the earnings increase over last year in our guidance range.
We announced a $0.16 per share increase to the annual dividend making a new dividend $1.16 per share.
This represents a 16% increase on top of a 25% increase last year and marks the 50th consecutive year in which we have increased our dividend rate.
At this time I will turn the call over to the operator for questions and answers.
Operator? Thank you.
The question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically.
[Operator Instructions].
And our first question we'll hear from Adam Samuelson with Goldman Sachs.
Hey yes thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
So I guess more detail on the margin so let's say in the quarter and in the outlook the normalize ranges that you provided.
Maybe in the quarter can you provide a little more clarity on and especially in Grocery and Jennie-O the very sharp year-over-year margin improvement that you saw and maybe give a little more color on the drivers there? Was it simply timing of raw materials manufacturing efficiencies mix a little bit more granularity there? And then on the long-term target I appreciate you updating the long-term ranges but I'm just trying to think about where you are today and especially Grocery Refrigerated and Jennie-O still running near at the high-end of the ranges that you've laid out and thinking about the contributors to earnings growth going forward if you still think your margins are near the high-end of the normalized range? Thanks.
Thanks Adam this is Jeff.
So in terms of the current quarter on the Grocery Products side what we feel we're seeing is a return to normalized margins in terms of some of the raw material inputs coupled with some systemic changes in our overall operations environment while we feel we have added efficiencies that will stick and we attribute that to the strong quarter they just generated and also that was why we have now increased that earnings guidance range by 1% on either end for the Grocery Products group.
In the case of Jennie-O Turkey Store you'll recall we provided our best shot at what our second half adjusted guidance range would be in light of avian influenza and it pulled the range down to the 10% to 12% range.
We certainly did see better returns in that in the fourth quarter on the aggregate for the half that turned out to be closer to 14%.
They were able to do better on some of the dark meat-based items than we originally anticipated and they did a nice job of obtaining as much efficiency as possible in their operations.
In the case of Jennie-O Turkey Store you will see we really are not changing the upper end of the guidance range but we did tighten up the bottom end like partially to their success and being able to achieve what they did this quarter.
The only other thing I guess I would add in terms of the long-term target ranges is clearly the Refrigerated Foods group with their performance this year broke out of the previous range and we were at a 5% to 8% range and they exceeded 9% this year.
We have confidence in that business unit’s ability to maintain margins and grow them over time from that level and hence we've raised that guidance range to the 7% to 10% range.
Specialty Foods have seen improvement within the range as Jim indicated in his comments but the overall results for the year are still within the guidance range we had previously provided so we're leaving that unchanged especially with the DCB issue still lurking out there.
Overall what we felt it added up to was a 100 basis points change in the total Company margins and so we're looking at now 10% to 13% as being what we think we can look at going forward versus the 9% to 12% we had previously provided.
It's very helpful Jeff.
And maybe just on Refrigerated piece as you think look about the 200 basis points increase in the range there would you attribute that to any particular part of the business? Bacon comes to mind as an area that's been seems to be particularly strong this year or really just manufacturing efficiencies and value-added mix any more color there? It's been a strong performance all the way around and we think it's a sustainable progress with these brands.
Bacon is clearly a shining spot for that group both on the meat products and foodservice side.
While both of those value-added units had excellent results beyond just the bacon franchise as we mentioned some of the brands that did well in the release pepperoni and party trays and entrees for the Refrigerated Foods retail group and then on the foodservice side pizza toppings and Fire Braised meats and other items.
The affiliated part of Refrigerated Foods which is our Farmer John Burke and Dan's Prize operations all had excellent years and contributed nicely to the results and they too as I mentioned with Grocery we've tried to attain some long-term efficiencies Refrigerated Foods certainly has not been quiet in that respect also.
And so it all really adds up to that new level that they are now able to attain.
And next we'll move on to Farha Aslam with Stephens Inc.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Could you share with us your pork margin basic pork margin estimates for this year and also if that's factored into your guidance and then the longer-term outlook what's kind of in your longer-term guidance? Sure.
I guess everybody is pointing at me Farah.
I have to take the pork's operating margin question.
So certainly they were stronger than we expected in the fourth quarter and moving into the first quarter of 2016 they are pretty robust.
I would expect as the year goes on that those will trend downward and we'll see modestly lower pork operating margins.
Supply seems to be robust.
Demand at this point in time is robust as well so that's basically what we factored into our business model going forward.
Really this was the first quarter where we saw pork operating margins for Refrigerated business unit being a contributor to the year-over-year results and that's really been an improvement on their mix and the value-added products.
And just as a follow-up.
Could you talk about the recovery in the turkey business and the timing of that recovery? What we're seeing in terms of the supply challenges fortunately it's been a benign fall thus far and there is obviously close watch even in terms a wild bird testing to make sure that we're not encountering the renewed presence of high pathogen avian influenza and kind of knock on wood thus far we've not seen that.
We were able to completely refill our barns but as we talked about before the primary turkey for most of our value-added items is our tom turkeys.
It's a 22-week market cycle and so we will not been fully back to normalized volumes throughout the earliest of second quarter of fiscal 2016.
That being said the team has done the best job they can with making sure that we have the product allocated fairly among our customers in terms of what is available.
And then ultimately as Jim indicated if everything continues to go well and we don't have any further outbreaks we should be in a position by second half of next year to renew our successful Make The Switch advertising campaign and restimulate growth for Jennie-O Turkey Store brand.
And next we'll move on to Kenneth Zaslow with BMO Capital.
Hey good morning.
This is Patrick Chen in for Ken.
A quick question about pork exports we understand that China has opened its borders again to a couple of processing plants including yours.
Just wondering what the broad implications are for your pork exports your pork margins and input costs for other parts of your business? Thank you.
Good morning Patrick this is Jim.
Last year 2015 was a struggle with the pork exports especially in our International business.
One of the bigger contributing factors was when Russia banned the imports from the European Union that supply had to go somewhere and it did find its way into the Asian market in general at similar favorable currency rates and so more supply favorable rates really were almost a perfect storm against us last year.
Certainly the opening up of the China market and the approval of our plants while we don't export pork directly into the China markets because of their ractopamine or lack of ractopamine requirement what we do think it'll do though is really maybe redistribute the supply of the available product.
And so as we're looking into 2016 for our pork exports in the International business specifically we think sometime in the second quarter the back half of the year we'll be able to return to more normalized levels of our export business which is still a very important part to our overall International business.
Great thank you.
I'll pass it on.
And next we'll move to Heather Jones with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Good morning.
Hey Heather.
I had a question first on your pork business.
Talking about it sounded like you have a pretty bullish outlook on the fresh pork side.
And one thing that we've been hearing from a number of companies in the industry is that you were looking at the USDA cutout? Just how that's trending? Is there seem to be a widening gap between what USDA is reporting on that cutout and what company are seeing on a blended basis? And I understand you guys have not a value-add but just wondered if you're seeing a similar trend so that maybe the USDA cutout is not as good proxy as it used to be for just trend for pork prices? I'm not familiar with where your data is coming from but one of the contributing factors could be the fact that the drop credits that are not included in the cutout have significantly declined from normalized type level so that could be causing some of it -- those are credits or items that aren't traditionally sold in the U.S.
or byproducts of the productive process.
Yeah I was talking about on the cutout specifically but it sounds like you're not seeing same things.
On your Jennie-O business what do we understand Hormel is backwards integrated back to the greeters where it's quite a bit your competitors not so it sounds as if Hormel's Jennie-O's volumes may return to normal borrowing another operate quicker [indiscernible] overall industry will return to normal from the volume perspective.
It's what we understand basically on our conversations.
And I guess my question is I understand the difficult comparisons for the first half but as we're thinking about late Q2 and Q3 I know a lot of your business is valued-added and more fixed price contract type of thing but the part that is on the market should we see some benefit from you guys having your volume return to normal quicker than the overall industry and there is still being benefit from some elevated pricing? Well Heather.
Let me I guess make sure we're on the same page in terms of the verticality of the Jennie-O operation.
We don't actually engage in the breeder stock we do have our own hatcheries so we do have a direct egg source.
Our egg experience from what we're seeing in the industry maybe a little bit better than the overall industry number but that's as close as I can get to being able to compare ours to others.
In terms of that the second half outlook we've frankly been the leader when it comes to branded value-added products for some time.
I mean we're the one that's advertising.
We're a local company that creates innovative new products.
We have a dedicated team that focuses on the sale those items into multiple channels and so definitely if we have the supply in place that team is primed and ready to renew our momentum of growing the value-added businesses indeed.
I mean before this thing hit in the first half of this year all three of our groups the Retail deli and Foodservice at Jennie-O Turkey Store their value-added sales were all up double-digit so they were really on a roll here and we would expect during the second half of this year if we have the meat supplies available and can turn the advertising back on to renew that kind of growth.
And next we'll move to Diane Geissler - CLSA.
I just wanted to ask on Diamond Crystal.
So you obviously took a charge there I'm assuming that's in anticipation of potential sale.
Can you help us just how big is that business and what are its topic contribution then so as we model out this year we can kind of get an idea for what the potential dilution to your EPS would be? So I don't think we specifically called out any profitability numbers on that business and we will provide you the appropriate guidance when we do have a transaction to talk about.
From the sales perspective it's about $250 million to $260 million without a margin structure that's generally lower than the guided range that we have further Specialty Foods segment.
We'll try to help you when we have something to talk about.
Okay.
I appreciate just given quantification on the size of the business.
And then Patrick ask about China so you talked about the plant additional CapEx this fiscal year to finish the construction there.
How do you think about the timing in terms of obviously for SPAM etcetera that's been a product that you had introduced [indiscernible] poll.
Can you just kind of talk about what your plans are with regard to when the plant is up and running and how long you think it will take to get products kind of out of the door and under shelves and just kind of the maybe a longer-term 12 to 24 months outlook on your business in China.
Thank you.
Thanks Diane and this is Jim.
Our business in China really has been performing exceptionally well here over the last couple of years.
That team is really hit their strides.
In terms of needed capacity the sooner we complete this plant the better offer going to be.
We are expecting the plant to be completed in the fall of 2016 so if we think about the September timeframe and as a reminder that plant will be a combination of Refrigerated meats and also our in-country SPAM production as you mentioned.
So that plant in the capacity that's going to be made available to our business in China.
It's really going to keep us on the path of sustained growth that we've been able to deliver here the last couple of years.
Business is very well developed both in the retail and foodservice channels not only on the meat side but with our SKIPPY business and so as we think about it going forward we're exceptionally well-positioned to continue to grow the business in me instantly and were very excited about the synergies that will get within country production a stamina and being able to leverage them against what we've learned through the SKIPPY business.
And so as we think about it going forward we're exceptionally well-positioned to continue to grow that business in meats and SKIPPY and we're very excited about the synergies that we'll get with the in-country production of SPAM and being able to leverage them against what we've learned through this SKIPPY acquisition integration so lots of the letter great things coming out of China.
[Operator Instructions].
And next we'll move on to Mario Contreras with Deutsche Bank.
So I wanted to clarify on the guidance for fiscal 2016 on the 53rd-week mathematically would expect that to add 2% so given it's not going to add 1%.
I'm just curious is that related to timing or some of that extra week profit going to be reinvested back into the business? Okay Mario this is Jeff.
Our business is the hybrid business between the store grocery channel and in the protein base channels and I guess the way we assess it is yes on the protein side when you have meat coming at you in the system you should anticipate frankly a full extra week you'll have full cost and frankly should deliver full margins.
When it comes to the Grocery side of the business which impacts not only our Grocery product segment but also our international piece is significantly Grocery base.
Our experience in the past has been non-buying programs or those types of items you really don't get a whole extra week.
A lot of them are on monthly programs and so forth and so we're just trying to provide the guidance based on what our best experience has been.
I would say though there is a certain element of reinvestment going on.
We've have [stuffing] up ad spend on an annualized basis and this current plan no exception to that.
We have a number of brands that we're excited about that we think we can continue to build momentum in the marketplaces so there is a little bit of element in general of us making sure we're reinvesting in our brands.
Okay thanks for that.
And then just one additional clarification there corporate expense was a bit higher than its historical trend? Was there anything unusual there this quarter and what type of run rate do you think would be appropriate going forward that line item? I would expect that well in the fourth quarter we really had some higher employee related expenses as we took a look at all of our incentive programs and made adjustments there.
We also had some higher legal expenses for some activity that was going on there.
On a normalized level I think he could look at possibly 5% increase over where we finish this full year.
That ends up being a spot where lots of miscellaneous adjustments so it's little harder to forecast.
And next we'll move on to Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Hey there.
A great year great two years in a row so here is a question about turkey.
I literally just bought our turkey at Stop &amp; Shop $75 $3.12 a pound.
I mean it seems like a shockingly high priced.
Probably Jennie-O.
First question would it be cheaper the Jennie-O.
The second question I look at your pricing back half of the year there was no pricing despite the fact that the industry is sort of volume constraint and I'm trying to think about next year for Jennie-O.
What is the pricing kind of flattish and for next year will it continue to be flattish? And then I'm still not quite sure I understand the cautious guidance for the first half for '16 for Jennie-O if fourth quarter came in loudly above what I had forecasted and I understand the volume constraints but can you give us an order of magnitude on the first half profit guidance for Jennie-O? I mean first of all when whole bird pricing I mean it's a relatively small percentage of the overall results of the business and you're also dealing with something that's very retailer specific and retailer dependent.
I mean it ranges from apparently you hadn't experience where the retailer was certainly seeking to attain some margins out of their whole turkey sales all the way to kind of the more historical treatment.
Frankly there is a lot of retailers usually there is a lot sweeter and so you'll see a price out there and you might think that's breathtakingly low sometimes that's not necessarily what our value was into them.
It's up to the retailer to decide how to price the product.
In the aggregate we came up with as many whole birds as we could for this year given the shortages we were fronted with and allocated them out on a national basis.
In terms of your question about pricing in general and the guidance fourth quarter is traditionally our strongest quarter most favorable feed conversions and so forth in your birds.
You do have the added bump if you will of the Thanksgiving sales rolling through.
We know we're going to be short product again in Q1.
We're certainly going to try to perform as strong as we can.
We're going to be comparing against a very robust performance by Jennie-O Turkey Store in Q1 and Q2 in fiscal 2015.
So we're comfortable that Jennie-O will be a solid contributor to the guidance range that we've provided you on an aggregate basis with most of it coming in the second half of the year.
Okay but pricing like -- there is no pricing in Jennie-O right now and I imagine no pricing next year either and in the capacity constrained environment I would have expected pricing to be higher.
Is it because of those contracts in place with retailers or is there something else? It kind of runs the game Robert.
In some cases you're dealing with product shortages.
In a significant enough shortage position you may end up having a raise of price of what you have left.
There are other aspects or other portfolio that you are on more of a contract basis or on a committed basis so it's just kind of ends up blending out to the position you're seeing.
Clearly there have been a steep increase in the commodity turkey pricing but I think as we've talked about in the past even in years and we're not sure of turkeys we're not really a net seller of breast meat at commodity meat markets and so these very lofty $4 and $5 rates that you're seeing on the commodity breast side that's not something we're able to enjoy in our sales.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the call back over to Jeff for any additional or closing remarks.
Well thank you very much.
I just want to conclude by saying that I'm proud of the excellent quarter and full year performance by our team as we achieved record earnings for a 10th straight quarter.
It's an extraordinary experience of our employees throughout the Company and that's such a key factor to our ability to consistently deliver strong results for the Company.
On behalf of this team I want to wish all of you Happy Thanksgiving and thank you for joining us today.
And that will conclude today's call.
We thank you for your participation.