Thank you for standing by and welcome to AutoNation's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Cheryl Scully Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations for AutoNation.
Good morning and welcome to AutoNation's First Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Leading our call today will be Mike Jackson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mike Maroone our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Short our Chief Financial Officer.
Following their remarks we will open up the call for questions.
Kate Keyser and I will also be available by phone following the call to address any additional questions you may have.
Before we begin let me read our brief statement regarding forward-looking comments and the use of non-GAAP financial measures.
Certain statements and information on this call will constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve risks which may cause the actual results or performance to differ materially from expectations.
Additional discussions of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are contained in our SEC filings.
Certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules may be discussed on this call.
Reconciliations are provided in our press release which is available on our website at www.autonation.com.
And now I'll turn the call over to AutoNation's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mike Jackson.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
Today we reported record adjusted EPS from continuing operations of $0.46 for the first quarter a 35% increase on a per-share basis as compared to $0.34 for the same period in the prior year.
Gross profit for all of our major categories improved compared to the first quarter of 2010 and our expense structure remained very disciplined.
First quarter 2011 revenue totaled $3.3 billion compared to $2.8 billion in the year-ago period an increase of 17% driven primarily by stronger new vehicle revenue.
In the first quarter AutoNation's new vehicle unit sales increased 23% or 20% on a same-store basis which were in line with the industry according to CNW Research Data.
In March we began to see a mix shift with consumers gradually moving to mid-size and small vehicles as gas prices increase fuel efficiency has written on the consumer consideration shopping list and is now in the top 10 according to CNW.
We are of course supportive of the efforts of our Japanese-based partners as they work tirelessly to rebuild and begin production and bring it back online.
To support the recovery efforts AutoNation has made a donation of $100 000 to the American Red Cross.
While the underlying recovery in consumer demand for autos remains on track in the United States due to Japanese supply constraints throughout the remainder of 2011 we are reducing our planning assumption for the 2011 full year U.S.
industry sales to mid-12 million new vehicle units.
Based on current information we see significant reductions in vehicle shipments from the Japanese manufacturers through year end with the resumption of normal shipment level in early 2012.
I'll now turn the call over to Chief Financial Officer Mike Short.
Thank you Mike.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
For the first quarter we reported net income from continuing operations of $70.3 million or $0.46 per share versus $58.8 billion or $0.34 per share during the first quarter of 2010 a 35% improvement on a per-share basis.
During our fourth quarter conference call we mentioned that we expected to earn approximately $9 million in performance-based manufacturer incentives over the following 2 quarters primarily related to Premium Luxury vehicles previously sold.
Our first quarter gross profit and operating income were favorably impacted by $4.6 million due to the recognition of these incentives.
We expect to recognize approximately $4.5 million in operating income related to these incentives in the second quarter of 2011.
First quarter revenue increased $474.5 million or 17% compared to the prior year.
Gross profit improved by $57.8 million or 11% while SG&amp;A was up $34.3 million or 9% for the quarter.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross profit was 72.0% for the quarter.
Excluding the benefit from the manufacturer incentives previously mentioned it would have been 72.6%.
This represents an improvement of over 80 basis points compared to the first quarter of 2010 it also represents over 100 basis points sequential improvement excluding the benefit from the incentives in both quarters.
Although we’ve achieved strong SG&amp;A performance to date there's still further long-term benefit to be gained as we focus on technology and process improvements in our stores and in our Shared Service Center as well as centralized procurement initiatives.
Our scale and centralization efforts to date uniquely position us to take these next steps in SG&amp;A improvements.
Net new vehicle floorplan was a benefit of $4.7 million for the quarter an improvement of $1.4 million compared to the $3.3 million benefit in the first quarter of 2010 due to an increase in floorplan assistance as a result of higher new vehicle sales partially offset by an increase in floorplan interest expense due to higher average floorplan balances during the quarter.
Non-vehicle interest expense was $16.3 million for the quarter up from $9 million we reported in the first quarter of 2010 due to higher debt levels and increased percentage of fixed rate debt and increased spreads related to our refinancing in April of 2010.
During the quarter we paid down $15 million under our revolving credit facility resulting in $165 million of outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility at the end of the first quarter.
Our first quarter non-vehicle debt balance was $1.34 billion an increase of $226 million compared to the first quarter of 2010 but a decrease of $11.8 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
LIBOR rates were relatively flat compared with the first quarter of 2010.
The provision for income tax in the quarter was $44.2 million or 38.6%.
During the first quarter we repurchased approximately 1.8 million shares for $59 million at an average price of $32.84 per share.
We ended the first quarter with 148.6 million shares outstanding and a $174 million Board authorization remaining for future share repurchases.
During the quarter as previously disclosed we acquired a Toyota store in the Fort Myers market for approximately $64 million.
Capital expenditures for the quarter were $25 million and our CapEx estimate for the year remains at $140 million net of proceeds from related asset sales.
Floorplan debt was approximately $1.65 billion at quarter end down approximately $214 million from December 31 2010 in-line with inventory levels.
We remain within the limits of our financial covenants with the leverage ratio of 2.27x at the end of the quarter.
Our indebtedness number in this calculation is not on a net debt basis if we had applied the cash of our balance sheet plus cash available from used inventory flooring to a reduce debt we would have lowered the ratio to 2.0x compared to the limit of 3.25x.
Our quarter end cash balance was $84 million which combined with our additional borrowing capacity resulted in strong total liquidity of approximately $570 million at the end of March.
The strength of our balance sheet and the discipline of our cost structure will enable us to manage through the challenges presented by the Japanese product constraints.
We are well-positioned to continue to invest in our business and capitalize on the long-term recovery in the automotive market.
Now let me turn you over to our President and Chief Operating Officer Mike Maroone.
Thanks Mike and good morning.
AutoNation delivered a strong performance in the quarter and I'll start by thanking our associates for their commitment and dedication in making it happen.
Customers were in the market and we were ready as evidenced by strong year-over-year increases in new and used unit volume making this the fifth consecutive quarter of double-digit growth for total retail volume.
Revenue and total gross profit increased in all areas of our business and we recorded an impressive operating margin of 4.2%.
Turning to detailed results.
I'll begin with our segment performance.
At $129 million total segment income for the first quarter grew 22% or $23 million compared to the period a year ago with increases in all 3 segments as follows: Domestic segment income increased 34% to $43 million; Premium Luxury increased 18% to $55 million; and Import segment income increased 15% to $58 million.
As I continue my comments we'll be in a same-store basis unless noted otherwise.
During the first quarter AutoNation retailed 54 200 new vehicles an increase of 8 900 units or 20% compared to the period a year ago.
First quarter new vehicle same-store revenue increased $286 million or 20% to $1.75 billion on increased volume driven by stronger customer demand.
A $2 266 gross profit per new vehicle retail was relatively flat compared to the period a year ago and gross profit as a percent of revenue of 7% was off by 10 basis points.
This was driven by a decline in margins of the Import segment due to the competitive environment which was partially offset by the recognition of special performance-based manufacturer incentives which we discussed on our previous call.
Excluding the $4.6 million of special performance-based manufacturer incentives in the quarter gross profit per new vehicle retailed was $2 181 a reduction of $91 or 4% and gross profit as a percent of revenue was 6.8%.
Sequentially from Q4 to Q1 again excluding the special performance-based manufacturer incentives we saw an improvement in the gross profit per new vehicle retailed of $18.
At March 31 new vehicle days supply was 50 days or 40 800 units compared to 51 days a year ago and 63 days at December 31.
Next used vehicles where we're very pleased with our results.
AutoNation retailed 41 300 used vehicles in the quarter which drove a unit volume increase of 10% compared to the period a year ago and a used-to-new ratio of 0.76:1.
As tight inventories and increasing demand move prices higher same-store retail used revenue was up 11% to $714 million and revenue per used vehicle retailed of $17 300 increased $224 compared to the period a year ago.
Same-store used vehicle gross profit of $73 million reflected an increase of 15% while gross profit per used vehicle retailed at $1 757 grew $78 or 5% compared to the period a year ago.
Used vehicle gross profit as a percent of revenue at 10.1% grew 30 basis points.
I'd like to provide a quick update on our Value VehiclesOutlets an initiative in its early stages to retail value-priced vehicles that we would have traditionally wholesaled.
Today we have 22 locations in operation with 6 more planned by the end of Q3.
We are very pleased with the continued growth of this program which is an important part of our strategy to address industry supply constraints and meet market demand.
Another important component is winning more trades which we addressed by viewing every customer visit as a trade opportunity and ensuring our appraisal process that actively involves the customer is consistently executed.
I'll also note that in the quarter we moved nearly 12 000 used vehicles from originating stores to a more optimal location relative to turn and PVR [per vehicle retailed].
In continued experience good success at retail with this program.
At March 31 used vehicle days supply was 42 days in line with our adjusted targeted days supply.
For parts service and collision compared to the period -- compared to the quarter a year ago same-store revenue of $557 million increased $19 million or 4%.
We are very pleased to deliver another solid performance on the customer pay side where customer pay revenue grew year-over-year for the third consecutive quarter and was up 4% year-over-year for the second consecutive quarter.
We attribute the upward trend in customer pay revenue to improving market conditions and better execution in the service drive.
Parts service and collision gross profit of $239 million was up $2 million or 1% compared to a year ago.
In the quarter increases of 2% in customer pay service gross and a 7% increase in internal gross more than offset a 4% decline in warranty gross.
Gross profit as a percent of revenue was off 120 basis points to 42.9% compared to a year-ago.
We attribute this to a shift in mix toward internal as well as a shift within customer pay resulting from our initiatives to grow tires and maintenance to drive customer retention.
I'll also note that the warranty comp in a period a year ago included the Toyota recalls.
Turning to F&amp;I.
Gross profit per vehicle retailed of $1 137 remain strong but up slightly versus a year ago with improvements in the rate of product commissions offset by product chargebacks and lower retrospective commissions on vehicle service contract programs.
The credit environment was again favorable compared to a year ago and stable sequentially.
In the quarter we noted key non-prime and sub-prime lenders were buying deeper year-over-year.
At March 31 our store portfolio stood at 209 stores and 243 franchises representing 31 brands and 15 states.
Changes from our Q4 2010 call are the completion of the acquisition of Ft.
Myers Toyota and the separation of franchises at 2 locations.
One where we separated MINI from BMW in Northern California and the other where we separated Mitsubishi from Chevrolet in Houston.
We remain confident regarding the long-term-outlook for our business and are continuing to invest in our future growth.
Year-to-date we've completed 8 of 16 major facility projects slated for 2011.
We've opened 2 brand new state-of-the-art ad points Mercedes-Benz of Stanford and Central Florida and Mercedes-Benz of Coconut Creek in South Florida.
Relocations to new ground up facilities include Leesburg Honda now called Honda of Dulles Team Hyundai of Mall of Georgia and Mercedes-Benz of Sarasota.
We opened Fiat South Bay in Southern California after renovating an existing vacant facility and completed the extensive renovation of Mercedes-Benz of Orlando and Mercedes-Benz of Westmont in the Chicago market.
Looking ahead we continue to seek acquisition opportunities that meet our market brand and return-on-investment criteria.
Before I close I'd like to touch on how we're addressing the reduction in Japanese production.
We've implemented a substantial number of tactical moves to address potential impacts with the goal of maximizing our inventories and optimizing gross.
Our revised operating plan includes: benchmarking and tactical adjustments of market pricing in new and used vehicles; increased acquisition of used inventory outside of auctions; a significant marketing shift to promote our broad selection of domestic and used inventory as well as our fixed operation business; and an aggressive management of variable expenses.
With the full extent of the industry impact not yet known we believe that our disciplined approach coupled with an operating model that's diversified by brand geography and revenue stream positions us well to successfully navigate the anticipated disruption.
In closing in the quarter AutoNation continue to drive top-line growth and margin growth as well as delivered a record EPS in the first quarter and an industry selling rate of 13 million units.
We did it with low associate turnover high customer satisfaction a disciplined cost structure and a 1-team-1-goal spirit.
I'd like to thank our associates and share that we're very optimistic about the future of our company.
And with that I'll turn the call back to Mike Jackson.
Thanks Mike.
Our record of first quarter results demonstrate that the consumer is back and reflect our ability to leverage our operating model and disciplined cost structure.
Our diversified business model is resilient and adaptable.
We are confident we can manage through the challenges presented by the Japanese product constraints and continue to be optimistic about the long-term recovery of the U.S.
auto market.
With that I'd like to open it up the call for questions.
First question please.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Patrick Archambault Goldman Sachs.
On the Japan impact 2 questions.
#1 can you give us a sense of how you see the timing impacting sales? In earlier call with the group 1 suggested that inventories might be good to sort of sustain a couple of months of sales without issues but by the third quarter is when we might see the impact.
And then second to that maybe it's just generally how you think some of the supply issues that are happening are likely to impact pricing and margins for you guys going forward.
Yes this is Mike Jackson.
As of March 1 the Japanese had very good inventories in the U.S.
around 600 000 units on the ground and we had an excellent pipeline coming from Japan and parts going to the U.S.
factories to continue production.
So that really says you have a good supply.
Through April and May you will begin to see the first sign of disruption.
I think then the Japanese dealers are very skilled at working with lower inventories they've done it for years so there can be significant inventory reduction before there is a meaningful impact on sales.
But I think May June you begin to feel the disruption on the production.
And certainly July there will be meaningful shortages of Japanese products.
I think on the front-end grosses and margins we fully expected in the journey back to 16 million units and with increasing demand that we would be able to improve those margins in that journey.
And I certainly believe in this period here where there's going to be a significant differential between demand and supply you will see improvement in front end margins.
Maroone maybe you can add to that.
Mike I think you captured it.
We have good supply today but we will feel pressure and what we do is we benchmark to market pricing.
There's a lot of data out there and we will move our prices up as the market moves up.
And we do think there's opportunity.
Okay.
Great.
And just maybe 1 follow-up to that.
How -- I mean this is kind of a very broad question but how flexible do you think some of the buyers or most of the buyers are I should say for mid-volume for product? Are these folks that you think you can sort of get into some of your other dealerships and competing brands during those periods of time when the product is tight or is the loyalty for that group kind of strong enough that that might be difficult? I think what we're saying is that the demand is there for a much higher selling rate but the supply will not be there.
And I think in Mike and I's 40 years experience in this business I don't think I've ever said that in the auto industry.
So this is an unprecedented supply restraint and to continue the conversation in all our discussion with the domestic and the German there is a sense that they're working hard to maintain their original production plans but they have given us no indication yet that they're able to increase production beyond the original plans that they are dealing with part supply issues from the Japanese also.
So it's really a supply constrained situation.
So I'm not sure the availability is going at the domestic it is going to be able to bridge the gap with the shortage of the Japanese in the total year.
So it's clearly going to be a margin situation.
I will say though in principle the domestics have a much more attractive offering than they did 5 to 10 years ago both from design quality and certainly from fuel efficiency.
So they're well positioned to be attractive to Japanese traffic and I think you'll have a compelling offer for them.
But how much of that can really occur? I can't say.
And that's the reason why we reduced our forecast for our industry sales to the mid-12 million.
From today's perspective I just don't see where the production is to support something higher than that.
Okay terrific.
Thanks.
That's very helpful.
The next question is coming from Rick Nelson of Stephens.
I think earlier you had talked about your expectation that we would see a 30% to 50% reduction in production from the Japanese OEMs.
Are you still comfortable with that estimate? And has your view have changed at all on the duration of the supply constraints? Rick my -- last time we spoke it was on a sales call.
It was 30% to 50% in 3 to 4 months.
So 30% is out the window.
Its 50% somewhere around that plus or minus somewhat and it's not 3 to 4 months its 6 to 7 months.
And so if they're back on stride in the October November with "normal production" of parts and vehicles then you have to add 6 weeks to that to get it into the market.
So we live in the real world.
So on a shipment basis to begin to rebuild inventory you're into next year.
So that's the reason that we've said that it's going to be a supply-constrained year.
Certainly that means we have to do work on the margin side which we will.
But from today's perspective I don't see how the production is going to be there to support something above the mid-12 million level.
And then you comment -- thank you for that by the way.
Can you comment on the used car business? How you see that impact about the supply constraints more demand for used cars but higher sourcing cost because you're going to auction to...
Rick it's Mike Maroone.
I think there's a tremendous opportunity in used and we're positioned to take advantage of it.
We moved our inventories up.
Our goal is to gain supply at the doors as we call it in our dealerships to try and win more appraisals.
We're aggressively going after every single appraisal.
I don't think our business model is just standing at the auction and buying a large numbers of vehicle.
So I think there is opportunity.
Certainly the prices are strong.
We've changed a number of our policies aging and wholesale and are really trying to get our inventories up which we've done successfully.
I think it’s a big opportunity both on the volume side and the margin side.
And 1 more comment this is Mike Jackson.
I will note that both GM and Ford have confirmed their store outlook of 13 million to 13.4 million and if you do the math the only way you can get there that means GM and Ford are significantly increasing production above plan or else the math doesn't work.
So they may know something I don't know that could well be.
But from what they're telling us as far as what they're going to produce there's been no increase in their production plan.
But I will note they are confirming 13 million to 13.4 million and they could know something I don't.
And then can I ask you about Toyota allocations? We -- you heard the things have really come to it grinding halt then at week-to-week basis any color there would be helpful.
Rick again its Mike Maroone.
I would share your view is that -- I don't know if they've come to a grinding halt but there's very little allocation of product.
As Mike Jackson said we had very solid inventory probably above average inventories on March 1 and a very strong pipeline.
Of course the pipeline hasn't been disrupted its future production that's disrupted.
So we're in decent shape today but I do not see the pipeline refilling too much and we stand by our 50% reduction of normal production.
All right.
Good.
Thanks and good luck.
Next question is coming from John Murphy Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your comments on the Japan situation have been very helpful but Mike I know GM and Ford are saying 1 thing the Japanese are saying another thing but I mean if you can comment on what you do know and what you're hearing in your dealerships I mean are you hearing any increased cross-shopping particularly when we've got GM coming out with the Sonic and they had the Cruze last year and the Ford has the Fiesta and the Focus.
I mean they really do have some good competitive products here at a time when the Japanese are going to be out of product.
I'm just wondering if you're hearing that buzz or your sales guys are maybe saying we have another product that might fit your needs.
I'm just trying to understand what's going on in the short term and what you're hearing.
And then maybe also if that might translate into some potential longer-term market share shifts as they get people into these good vehicles.
John I fully agree that the offering from the domestics is far more compelling than it was 5 to 10 years ago and it's spot-on on issues as far as design quality content and most importantly fuel efficiency.
So it really is a different game.
And there's no question that the domestics will gain share this year.
We're saying the pie is going to be smaller because of production constraints the big production constraints are with the Japanese.
The domestics have confirmed that they'll hit their original production plans with the content and configuration issues but they'll hit the original production plan so they will take share.
So I think the door is open.
What we haven't heard from the domestics though is any statement or any indication that they're able to increase production beyond original plan.
So that's where the situation sits at the moment.
If they are ultimately able to do that as things develop then I think the door is open for an even larger share step by the domestics.
Mr.
Maroone do you want to add anything? I'd just say that our Domestic allocations have been robust.
We just had a big allocation yesterday from GM which we're always looking for more in this kind of situation.
I think in terms of cross-shopping John I think it’s just a little bit early because there is sufficient import inventory on the ground.
I think that cross-shopping will certainly heat up in May June and July.
Yes so that's an important point.
Again in the real retail world so far nothing's changed.
We have excellent supply of Japanese products through month-end and it’s really end of May before you even see the first indication of the disruption at the store level.
Got you.
Thank you.
And then second question is on SG&amp;A.
I mean this is -- the 72% SG&amp;A as a percent of growth is the lowest level it's been in 4 years now in the first quarter.
So there's been great performance there.
I mean are we still looking at a period where I mean the second or third quarter we can skip over those but I think it's in the fourth quarter and beyond and the next year when hopefully the world normalizes eventually that you could be significantly below the levels that you have been before meaning that you could break through that 70% level and maybe stay through that in a normalized market -- below that I should say.
Yes John.
We've been below 70% before.
In 2005 we operated in the 69% range.
And I think as volume comes back although it's very hard to get back there.
And then just lastly on share buybacks are there any other limits other than the debt to EBITDA covenant that you mentioned on the call or is that just really the only limiting factor we should look for technically on share buybacks? The only -- just from a technical perspective it's merely technical is we have $175 million or $174 million left there in Board authorization but obviously that's up to the Board to amend and increase as they see fit.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
The next question is coming from Brian Sponheimer Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Thanks for taking my calls.
Just a couple -- just 1 question back on demand and the Japanese issue.
Any sense that you could see customer pull forward into this quarter where customers are becoming concerned about the availability as they start to see some constraint on supply looking in the summer months? Brian I really don't think so because the situation is already going to begin in mid-May and there's not a lot of time for the customer to -- if the customer is going to rush the quarter you're already going to have supply issues in the quarter.
So I don't see that happening in a meaningful way.
I mean you may get some of that anecdotally but I don't think there's going to be enough supply that you're able to jam the second quarter if you will and a land rush to get the Japanese product before they run out I don't see that.
Hey this is indeed I have to be clear an unprecedented situation where okay we've had an occasional strike with the domestic manufacturer here and there but we've never had a whole manufacturing segment shut down like this to this extent.
So we'll have to see how it develops but I don't expect that.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And if you're taking about 300 000 units from your 2011 sales estimates would it be correct to think that those 300 000 units simply push into 2011 or some are lost to the used market? No I think they are pushed into the following year 2012.
Inc.</strong> 2012 rather.
Yes.
And the math is sort of if we do the production disruption we come to a loss of 600 000 or 700 000 units for the Japanese.
You can take Japanese inventory down 300 000-some units.
The Japanese -- that's not pie in the sky.
Japanese dealers have clearly shown the ability to work with lean inventories before and so we're taking the difference of that 300 000 out of our planning with a clear statement that demand is higher but I don't know where the production is going to come to cover it.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And just 1 more if I may.
Just on credit availability and credit score.
Do you have any metrics for FICO scores during the quarter? Any change of credit mix or loan availability versus say 3 months ago and 12 months ago? Brian no real change in FICO scores.
I think what we did call out is certainly a deeper buying at subprime but the quality of the buyer hasn't deteriorated.
It seems to be pretty stable.
Inc.</strong> Thank you for taking my calls.
Thank you.
[Technical Difficulty] Our next caller is Matt Nemer of Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Thanks for taking my question.
So first I just wanted to take a step back and ask probably a fairly elementary question.
But where a vehicle is short on supplier out of stock either in the past or currently on something say like the Prius.
Do customers tend to wait for it to come back in do they change models or will they switch to nearly new and do you have any stats on that? Matt it's Mike Maroone.
I don't think we've got stats.
But I think the precedent we really seen in the business is people buying from an incoming pipeline.
We haven't had a situation where the pipeline has been dry so I think it's difficult to say how customers are going to react.
LLC</strong> Got it.
Okay and then just a few questions on the used car business.
We've heard some reports that there's been significant intra-quarter appreciation in used vehicle prices particularly in the month of March and into April.
Just wondering if you could pick up some carry on that based on your current inventory.
I realized you have to pay more in the market as well but could we see a period short-term of potentially much higher used vehicle margins? It's Mike Maroone again.
I think there is an opportunity for greater margin.
You are correct we did see auction price movement in late February and March as fuel prices went up.
We saw some double-digit appreciation in fuel-efficient vehicles and I think there is opportunity.
We do try and generally keep our inventories lean.
We're normally in the 35- to 37-day supply we're now targeting 42 to 44 to try and take advantage of the opportunity in used.
So I think there is some margin opportunity both from your existing inventory and then again with us we have a lot of opportunity to win used vehicles at our dealerships that's our intention.
And if we can do that I think it really speaks well for a way to mitigate some of the disruption from the new Japanese business.
LLC</strong> And just to follow up on that how do you increase appraisal buy rates at the stores? Is there a change in the appraisal process or maybe you can give us a sense for what you're doing there.
Well we've got a very defined process that we've used that actively involves the customers.
We review the vehicle.
That's not new but certainly we're looking for improved execution there.
What we do is we measure the number of customer visits then we look at the appraisals then look at what the appraisals we've won.
We've got the technology to do that.
We look at it every single day and we benchmark our associates and just trying to raise the awareness of the amount of opportunities from customer visits.
So we want to get more vehicles appraised.
We want to let the customers know very clearly that whether or not they buy a vehicle from us although we'd like them to buy a vehicle from us we would like to buy their trades.
So there's a series of both merchandising and process execution that we think we can improve our performance there.
And we've been doing that for the last 3 to 4 weeks and I think we've been successful.
We've got a really good used car team out in the field.
LLC</strong> And then just 1 last 1 on used cars.
You mentioned that you moved 12 000 vehicles in the quarter which is about ¼ of your volume.
Is any of that by customer request or is that all on inbound appraisals? And then can you measure the impact to grosses on those vehicles net of transportation expense? Well first of all some of it is customer request because we do have a virtual inventory.
So there are times that we'll move it for customer convenience.
But what we really do is use some software programs that say "Here's where you can get highest and best value for that vehicle." We then move it.
We used to wait several weeks before we moved it to give the trading store an opportunity to retail it.
Now with this disruption we're moving vehicles day 1 to their highest and best use.
We believe when we do that we can turn the vehicle in 4 to 5 days quicker and we can turn it for higher gross margin.
So it's done very strategically we use software to do it and I think it's been real successful.
It allows us to pay more for the car and it also allows us to retail the vehicle quicker and hopefully with more margin.
LLC</strong> Great sounds interesting.
Thanks very much.
The last question is coming from Colin Langan of UBS.
Great.
Thanks for taking my question.
Do you -- any indication how this month is trending? I mean is there as you said inventory isn't an issue until next month so is it staying consistent with what we saw last month? And also regarding margins potentially improving in the near term has there been a benefit at the end of March or in April so far is that a trend that's already started to occur? Well we report our sales every month.
We're the 1 of the few companies automotive retail companies that do that so I think it's next Wednesday.
Next Wednesday you'll have our results.
It's always -- yes so much happens in the last week of a month that it can really change what would be correct to say today.
So I really prefer to keep the discipline of giving you that report when the month is done and we know in full what we're talking about.
And on the margin side if there has been an improvement since...
Same statement would apply.
And then any comment on the improvement in used margins? It sounds like the improvement in auction values had helped.
Does that mean -- is this level sustainable in the Q1 or is it more of a temporary boost because some of the prices of the inventory you are holding rose? It's Mike Maroone.
I believe that it is sustainable.
We worked hard to improve our processes.
Certainly in a strong used car market with high demand and limited supply I think there is opportunity.
So as far out as we can see we don't see the used vehicle market doing anything but getting better and I think there is margin opportunity there yes.
Okay.
And just 1 last 1 I'm not sure if it will be a factor as the near-term disruption but what would the impact be if we do see a major shift from trucks to cars? I mean are you equally profitable on both the products at the dealer level or is there a margin benefit from -- higher in trucks? Yes.
First to talk about gas prices.
So far we've seen a migration towards fuel efficiency that can be exemplified by the fact that the split between cars and trucks was 50-50 for us in January it moved to 52% February 55% in March.
That is not comparable to what happened in the '08 where it spiked over 60% in a very short period of time.
We have not seen a significant impact on trading values or residual values of trucks or large cars as we did in '08 where those vehicles took a 15% to 20% hit.
And I think the number where people really overact or panic or freak out is indeed higher than $4 a gallon it's probably $4.50 to $5 a gallon something like that.
So it's a very manageable situation at the moment.
Industry is much better prepared.
Every manufacturer is there with fuel-efficient vehicles.
Inventories are balanced.
So it's a very orderly transition towards fuel efficiency and we probably have another $0.50 to a gallon to go to get something -- $1 a gallon to get something that would be comparable to '08.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you everyone for your time today.
Were very appreciative.
Thank you.
This will conclude today's conference.
All parties may disconnect at this time.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to AutoNation's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Cheryl Scully Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations for AutoNation.
Ma'am you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to AutoNation's Second Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Leading our call today will be Mike Jackson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mike Maroone our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Short our Chief Financial Officer.
Following their remarks we will open up the call for questions.
Kate Keyser and I will also be available by phone following the call to address any additional questions that you may have.
Before we begin let me read our brief statement regarding forward-looking comments and the use of non-GAAP financial measures.
Certain statements and information on this call will constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve risks which may cause the actual results or performance to differ materially from expectations.
Additional discussions of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are contained in our SEC filings.
Certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules may be discussed on this call.
Reconciliations are provided in our press release which is available on our website at www.autonation.com.
And now I'll turn the call over to AutoNation's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mike Jackson.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
Today we reported record earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.49 for the second quarter a 29% increase on a per-share basis as compared to $0.38 adjusted EPS for the same period in the prior year.
Gross profit for all of our major categories -- new used finance and insurance parts and service -- improved compared to the second quarter of 2010 and our expense structure remained very disciplined.
Second quarter 2011 revenue totaled $3.3 billion compared to $3.1 billion in the year-ago period an increase of 8% driven primarily by higher new and used vehicle averages retail selling prices based on CNW Research Data.
In the second quarter total U.S.
industry new retail vehicle unit sales decreased 2%.
In the second quarter AutoNation's total new vehicle unit sales were flat and on a same-store basis declined 4%.
This quarter once again demonstrated that our diversified business model is the right strategy as well as our ability to rapidly adapt to change and execute effectively in a changing marketplace.
In light of the Japanese supply constraints we [indiscernible] our operating plan to optimize our inventories and maximize gross profit.
We drove impressive results in the second quarter increasing total gross profit by 10% over the prior year due to an increase in gross profit on both new and used vehicles.
On a per-vehicle basis gross profit increased 26% for new and 11% for used.
We applaud the efforts of our Japanese-based partner as they work nonstop to rebuild and bring production back online.
We estimate that the vehicle shipments from the Japanese manufacturers were approximately 40% below planned levels in the second quarter and that by September they will be approximately 10% to 15% below planned levels.
While the improved supply environment may mitigate the peak that import PVRs experienced in the second quarter we expect that import margins will remain strong in the third quarter.
We expect the new vehicle sales environment will begin to normalize in the fourth quarter of 2011.
I now turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Mike Short.
Thank you Mike and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
For the second quarter we reported net income from continuing operations of $73.3 million or $0.49 per share versus adjusted net income of $62.1 million or $0.38 per share during the second quarter of 2010 a 29% improvement on a per-share basis.
Our second quarter prior-year results exclude $12.1 million after-tax or $0.07 per share of expenses related to debt financing costs.
There were no adjustments to net income in the second quarter of 2011.
Adjustments to net income are included in the reconciliations provided in our press release.
During our last quarterly conference call we indicated that we expected to recognize approximately $4.5 million of operating income in the second quarter related to performance-based manufacturer incentives on premium luxury vehicles previously sold.
Due to delays in construction projects the favorable impact of second quarter gross profit and operating income was only $1.4 million.
We expect to recognize the remaining incentives under this program in the second half of 2011.
Second quarter revenue increased $232 million or 8% compared to the prior year and gross profit improved by $54.1 million or 10% for the quarter.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross profit was 71.6% for the quarter.
This represents an 80 basis point sequential improvement excluding the benefit from the premium luxury performance incentives in both quarters.
We achieved this improvement despite approximately $5 million or $0.02 per share in cost related to hail storms which impacted some of our stores in several states during the quarter.
This SG&amp;A results were achieved in the quarter with a SAAR of approximately 12 million units highlighting the current benefits of our Shared Service Center and low-cost platform.
The last time our SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross profit was below 72% was in the third quarter of 2007 which is prior to the recession.
Our cost structure can further benefit as we continue to implement best practices and technology tools and as volume recovers.
Net new vehicle floorplan was a benefit of $3.4 million for the quarter a decrease of $1.3 million compared to the $4.7 million benefit in the second quarter of 2010 primarily due to higher floorplan interest expense driven by higher inventory levels compared to the prior-year period.
Non-vehicle interest expense was $15.9 million for the quarter an increase from the $14.7 million we reported in the second quarter of 2010 due to higher debt levels and increased spreads related to our refinancing in April of 2010.
During the quarter we borrowed $110 million under our revolving credit facility resulting in $275 million of outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility at the end of June.
Our second quarter non-vehicle debt balance was $1.45 billion an increase of $77.7 million compared to the second quarter of 2010.
LIBOR rates were 11 basis points lower on average compared with the second quarter of 2010.
Provision for income tax in the quarter was $45.1 million or 38.1%.
During the second quarter we repurchased approximately 3.4 million shares for $110.9 million at an average balance of $33.04 per share.
We ended the second quarter with 145.7 million shares outstanding.
In May our Board of Directors authorized an additional $250 million under our existing share repurchase program and at the end of June $314 million dollars of Board authorization was remaining for future share repurchases.
Capital expenditures for the quarter were $39 million.
Our CapEx estimate for the year remains at approximately $140 million net of proceeds from related asset sales.
Floorplan debt was approximately $1.67 billion at quarter-end an increase of approximately $21 million from March 31 2011 in line with inventory levels.
Last week Standard &amp; Poor's upgraded AutoNation's corporate credit rating to investment grade as a reflection of our strong operating execution diversified business model and disciplined financial management.
Our robust balance sheet continues to be industry-leading and we will remain well within the limits of our financial covenants.
Our leverage ratio at June 30 was 2.39x or 2.1x on a net debt basis including used floorplan availability compared to the limit of 3.25x.
Our quarter-end cash balance was $82 million which combined with our additional borrowing capacity resulted in a healthy total liquidity of approximately $482 million at the end of June.
We again demonstrated the agility of the auto retail model and our leadership position as we navigated successfully through the Japanese supply constraints.
We continue to operate the business with a solid balance sheet and strong cash flow generation and remain focused on actively allocating capital to maximize shareholder returns.
Now let me turn you over to our President and Chief Operating Officer Mike Maroone.
Thanks Mike and good morning.
We're very pleased with our performance in the quarter.
The resiliency of our strategic operating model coupled with strong operating execution allowed us to remain nimble and manage through the Japanese product disruption to deliver revenue and gross profit increases in all areas of our business along with an impressive operating margin of 4.3%.
Turning to detailed results.
I'll begin with our segment performance.
At $134 million total segment income for the second quarter grew 15% or $17 million compared to the period a year ago with increase across all 3 segments.
I'll note that at $66 million the Import segment income increased $13 million or 25% driven in large part by increased new vehicle gross profit.
It was a result of intense efforts to optimize our Import segment inventory in response to the supply constraints.
As I continue my comments we'll be on a same-store basis unless noted otherwise.
AutoNation retailed 50 000 new vehicles in the second quarter [indiscernible] 4% for same stores compared to the period a year ago.
Unit increases in Domestic and Premium Luxury were offset by import volume declines from limited supply.
For total stores AutoNation was flat year-over-year compared to the industry being down 2% at retail according to CNW.
Looking at various geographies relative to retail volume Texas continues to be our strongest market while markets in California and Florida are experiencing a more uneven recovery.
New vehicle same-store revenue increased $33 million or 2% to $1.7 billion driven by increased revenue per vehicle retailed particularly on imports due to supply and demand as well as increase for both Domestic and Premium Luxury units sold.
Gross profit for new vehicle retailed increased $543 or 26% to $2 642 with increases in all 3 segments as follows: Imports increased $676 Premium Luxury was up $538 Domestic up $107.
A significant contributing factor to gross profit PVR lift was a solid tactical plan implemented across the enterprise for domestic Import and Premium Luxury segments with particular focus on optimizing the Japanese brand inventory while maximizing gross.
This included developing a proprietary web-based pricing tool to capture various market pricing metrics and establish targets and poor [ph] prices for each model in every brand.
We're adjusting both new and used prices to optimize traffic in sales.
New vehicle gross profit as a percent of revenue increased 120 basis points to 7.8%.
At June 30 new vehicle days supply was 59 day or 38 900 units compared to 55 days and 37 500 units a year ago.
Turning to used vehicles.
AutoNation retailed 42 000 used vehicles in the quarter a 3% increase compared to the period a year ago.
Our used-to-new ratio was 0.83:1.
In the quarter same-store retail used vehicle revenue of $766 million rose 9% year-over-year and revenue per used vehicle retailed at $18 400 dollars increased 6% or $1 004 compared to the period a year ago.
Steady demand and continued tight inventory availability for the industry kept used prices high in the quarter.
Same-store used vehicle gross profit is $75 million reflected an increase of 14% while gross profit for vehicle retailed at $1 800 grew $174 or 11% compared to the period a year ago both driven in large part by demand in the Import segment where some new vehicle intenders moved to used vehicles.
Used vehicle gross profit as a percent of revenue at 9.8% grew 40 basis points.
At June 30 used vehicle days supply was 47 days compared to 44 a year ago and 42 days at March 31.
During the quarter we ramped up our used vehicle inventory when the timeline on the Japanese disruption to new vehicle inventory was anticipated to be longer.
We are now prudently working through that inventory to reduce our used day supply to better prepare for seasonal pricing adjustments.
Two final items I'll mentioned relative to used vehicles.
First during the quarter we've moved 10 500 used vehicles from their originating stores to stores where they should have quicker turn time and higher PVRs.
Second we now have 26 Value Vehicle Outlets in operation with 3 more scheduled to open in the third quarter.
We created the Value Vehicles Outlets to retail value-priced vehicle that we would have traditionally wholesaled.
We continue to be pleased with the ongoing growth of this program which is an important part of our strategy to address industry supply constraints and meet market demand.
For parts service and collision compared to the quarter a year ago same-store revenue of $559 million increased $12 million or 2%.
I'm pleased to note that our customer pay revenue of $187 million was up $5 million or 3% making the fourth consecutive quarter of year-over-year increases.
Parts service and collision gross profit of $239 million was flat compared to a year ago with gross profit increases for customer pay service internal and collision offset by decreases in warranty in wholesale and retail counterparts.
Gross profit as a percent of revenue was up 90 basis points to 42.8% compared to a year-ago.
We saw a slight mix slight shift in mix toward internal as well as a shift within customer pay resulting from our initiatives to grow tires and maintenance to drive customer retention.
I'll also note that the warranty comparison in the period a year ago had the benefit of the Toyota recalls.
As I mentioned before we are focused on growing customer pay revenue and gross and are pleased with the progress on both fronts as we continue to work to improve retail execution in our service drives across the enterprise.
Turning to F&amp;I.
Total gross profit in the quarter increased $9 million or 9% to $114 million on flat total retail volume year-over-year.
Same-store gross profit per vehicle retailed was $1 243 per vehicle an increase of $109 or 10% compared to a year ago.
We attribute this primarily to improvement in both rate and product commissions and a crisp execution of our best practice processes at our stores.
In the quarter we recognized favorable retrospective commissions related to products sold in higher volume years.
We also continue to benefit from our strong preferred lender network as well solid product penetration.
The credit environment in the quarter was solid and stable both sequentially and year-over-year and we noted expanded buying parameters for key prime nonprime and sub-prime lenders year-over-year.
At June 30 our store portfolio numbered 213 stores 254 franchises representing 32 brands in 15 states.
Reconciling our store count to our Q1 2011 call we opened ad points during the second quarter as follows: Mercedes-Benz of Coconut Creek in South Florida Mercedes-Benz of Sanford and Central Florida Power Fiat of South Bay and Southern California and Team Fiat Mall of Georgia outside of Atlanta.
We came into the year with an aggressive plan to build new facilities and undertake several major facility renovations.
About 2/3 of the projects are completed which includes the opening of Team Fiat Mall at Georgia and the extensive renovation of Infinity of South Bay in the second quarter.
Seven additional projects are slated for completion by year end.
Looking ahead we are actively seeking acquisition opportunities that meet our market brand and return on investment criteria.
In closing AutoNation adapted well to challenges in the environment by delivering top line and margin growth as well as record EPS for the third consecutive quarter.
This growth occurred while also delivering excellent CSI low associate turnover and strong sales efficiency.
We continue to take a long view by investing in facilities technology and associate development.
And on behalf of our executive team I'd like to thank all of our associates for delivering an outstanding quarter.
And with that I'll turn it over to Mike Jackson.
Thanks Mike.
This quarter we successfully navigated through the challenges presented by the Japanese product constraints and our record second quarter results once again demonstrated that our diversified business model is resilient and adaptable.
We continue to be optimistic about the long-term recovery for the U.S.
auto market and the broader U.S.
economy.
We continue to use the planning assumption for 2011 and full year U.S.
industry sales of mid-12 million new vehicle units.
We'd now like to open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is coming from Rick Nelson of Stephens.
What are you hearing Mike kind of from the OEMs about incentives as inventories begin to normalize? I think we're still in a disruptive period for July and August that there will be restraint on marketing activities and by that I mean marketing communications and also incentives.
And I think you really begin to see normalization of those activities starting in September.
So I think we still face a couple disrupted months that will impact the sales rate and then as you build towards the end of the year I really see everyone who's probably under-budget on marketing cost this year try to drive through their year-end targets.
And we have thousands of customers who have told us they’re waiting for both the specific vehicle that they want and/or different incentives so I think they all come back into the market and we have a strong close with the monthly selling rate moving back over $13 million and by December it's probably high- $13 million if not $14 million for the month of September.
You average all that out though it's still in mid- $12 million in my mind that we end up with and the one caveat of course is that’s assuming that in Washington D.C.
there is some sort of debt deal that gives a roadmap to fiscal responsibility.
Thanks also curious where you see the consumer today the weak SAAR that we saw in 2Q.
How much of that do you think is supply related the lack of incentives do you think the consumer is? I think it's all related to what happened with the Japanese supply because the disruption affected every manufacturer in their marketing plan.
And in a way I think this is a very good indication for the maturity and the adult behavior of the industry rather than unleashing a price war or a market share grab opportunity.
Everybody said let's take the high road here through this and not do anything abnormal.
And on the other hand though I think we're in a fragile recovery that if there is something unusual going on I think it significantly affects sales.
There's not enough demand that you can plow through something like this and not have it impact sales.
But it was a supply-constrained impact on the sales rate and that's why I feel that as that situation normalizes you have both a mini pent-up demand from the spring disruption and you have a macro pent-up demand in principle with the number of vehicles that have been deferred over the last several years and the age of the carpool that says you should have a pretty good selling rate for the second half -- for the last part of the second half of the year.
And how do you [indiscernible] the alternatives in terms of capital allocation today.
It sounds like acquisitions might be the most attractive place to be at this point? Rick it's Mike Short.
The way we think about our capital allocation model Rick is number one the key priority for us always is to have a stellar balance sheet and we continue to focus on that.
Beyond that our next priority is to make sure that we’re allocating CapEx towards stores in a way that makes us proud of the way we serve our customers and it gives our associates a great place to work.
And then beyond that capital is available to the opportunity with the highest return for our shareholders whether that happens to be share repurchase acquisitions as you know from time to time we’ve even bought back debt when that was attractive as well but we're really open to anything that generates return for our shareholders.
Can you comment on valuations that you're seeing out there and how the pipeline looks? Rick it's Mike Maroone.
We're in active discussions with a number of parties on potential deals.
I would say there still appears to be a gap although every deal is a little bit different and as you know our game plan is to fill out brands in our key markets and that's what we're working towards.
The next question is coming from Simeon Gutman from Credit Suisse.
It's Simeon Gutman.
First can you speak to the comments I think in the press release the normalization on new vehicle margins just talk to the timing a bit and I don't know if you'll ever comment on the things you're seeing today but is it naive to think that they can't hold a little longer especially if you sort of get manufacturer-led incentives and as you said you have people waiting already knowing which car they want to buy? This is Mike Jackson.
First to the comment the Japanese have made a monumental effort to restore production moved heaven and earth to make it happen and we're definitely going to see improved shipments in the third quarter compared to the second quarter and we're probably 90 days ahead in the recovery from where we thought we would be when all this was laid out.
So that's a positive.
I think there will be some moderation on new vehicle margins as the supply improves but in principle our goal has been to improve front-end margins during the recovery journey from the absolute of this of a bottom to back towards 15.5 million 16 million units.
So while there'll be some moderations from the strength of the -- let's say a peak with the Japanese during the second quarter I think the trend line is such that we see permanent gains in front end margins exactly what they are I can't say exactly but we see improvements in front-end margins.
Okay thanks.
And then second on SG&amp;A can you talk about your performance relative to sort of the expectations going into the quarter? The commentary on the last call I just got the sense that maybe you'd be even hunkered down even tighter.
So can you talk about maybe some of the longer-term items you're investing in versus the short-term and how you balance that during the quarter? Sure Simeon.
This is Mike Short.
In terms of the long term investments that we're making those are really around 2 core items -- or 2 core components I would say.
First is best process execution of all of our business processes including cost control within our stores.
And to the extent that those help us grow gross or those help us control those SG&amp;A items that will result in an improved SG&amp;A margin as a percentage of gross.
The second is in our shared service center and shared service center-related capabilities whether that's our payroll center or our purchasing area.
And so that as you know is a focus item.
And within this quarter in particular we did call out a hail item that affected several of our stores that was about $5 million in the quarter of additional spend that we hadn't expected.
So that would adjust that number by almost a point in terms of SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross.
And in terms of taking it out a little bit further there have been periods in AutoNation's history where we've operated with SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross below 70%.
I believe our low point was in the mid-68% range and our goal is to get back there as quickly as we can.
The next question is coming from Mr.
John Murphy Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Just a question on floor plan expense versus the assistance.
I mean in the quarter it looks like it was a positive $3.4 million but you mentioned your inventory was up about 59 days supply.
So right around on a days supply where you think -- I guess you’d want to run around 60 days maybe.
I mean is there anything you're doing with your inventory and your floor planning that's going to allow for assistance to outstrip expense and you'd actually have a positive carry on this going forward? Well actually we do have a positive carry on it now John it's about $4 million.
Assistance is generally running around $15 million a quarter the actual expense more like $10 million or $11 million so that kind of bridges those 2 numbers.
In terms of specific actions that we're taking to try and optimize that spread I think we're going continue discussions with our lenders and certainly the fact that we've recently been upgraded to investment grade status will provide us with additional food for agenda topics in those discussions.
Okay.
Then just a second question on the Japanese situation you guys alluded to on the call in your comments that you were able to shift some of those consumers over to used vehicle that was really the first time we've heard that from any of the dealers making that direct a comment.
I was just curious how large that was or from just a sort of anecdotal and really do you have this backlog of a buyer waiting that it is really going to be unlocked as you get this inventory back? John it's Mike Maroone.
We pushed our used vehicle inventory up on purpose.
We moved over 10 000 units in the quarter so we worked very hard to make sure that customers coming into our Honda and Nissan and Toyota stores had ample selection.
I think there was some shift in the quarter as people did come in with a need.
I think there's also customers that held back waiting for the exact vehicle they wanted at the exact price.
So I think there's a little bit of each but we purposefully did drive up our used vehicle inventories moved a lot of vehicles to make sure that those stores continued to have good selection.
I think when you look at our segments the fact that our Import segment was up 25% in profit with a decline of 12% new vehicle sales I really think speaks to that effort both on the new vehicle PVRs and used vehicle volume in those segments.
Yes very impressive.
On framework agreements I mean it sounds like the automakers are getting a little bit more lax with the framework agreements and allowing a lot more acquisitions particularly by the large public groups.
I wonder if you were seeing anything like that and they are finally recognizing that you guys are strong partners as the sales organization to the manufacturing arm? Well I think as the relationship the respectful relationship between the publics and the manufacturers is probably the best ever and many points of friction between the retailers and the manufacturers have been resolved.
As you know we are a major opponent of production push and all the sins that come with that and the fact that in principle production push has moved into the path in truth justice and the American way is one has resolved a lot of the friction points between us and the manufacturers and they really respect the professionalisms that the publics bring to the table and our ability to penetrate the marketing and care for the customer.
So it's overall a better atmosphere but the framework's not an I has changed over -- dotting the Is and crossing the Ts have not changed but I would say the mood is much more constructive.
Okay and thank you.
And then just lastly on share buybacks.
Obviously you got a new addition to your authorization which is pretty large.
Is there anything that restricts you in your RP [ph] baskets or anything like that in covenants in your loans that would restrict you from buying back shares or we're just looking at the leverage ratios as the ceiling first and then as we think longer-term is there anything else out there that we should think of as restricting your share buybacks but other than you' just generating cash flow and buying back shares over time? Just trying to understand how that will progress.
Yes John.
No restrictions.
Short-term or long-term? No there's nothing there on the horizon that looks like it's problematic in terms of our ability to buy back shares.
The next question is coming from Himanshu Patel of JPMC.
This is Vivek Aalok for Himanshu Patel this morning from JPMorgan.
I had a couple of quick questions.
One on used vehicle sales it seemed that used vehicle sales slowed down in the quarter and it was probably partially understandable given the order softness in consumer demand that we had in the quarter.
But do you have any early read on July used vehicle sales maybe you saw some sequential improvement.
And secondly did you see -- do you expect any growth as we move forward and what kind of growth there should we expect as we move into second half? It's Mike Maroone.
I think the used vehicle business slowed down as the new vehicle business did slightly and really it was slower growth.
We did grow on a same-store basis of 3% in volume but 14% in gross.
So I think that it did move in line with the new.
I think the used vehicle business will continue to be strong.
It's an excellent alternative for value conscious buyers and we continue to invest in that segment.
In terms of the July business we generally don't comment on current quarter but I will tell you the business is holding up well and we are very pleased with our 14% improvement in gross.
Okay thanks.
And secondly I may have missed it but did you break down parts of recent revenue growth into individual buckets warranty customer pay et cetera? We do.
And from a gross point of view our customer pay business was up 1 warranty was down 6 collision was up 5.
Collision was up 5 okay.
And finally on your used vehicle gross margin outlook in the second half we may see some pressure on used vehicle prices as we move into second half as new vehicle sales pick up.
Do you expect some pressure on your used vehicle gross margin? I think that the reason that we try and keep our vehicle inventories around a one-month supply or a little bit more is to deal with those kinds of situations.
There is always some seasonal adjustments in every summer toward the end of the summer you see some -- you see the market change a little bit and I think we'll be ready and be responsive to that change.
So I don't think you'll see anything abnormal this year but certainly there's seasonality in used vehicle pricing.
The last question is coming from Patrick Archambault of Goldman Sachs.
Actually just building on the used question.
The used-to-new ratio is quite high.
Clearly that market plus the efforts you've had you've put into it in terms of building inventories and capabilities have worked.
Can you tell us a little bit about how you expect that ratio to perform going forward.
I mean clearly as new recovers there's going to be some share taken away from new and one would expect that business to slow but then again right you have all these things that you've done that position you better in that business relative to a year ago.
So just kind of thinking about the trade-off there? Patrick it's Mike Maroone.
We're confident that we can continue to drive volume on the used vehicle side.
Our current quarter was 0.83:1.
A year ago we were 0.78 and I think the real difference is the growth we've had in what we call the VVOs the Value Vehicle Outlets.
So we're really looking to retail more and wholesale less and I'm confident we can sustain that trend so that -- there's a lot of pieces to the used car business but a certified pre-owned is also an important segment that generally runs about 1/3 of the business and so we are pushing that segment across all brands as well as running the VVO locations that are now up to 26 and we'll continue to expand that.
So I think you'll see us continue to push on that number.
I think there is some more upside it's really about retail execution and the ability to get the right products at the right price at the right time.
Okay great.
And just one more I guess your SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross was $71.6 million I believe I think you said that the hail if I understood you correctly was maybe about a point on that.
So you would have been closer to $70.6 million.
Thinking about what did you guys do kind of on a temporary basis to help you bring that down in the face of all the Japan-related stuff in terms of cutting advertising and things like that that may come back in subsequent quarters or is this kind of a level that you guys can further build on? I mean I know you said that ultimately down the road you could even be below $70 million? Yes Patrick it's Mike Short.
We look for continued improvement in this ratio going forward.
It's one of our core strategies to maintain this level of disciplined financial management we will certainly continue to do that and leverage some of the fixed costs within SG&amp;A.
As time goes on I would say in terms of temporary things I think there were some areas where we pulled back in certain areas of advertising but I wouldn't -- by the same token there were other areas where we spent a little bit more.
So I wouldn't characterize the nature of anything that we did in the quarter as kind of short-term cuts that are going to come back in the future.
I think it's just part of the ongoing strategy for AutoNation.
Everyone thank you for your time today.
We very much appreciate it.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
All parties may disconnect at this time.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to AutoNation's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Cheryl Scully Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations for AutoNation.
Ma'am you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to AutoNation's Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Leading our call today will be Mike Jackson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mike Maroone our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Short our Chief Financial Officer.
Following their remarks we will open up the call for questions.
Kate Keyser [indiscernible] and I will also be available by phone following the call to address any additional questions that you may have.
Before we begin let me read our brief statement regarding forward-looking comments and the use of non-GAAP financial measures.
Certain statements and information on this call will constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve risks which may cause the actual results or performance to differ materially from expectations.
Additional discussions of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are contained in our SEC filings.
Certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules may be discussed on this call.
The reconciliations are provided in our press release which is available on our website at investors.autonation.com.
And now I'll turn the call over to AutoNation's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mike Jackson.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
Today we reported earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.48 a record for third quarter results up 23% compared to the $0.39 in the third quarter of 2010.
Operating income increased 19% to $144 million compared to the period a year ago.
Third quarter 2011 revenue totaled $3.5 billion compared to $3.3 billion in the year-ago period an increase of 7% driven primarily by higher new and used vehicle average selling prices.
Based on CNW Research data in the third quarter total U.S.
industry new retail vehicle unit sales increased 1%.
In the third quarter AutoNation's total new vehicle unit sales were flat and on a same-store basis declined 2% as the Japanese earthquake affected availability of vehicles produced by the Japanese manufacturers.
This quarter we once again demonstrated that our diversified business model is the right strategy as well as our ability to rapidly adapt to change and execute effectively in a changing marketplace.
In light of the Japanese supply constraints we adjusted our operating plan to optimize our inventories and maximize gross profit.
While shipments from the Japanese manufacturers improved in the third quarter the inventory levels for these vehicles remained constrained.
We would expect that the improving supply environment will result in sequentially lower margins on these vehicles in the fourth quarter.
I'll now turn the call over to Chief Financial Officer Mike Short.
Thank you Mike and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
For the third quarter we reported net income from continuing operations of $71 million or $0.48 per share versus $59 million or $0.39 per share during the third quarter of 2010 a 23% improvement on a per-share basis.
There were no adjustments to net income in either period.
Last quarter we indicated that we expected to receive the remaining incentives under the premium luxury program during the second half of 2011.
We did not receive any of these incentives during the third quarter but expect to receive approximately $2 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
This compares to gross profit from incentives of $13 million received in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Third quarter revenue increased $233 million or 7% compared to prior year and gross profit improved by $30 million or 5% for the quarter.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross profit was 71.5% for the quarter which represents a 240-basis-point improvement compared to the year-ago period.
Net new vehicle floorplan was a benefit of $6.6 million for the quarter an increase of $1.9 million compared to the $4.7 million benefit in the third quarter of 2010.
This improvement was due to lower floorplan interest expense driven by lower credit spreads compared to the prior-year period.
Floorplan assistant -- assistance rates also increased compared to the third quarter of 2010.
Floorplan debt was approximately $1.51 billion at quarter end a decrease of approximately $162 million from June 30 2011 in line with the inventory levels.
Non-vehicle interest expense was $16.4 million for the quarter an increase compared to the $16.1 million we reported in the third quarter of 2010 due to higher debt levels.
During the quarter we borrowed $25 million under our revolving credit facility resulting in $300 million of outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility at the end of September.
Our third quarter non-vehicle debt balance was $1.49 billion an increase of $107 million compared to the third quarter of 2010.
The provision for income tax for the quarter was $45 million or 38.8%.
By comparison the tax rate in the third quarter of 2010 was 37.5% which reflected the benefit of certain favorable tax adjustments.
From July 1 2011 through October 19 2011 we repurchased 7.2 million shares for $247 million at an average price of $34.45 per share.
Today we announced that our Board authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $250 million of AutoNation common stock.
AutoNation has $316 million now remaining in Board authorization for share repurchase.
As of October 19 there were 139.9 million shares outstanding.
We incurred $50 million in capital expenditures for the quarter reflecting our commitment to continue to reinvest in the business.
For the full year we expect to incur $145 million in CapEx net of proceeds from related asset sales.
We remain within the limits of our financial covenants.
Our leverage ratio at September 30 was 2.38x or 2.11x on a net debt basis including used floorplan availability compared to our limit of 3.25x.
Our quarter-end cash balance was $67 million which combined with our additional borrowing capacity resulted in a healthy total liquidity of $446 million at the end of September.
Our robust balance sheet strong cash flow generation and disciplined cost structure position us to continue to invest in our business.
We remain focused on actively allocating capital to maximize shareholder returns.
Now let me turn you over to our President and Chief Operating Officer Mike Maroone.
Thanks Mike and good morning.
In the quarter we continued to navigate the Japanese product disruption and economic uncertainty while growing both revenue and total gross profit.
We delivered strong new vehicle and finance and insurance gross margins and a solid operating margin of 4.1% a 40-basis-point improvement year-over-year.
Third quarter total segment income of $134 million grew 22% or $24 million compared to the period a year ago with increases across all 3 segments.
The $65 million Import segment income increased $14 million or 27% to more [ph] to the second quarter.
This improvement is attributable in large part to increased new vehicle gross profit as inventory supply remained constrained.
The Domestic segment at $47 million increased $4 million or 10%.
And the most stable segment Premium Luxury increased $2 million or 4% to $50 million.
As I continue my comments will be on a same-store basis unless noted otherwise.
In the quarter AutoNation retailed 55 000 new vehicles up 2% year-over-year for same stores compared to the industry that was up 1% at retail according to CNW.
Even with extremely tight supply of higher-demand models in all segments we realized increased unit sales of 12% in the Domestic segment and 11% in the Premium Luxury segment on a total store basis.
However these increases were largely offset by a drop of 10% in import volume due to the ongoing effect of the Japanese inventory disruption.
From a geography standpoint Texas continued as our strongest market in the quarter.
Florida and our western markets while in recovery were more heavily impacted by the Japanese inventory disruption due to the higher mix of large import stores in these states.
At $1.8 billion new vehicle same-store revenue increased $62 million or 4% driven by increased revenue per vehicle retailed which at $33 000 was up $1 900 or 6% with increases in each segment.
Gross profit for new vehicle retailed of $2 456 reflects an increase of $462 or 23% with improvement across all 3 segments.
New vehicle gross profit as a percent of revenue was 7.3% of an increase of 100 basis points compared to the period a year ago.
We attribute these improvements to the tactical plan we implemented in the second quarter in response to Japanese inventory disruption.
We also continued to utilize our proprietary web-based pricing tool described during our second quarter call.
The tool captures various market pricing metrics and establishes target in floor prices by model.
While we are very pleased with strong new vehicle margin growth we expect some moderation as inventory levels continue to normalize.
I'll also note that in the fourth quarter of 2010 our new vehicle margins benefited by about $250 on a per-vehicle basis from additional performance-based manufacturer incentives.
At September 30 new vehicle days supply was 45 days or 34 000 units compared to 57 days or 42 000 units a year ago.
Looking ahead our new vehicle inventory will continue to build throughout the fourth quarter and we expect to reach normal levels in the first quarter of 2012.
Turning to used vehicles.
AutoNation retailed 43 000 used vehicles on a same-store basis in the quarter up 1% versus the period a year ago.
Our used-to-new ratio in the quarter was 0.79 up from 0.76 a year ago.
Same-store retail used vehicle revenue of $776 million increased $33 million or 5% year-over-year.
Revenue per used vehicle retailed of $17 600 was up $560 or 3% as industry used vehicle prices remained strong in the quarter due to consumer demand and tight inventory availability.
Same-store retail used vehicle gross profit of $66 million declined 2% and gross profit per vehicle retailed at $1 529 was up 3% compared to the period a year ago.
In the quarter we noted a 6% increase in appraisals and a 7% increase in trade-ins acquired compared to the period a year ago with a close ratio of 47%.
I'll also note that we continue to move used vehicles to locations that will drive a faster turn and higher gross.
In the period we moved nearly 11 000 vehicles with good success at retail.
At September 30 used vehicle days supply was 43 days compared to 46 days a year ago and 47 days at June 30.
During the quarter we've reduced our used vehicle days supply to better prepare for seasonal pricing changes and we experienced moderate wholesale loss.
Same-store parts service and collision revenue of $569 million increased $5 million or 1% compared to the quarter a year ago.
We're pleased with our results in customer pay where revenue increased up 3% to $193 million.
It marks the fifth consecutive quarter of year-over-year increases.
This gain was more than offset by a significant decline in warranty revenue where our repair order count dropped about 10% year-over-year.
We attribute this to the ongoing trend of fewer units in operation and improved vehicle quality.
Gross profit of $238 million declined to $8 million or 3% compared to the quarter a year ago.
Customer pay gross profit grew by 2%.
However gains here were offset by a 15% decline in warranty gross profit.
As for pay gross profit was up for the fifth consecutive quarter year-over-year driven in part by aggressive efforts to grow tire sales and other lower-margin service offerings both aimed at increasing customer retention.
I'll also note that there was one less working day in the quarter compared to a year ago.
Turning to F&amp;I we continue to be pleased with our industry-leading performance.
Total gross profit in the quarter was $119 million an increase of $7 million or 7% compared to a year ago.
Same-store gross profit for vehicle retailed was $1 200 $1 214 per vehicle up $84 or 7% compared to a year ago.
Results continue to be driven by solid process execution which drove improved rate and product commissions.
We continue to benefit from our strong preferred lender network for prime non-prime and sub-prime as well as strong product penetration.
The credit environment was solid and stable in the quarter.
At September 30 our store portfolio numbered 214 stores and 257 franchises representing 32 brands in 15 states.
In the quarter we opened GO FIAT in Denver and added 2 smart franchises to existing Mercedes-Benz stores.
Our corporate real estate team is also wrapping up several other significant projects that are slated for completion by year end.
Looking ahead we are actively seeking acquisition opportunities that meet our market brand and return on investment criteria.
In closing in the quarter we delivered a 19% increase in operating income along with record third quarter EPS.
We did it with best-ever customer satisfaction levels low associate turnover a disciplined cost structure and a one team one goal approach.
I'd like to thank all of our 20 000 associates for their commitment and dedication to AutoNation.
And with that I'll turn the call back to Mike Jackson.
Thanks Mike.
Our record third quarter results once again demonstrate our leadership position in the industry and the strength of our diversified and adaptable business model.
We are optimistic about the long-term recovery for the U.S.
auto market and our ability to capitalize on it.
We'll continue to use the planning assumption for 2011 full year U.S.
industry sales at mid-12 million new vehicle units.
And now I'd like to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is coming from John Murphy Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hey John you there? [Technical Difficulty] Research Division</strong> Sorry about that I just got -- just talked on from another call.
I have sort of a longer-term question for you guys.
I mean as we look at the first 3 quarters of this year the SAARs run at about 12.5 million units.
And if we look back to a period of time where you had similar earnings to what you did in the first 3 quarters of this year it would be really the first 3 quarters of 2007 when we saw it was 16.1 million units.
And looking at that you guys have really kind of shut the lights out here on execution and growing your earnings or stabilizing your earnings in a tough time.
I'm just curious as we step forward and the SAAR really recovers do you think there's any cost creep or any risk that this great execution kind of slips a little bit? Or are we just looking at this real paradigm shift in your earnings potential here and that as we see the SAAR increase hopefully dramatically over the next couple of years that you really can earn significantly more money than you have in the past? John I'd answer it this way.
First we give an outlook on where we think the industry and the market is going.
And there we are convinced that this market is on a journey back to something around 16 million units plus or minus 500 000 either way.
And I think there's 3 fundamental drivers to that.
There's definite pent-up demand genuine replacement need -- the cars that we are appraising everyday and looking at are old and tired and the customers want to trade them in with the average age pushing 11 years.
At the same time for the brands we represent every manufacturer is there with a fantastic product cadence and with the full spectrum of small cars through pickup trucks.
And finally the financing for our customers is very much available and very much at attractive rates.
The banks and the finance companies during this disruptive period from '08 'til today really took minimal if any losses in automotive retail.
And consequently since there's still stress in commercial real estate in the whole mortgage market in small business loans they are really interested in the automotive space.
So those 3 factors of genuine replacement need exciting new products and very good financing available convinces me that we're on the road back to 16 million.
And the only debate is the rate of the recovery.
I think then also speaking of '08 '09 and '10 if you looked at AutoNation's performance and knew everyone's validation of the work that we were doing with our eye on the long term I mean that was the ultimate test.
And if you look at our performance relative to competition I think we really distinguished ourselves.
Now having said all that we don't give forward guidance per se.
We say "Hey look at our past performance.
Look at where we think the market is going " and the rest is really up to you.
John this is Mike Short.
Let me just add a thought on the operating leverage because I think that's tangentially related to the question that you asked.
And I think what we've tried to communicate in the past is we think right now our operating cost structure is about 50% fixed and 50% variable.
And with the variable elements largely being compensation and things that are commission structure-based.
So as time passes we would expect to see that leverage continue to drop to the bottom line.
And we're operating at a pretty -- at dramatically improved SG&amp;A as a percentage of growths from where we were a year or 2 ago but we're still not back to where we've been at the past.
We've been down below 70% as in SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross in the past and our goal is to get back there and continue to drive that number lower.
And we're -- we've been investing as Mike mentioned throughout the downturn in some of the very important initiatives that we have and including our Shared Service Center and that's coming along very well.
We're almost done with the rollout of that.
We have one region left to go that we should do next year as well as building new capabilities.
For example we're only starting -- we're in the very early innings of developing our ability to leverage our purchasing capability.
And so there's additional opportunity out there for us.
But we're working hard on it and I think you're seeing it in the results.
Research Division</strong> And second question.
Obviously pricing was strong in the quarter.
That was a really good factor for yourselves and the industry.
There's some real concern that is Toyota and Honda restocked that we're going to see this new round of pricing wars as they try to call back some of their lost market share which I'm not sure I would really agree with.
I just wanted to hear your thoughts on that specifically because it doesn't make a whole lot sense to me given that inventory is tight across-the-board and probably will still be tight there.
And it seems not to be too logical but this is a real prevailing thought that pricing might erode significantly and may impact your business as well as the industry at large.
John it's Mike Jackson first and then I'll have Mike Maroone discuss it in more detail.
In principle I see a much more rational sustainable industry than what we've had in the past.
And I think the manufacturers have really fundamentally changed their outlook.
Not to say it won't be competitive but I really don't see a price war being unleashed as the Japanese availability improves in the marketplace.
I think incentives will step up somewhat.
But my sense on Domestic is that they know they've stabilized their share.
They know -- they may even have improved their share somewhat but that they have a spike in share due to the lack of availability by the Japanese.
And I don't see any steps on their part to do mega-programs like that we had in the summer of '05 of employee pricing in order to try to keep their share at $47.5.
So I don't expect that.
I expect that it'll be normal marketing between here and now and by that I mean aggressive and competitive but no attempt to say the domestics have to stay in the high 40s.
Having said all of that I think we have had an extraordinary detour away from normal marketing for 6 months with this unique situation with the Japanese.
We learned a lot from it with our pricing tools some of that I think is the permanent value to us but there'll probably be some impact on front-end gross profit going into the fourth quarter.
But I don't see anything dramatic in [indiscernible] like that.
John just to support Mike's view.
We're about to roll out version 3 of our pricing tool.
And we believe that we've really developed a new capability in this disruption.
No I don't believe we can maintain our Q2 and Q3 margins but we definitely believe that there's opportunity over where we've been in the past.
We've improved margins both on the Domestic side and the Premium Luxury side and the Import side so we're optimistic.
We're updating our pricing weekly now.
Our whole organization is focused on it.
We just got done doing our quarterly operating reviews and everybody is confident that we have developed a new capability and we can put it to good use going forward.
I do want to point out as I did in my script though that in Q4 we've got a comp that includes about $250 a car that was a onetime performance-based incentive last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly on the share repurchase program or the new one that's been in place and what's been going on for years.
From 2003 to where we are right now you've cut your share count in half.
If you were to keep that rate up you guys would have bought back all your shares in the next 8 years if you've kept up that absolute rate.
I'm just curious as to -- all of us in the investment community is thinking about where your share count ultimately will go and really what the end goal is here.
It almost seems like it's a slow-motion or maybe not even such a slow-motion privatization of the company.
Just curious how far do the share buybacks go? Obviously they make a lot of sense from a capital structure standpoint.
But just curious how far you go with this.
Well I think share buyback has been very beneficial for our shareholders over the years.
And I think it's actually on my watch more than 1/2.
I think when I arrived it was something like 530 million shares outstanding and today we're at 140 million shares outstanding.
And if you look at how we bought in this the last quarter again we did it opportunistically.
The -- there's a lot of volatility in the equity markets that applies to us also.
So large price swings within the quarter and we saw moments where we could step in and take advantage of it.
Whether we'll have those types of opportunities in the future no one knows.
We don't know.
So again we have the same capital allocation approach that we've had since I've been here.
And there is no end game specific in mind.
We decided on a quarter-by-quarter basis looking at the opportunities on acquisitions and we have share repurchase opportunities.
And we discuss the full range of capital allocation possibilities that are there.
And we make those decisions on a quarterly basis.
The next question is coming from Himanshu Patel of JPMorgan Chase.
Research Division</strong> This is Amy Carroll in for Himanshu Patel.
I had -- have a few questions.
I wanted to touch base a little bit on the retail used vehicle margin.
I think like last quarter you guys had suggested that it would be -- pricing would be more of an issue but that the margin would still be relatively okay.
I mean I heard what you just said to John but do you mind just kind of drilling down a little bit deeper on what was the change and what was expected versus what actually occurred? It's Mike Maroone Amy.
A couple of things.
One is we have continued to grow what we call the VVO or Value Vehicle Outlet business which are lower-priced cars that have the lower margins.
We retailed 4 300 of those in the quarter at lower margin but we believe we're expanding our customer base in doing so.
So that was one.
Secondly is as the inventory disruption occurred we got very aggressive buying Hondas Toyotas and other import products.
And frankly the market shifted slightly as they began to resume production.
That production resumption was a little bit ahead of schedule and so what we did is we liquidated some of that inventory and took both -- took small wholesale losses but also took lower retail grosses.
So I think that it was a little bit of an unusual situation but we felt that we wanted to get right-sized so that we could compete in both the new and used vehicle business.
I think the third factor is that the Premium Luxury segment had far less of lease returns and those were generally high-margin business that we did not -- we're not able to take advantage of in that quarter.
So all in all our used car business was up slightly.
We did give up a little bit of gross but we feel very good about our position today and our inventories are clean and in good shape.
And we're looking forward to performing in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And could you just clarify how many of the Japanese -- I think you said 44 total days of use or 43.
Do you have a breakout of like the different like J3 versus domestics and premium? Generally I don't have it at the tip of my fingers but it generally doesn't change much.
We try and run normally in a 35- to 38-day supply and I think you'll see our inventories in that range in the fourth quarter but it doesn't vary greatly.
Where we did have exposure in our import we did bring that down at the end of the quarter.
And again as I said we're in good shape today.
So that doesn't vary much by segment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last question I had was on your comments about interest and acquisitions.
Are you guys looking to fill in like brands or footprint? Or you could give a little bit color on what you're looking for and what the size like what you see in terms of size potential that you could possibly have appetite for.
This is Mike Jackson.
We've had basically the same diversified strategy since I've been here.
But when it comes acquisitions the principle is density and all the major brands in the market.
So we are very much focused on our existing footprint not going to additional markets.
And then we're targeted.
And ultimately ideally someday we'd like to have all the major brands within the markets that we're in.
We think there's a lot of power in that idea in that concept.
Whether we'll be able to get there or not is another story entirely but that's where the focus of our acquisition team is and that's where we'd ultimately like to be.
The next question is coming from Rick Nelson of Stephens.
Research Division</strong> You are hearing that crown stock the dealer locks [ph] is building very slowly and your 45 days supply would suggest that.
When do you think we're going to normally inventory levels? I couldn't hear the question Rick.
Was it on the Japanese 3? Did...
Research Division</strong> Do you have -- for the J3 getting back to normalized inventory levels.
What do you think? We have an excellent shipment schedule from the Japanese for the fourth quarter something over 30 000 units for us.
With adding some sort of perspective I would say normally we would like to have gotten 27 000.
We got under 20 000 in the third quarter and even less than that in the second quarter.
So clearly they are approaching 100% if not 110% 115% on production side.
You have to make an assumption on what the selling rate of that is going to be.
We think it's going to be fairly high.
Meaning to get back to an inventory level that -- of 45 to 60 days that would make sense you're probably in the first quarter of next year if not even into the second quarter depending how the selling rate goes.
But so the point is we'll have good shipments.
We'll have good fresh inventory that's aligned with what customers want.
But to really restock is going to take some time of shipments above 100% of market demand.
Research Division</strong> In that type of environment Mike would you think the incentives out of the J3 would probably be relatively restrained and you'd be able to hang on to some of those gross profit into your foresight [ph]? I agree with that Rick.
I think there will be some increase in the incentives.
The Japanese clearly have to stabilize if not recover some share.
But I don't see a price war being unleashed that is going to be ruinous for manufacturers and retailers as far as their margins.
I think the whole industry is much more rational much more long-term view and that's how I expect it to unfold.
So it won't be the extreme shortages that we've had for the past 6 months but it's still -- there's still going to be a imbalance between demand and supply.
And I think there'll be some moderation of foreign [ph] grosses but it will not be dramatic.
Research Division</strong> And Mike you've been very accurate with your SAAR forecast as long as I have followed the company.
Any initial thoughts on 2012? [indiscernible] a flat SAAR for 2012? Yes you won't hear the word flat coming out of my mouth.
So I think I disagree with that point of view.
Again going back to the 3 fundamental drivers: genuine replacement need exciting new products really wonderful financing available.
So everything that we look at as sales will be higher next year than they were this year.
And I really want to see the inflection rate and the closing selling rate of December to put a number out and say this is where we think 2012 is going to come out but it will -- I fully expect it will be a number higher than the final number of 2011.
It will not be flat.
It will be up.
The only question is how much up? The next question is coming from Simeon Gutman of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Mike so following up on the SAAR issue.
The 13.1 that we did in September does that tell you that demand is ready to burst little bit at the seams when the inventory comes back here in the next few months? Or it's just a big mix shift that's going to happen? Yes I think that's what I'm waiting for the fourth quarter to unfold.
You never want to forecast next year of as September.
September is always the squirrely month with a significant SAAR adjustment factor in it.
So I'd really like to see how the fourth quarter unfolds to really make a sound judgment on what next year will be.
So -- and I think it's really just too soon to say with too many variables other than I fundamentally believe that 2012 will be higher than 2011.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
And then if I heard right there was one less day of I guess work in the service -- in the parts and service business.
If that's right can you just quantify if it was significant any impact on the comp? And then just as far as the gross margin goes and even a little bit of the top line flowing from warranty unless we get to a new car SAAR something 14-ish or high 13s anytime soon it doesn't seem like the whole supply is going to change rapidly.
So are we in a new normal here for parts and service for the time being? It's Mike Maroone.
The one less day adds about 1%.
So on a customer pay gross we go from 2% to 3% just as an example.
So it does impact the calculation.
In terms of where that business is going we think there'll be pressures on the units and operation for another year.
We kind of see a tipping point at the end of '12 beginning of '13 where it begins to climb again so we are very optimistic about that business.
So certainly we've had significant warranty compression but I think when you really think about that that's a good thing.
It really speaks to the products the quality of the products that's coming out and the customer experience with those products.
So we really focus on the customer pay side where we're being very aggressive in our customer offerings and are really glad to be growing that business 5 consecutive quarters on a year-over-year basis with our initiatives.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one more on -- maybe for Mike Short.
The incentives that you're cycling they've been mentioned several times now.
It's a pretty fair amount and there's a little bit of offset it sounds like.
Are there any other offsets to that whereby the total EBIT dollar amount for the business -- or at least the way it's shaping up it looks like it's going to be pressured or challenged to show growth I mean given the SAAR environment we're in now unless it gets a lot better.
So how do you think about that as far as showing that growth year-over-year? Simeon I think that's why we pointed those numbers out to you because they do disrupt the trend lines a bit and there's not a normal -- there's not an offsetting amount for it.
So that's why we've called it to your attention.
I think the other thing to consider is that to the extent that they improve PVR is that it has a beneficial effect on compensation rates as well.
So -- but there's not an offsetting amount anywhere else in the P&amp;L for it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then was there any -- in SG&amp;A was there any item spend item that were cut back more so in this quarter than the previous even though the sales rate picked up a little with something short-term such as marketing? No.
When you look at the components of SG&amp;A I think the real strength in the quarter what was in the compensation rate in terms of the overall components of the SG&amp;A as a percentage of growth.
And again I would point to the fact that while there's good control around the overall compensation structure to begin with the fact that you put those numbers on higher gross profits per unit sold really is an amplifying effect.
I mean if I could add.
It's Mike Maroone.
We have really focused on productivity.
And while our gross is up our headcount is relatively flat.
And Mike Jackson has really talked all through the downturn about us making the appropriate investments in developing our people and providing better and better technology.
So we're really seeing a -- we're seeing a lot more productive workforce so that defines what the cost control is really working for us.
The next question is coming from Patrick Archambault of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just on the -- I wanted to circle back on the some of the future efficiency gains that were referred to in one of the questions.
I think you had mentioned that in terms of the Shared Service Center you had one region that was left to go.
And then interestingly you had mentioned purchasing.
I would like to hear a little bit more about that.
Are there actual purchasing benefits that you can get? I suppose you can get them on the used side but on the new side by having efficiencies with your different manufacturers or is it in other places? It's Mike Jackson.
First the entire company is on the Shared Service Center for certain accounting functions to be clear.
And we had one region to go where we take them to the full level.
And Mike maybe you'd talk a little bit about the different levels there? And then you can talk about purchasing.
Yes.
So Patrick the -- within the Shared Service Center there's the base level and that's accounts payable receivables bank reconciliations.
And as Mike mentioned we've rolled that out now.
And for the -- over a year we've had everybody in that configuration.
The real -- the next level which we call extended is -- has much more beneficial effect in terms of the cost structure.
And that's where we actually shift the actual car transactions electronically to our Shared Service Center and they're all processed directly from the Shared Service Center.
Just to give you an anecdotal example of that: In all of our stores today that are not in the extended Shared Service Center model you have 1 maybe 2 people responsible for billing the car deals.
For the 3 regions 75% of the company that we have in the Shared Service Center in extended right now able to do all of that billing with 8 people.
So it gives you a sense of the magnitude of the efficiencies that we can generate and why we're so bullish on the Shared Service Center model here at AutoNation.
And yes it's running very well in the 3 regions where we have it operating right now.
So Florida region is the only region that has not yet gone into extended Shared Service Center.
We're just completing the central region right now and Florida will go next year.
So I think that's the key behind it.
On the purchasing side we do have a sourcing group here within the company.
They're doing a great job.
We're thinking about now that we've demonstrated the capability expanding their scope to other spend areas.
I want to be clear though: We're not talking about the -- purchasing new vehicles from manufacturers at different prices.
This is primarily in SG&amp;A items potentially aftermarket parts purchases and things like that.
It's less about the buying of vehicles.
With respect to our used vehicle business we do have people who have specific expertise in buying used vehicles on behalf of our stores but that's different than the kind of core purchasing areas in SG&amp;A and parts and service that I'm talking about.
And coming -- it's Mike Jackson again coming back to the Shared Service Center.
So of course there's a cost benefit and an efficiency benefit but the transparency and the controls that we have in the enterprise through the capabilities of the Shared Service Center are really remarkable.
And again I think it has epitomized it's a project that epitomizes AutoNation.
It's a 5- 6-year project Mike? At least.
5- 6-year project that is quite daunting at the beginning.
It took a lot of investment in the early years a lot of disruption a lot of pain.
But we know at a certain point it would turn and pay a tremendous benefit to the company and we're willing to do that in a lot of different areas of the enterprise.
And over time that builds a momentum for the company.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's very helpful.
In terms of -- in that case right I mean if you look at the past years where you've hit sales numbers in that 16 15 16 range that you've cited over the long term we could get to you've been at SG&amp;A at a gross profit of as low as 71 on an annualized basis.
Just given where you are and just how far along you are in some of these initiatives can you get materially below that ratio in a similar kind of volume environment? That's the goal Patrick.
And we've been below 70% on -- in individual quarters.
We've had a quarter that was at 68% and changed and so we're targeting that.
And we -- the entire organization is focused on it.
It's not just the finance organization.
I would point out that these ratios have both a numerator and a denominator to it and the partnership that exists between the finance organization and the operations team at AutoNation is one of the hallmarks of the company.
And because we're able to work together to identify benchmarking opportunities we can drive both the numerator and the dominator.
And the breadth of the portfolio that we have allows us to do benchmarking analysis and the number of things that we build capabilities around that are unique to AutoNation that separate us from our peer group.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And one last one.
I'd be remiss if I didn't ask about how auto sales were trending this month.
It sounds like some of the initial 10-day service were pretty good but any color on that? Well we never -- as again one of the things we never give color on during the mid of the month.
However we're the one company that will report on new vehicle retail sales at the end of every month to try to give you the most accurate information in a timely manner.
If there's one thing I learned in this business is in the middle of the month in the car business is not a good time to stick your neck out as to what's going to happen.
You wait 'til the end of the month when it's clear and the dust settles and you go out and make a clear statement.
So that's how we do it.
And I think next week we'll be out with our number.
The last question is coming from Colin Langan of UBS.
Research Division</strong> It seems like that manically you had enjoyed quite a bit of cash during the quarter.
You repurchased $195 million shares worth of shares and your cash was down only $15 million and that was only up about $50 million.
So which part of the -- I guess a lot of that was from working capital.
Which part of the working capital actually drove a lot of the cash flow generation for that? It's driven by a number of things Colin.
Working capital is a primary component of it.
The actual details of what's within working capital we haven't broken out in the past.
The inventory size we've worked down the used inventory and some of the declines in new inventory don't affect at all that much because those are financed through our floorplan facility.
So it's really managing payables and receivables.
Research Division</strong> And so when you rebuild some of the used inventory in the future does -- will that mean you're going to dip into the revolver to...
More at -- right now much of that used inventory is forward so it doesn't require us tapping into the revolver to the extent that we have the floorplan capacity to continue to do that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you were talking before about parts and services.
I don't know if I got this right but you said that the tipping point I guess would be 2012.
And what does that mean? Is that when that is when it will be the worst? And does that mean it should be relatively flat until that point? And why 2012 just things suddenly start to get better? It's Mike Maroone.
It's really 2012 to 2013 and that's the units in operation.
And that really reflects the downturn in the '08/'09 period and the improvement in sales in '10 '11 and '12.
So that units in operation.
You'll see vehicles beginning to be scrapped and you'll see more -- the increase in sales basically will drive the UIO.
And there's not a precise moment.
But we do believe that we have been in a downward trend in UIO we know we have been and we believe that'll turn back upward in the '12/'13 timeframe.
Research Division</strong> And from your sales perspective is that -- I mean that downturn has been a current headwind so it's not that we're going to see negative declines in parts and services over the next year or...
No I think that well there's been strong headwind on the warranty side that really reflects the UIO and quality and we've really worked hard to offset that on the customer pay side.
So the customer pay is about 1/3 of our revenue and about 45% of our gross margins so that's why we focus so much on the customer pay side.
And our goal is to keep it positive and keep that business growing through our customer pay initiatives.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in that business you mentioned the margins were hit by increasing tire sales.
Does that mean that the current margin is a normal run rate? Or is this maybe a bit lower than normal because it's down sequentially? We -- our focus has really been on serving all of our customers' needs and really broadening out our service offerings in what we call good better best as well as tires.
Some of those activities are lower margin and our tire business is one.
That's a low margin business but it keeps customers in our service department.
It gives us an opportunity to make additional offerings.
So I don't -- we don't project our margins going further down but at the same time we're willing to compete for all kinds of businesses the high-margin part of the business and there are opportunities to compete.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last question.
I know last year earnings were up from Q3 to Q4 but that is sort of not normal seasonality and I guess you did point out luxury is a part of that.
But we do seem to be heading in a period where it sounds like Q4 actually might from a sales perspective be pretty strong.
Does that -- could that pattern -- I mean is it -- would it be surprising again to see abnormal seasonality where earnings actually rise into the fourth quarter? I don't really understand the question.
Yes I missed the piece of that.
Please if you could say that again Colin? Research Division</strong> Well I believe historically from Q3 to Q4 you usually see earnings decline because usually auto sales fall.
I think it was the opposite last year.
Is that possible to see that again this year or should we go back to normal seasonality again? Well if you're asking for earnings guidance we don't give earnings guidance.
So we call where the market is we talk about our past performance but we don't give earning guidance.
So everyone thank you for your time today.
Appreciate it very much.
This will conclude today's conference.
All parties may disconnect at this time.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to AutoNation's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I will turn the call over to Ms.
Cheryl Scully Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations for AutoNation.
Good morning and welcome to AutoNation's fourth quarter and full year 2011 conference call and webcast.
Leading our call today will be Mike Jackson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mike Maroone our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Short our Chief Financial Officer.
Following their remarks we will open up the call for questions.
Kate Keyser-Pearlman and I will also be available by phone following the call to address any additional questions that you may have.
Before we begin let me read our brief statement regarding forward-looking comments and the use of non-GAAP financial measures.
Certain statements and information on this call will constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve risks which may cause the actual results or performance to differ materially from expectations.
Additional discussions of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are contained in our SEC filings.
Certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules may be discussed on this call.
Reconciliations are available on our Investor Relations website at investors.autonation.com under Financials.
And now I'll turn the call over to AutoNation's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mike Jackson.
Good morning thank you for joining us.
Today we reported an all-time record adjusted quarterly EPS from continuing operations of $0.51 for the fourth quarter a 13% increase on a per share basis as compared to $0.45 for the same period in the prior year.
Fourth quarter 2011 revenue totaled $3.7 billion compared to $3.2 billion in the year-ago period an increase of 13% driven primarily by stronger new and used vehicle revenue.
We also reported an increase of 7% in operating income to $144 million.
In the fourth quarter total U.S.
industry new vehicle retail sales increased 7% based on CNW Research data.
In comparison during the same period AutoNation's new vehicle unit sales increased 13% or 10% on a same-store sales basis.
For the full year adjusted EPS from continuing operations of $1.94 was a record up 24% over prior year.
Revenue for the full year was up 11% over the prior year.
In 2011 we repurchased 17.1 million shares or $583 million average price of $34.14.
From January 1 to January 25 2012 we have repurchased an additional 3.5 million shares or $122 million at an average price per share of $34.74.
Since the year I arrived in 1999 we have bought back 395 million shares or $6.5 billion at an average price of $16.44 per share.
Today we also announced that our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $250 million of AutoNation common stock.
AutoNation has $278 million remaining board authorization for share repurchase.
AutoNation has an optimal brand and market mix that position us well for strong performance and new vehicle sales as the market rebounds.
As we look at 2012 we believe that the improvement in new vehicle sales will continue.
The recovery has 3 drivers: the first is the aged fleet on the road which is now approaching 11 years old; the second is the accelerated price of new products being launched by the manufacturers; and finally the availability of credit financing to our customers.
Our planning assumption for 2012 industry new vehicle light sales is 14 million units which should be around a 10% improvement over 2011.
We have been consistently demonstrating our ability to perform in what we expect to be a multiyear recovery in auto retail.
I'll now turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Mike Short.
Thank you Mike.
And good morning ladies and gentlemen.
For the fourth quarter we reported adjusted net income from continuing operations of $71 million or $0.51 per share versus $68 million dollars or $0.45 per share during the fourth quarter of 2010 a 13% improvement on a per share basis.
Our fourth quarter results for this year exclude $1.4 million which is $0.01 per share of debt refinancing costs.
There were no adjustments to net income in the prior-year period.
Adjustments to net income are included in the reconciliations provided in our press release.
Last quarter we indicated that we expected to receive the remaining incentives under the Premium Luxury program during the fourth quarter.
Gross profit was favorably impacted by $2 million this quarter due to these incentives.
This compares to gross profit of $13 million from incentives recognized in the fourth quarter of 2010.
In the fourth quarter revenue increased $432 million or 13% compared to the prior year and gross profit improved by $35 million or 6%.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross profit was 71.3% for the quarter which represents an 80-basis-point improvement compared to the year-ago period.
Excluding the benefit from the additional incentives in both quarters SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross profit improved by 220 basis points.
In December we entered into a new 5-year unsecured credit agreement with a $500 million term loan facility and a $1.2 billion revolving credit facility.
This refinancing extended our debt maturities lowered our borrowing costs and increased our available liquidity better aligning capacity with our growing EBITDA in a rising SAAR environment.
In the new facility the maximum leverage ratio increased from 3.25x to 3.75x and the maximum capitalization ratio increased from 60% to 65%.
We also decreased the pricing from LIBOR plus 225 basis points to LIBOR plus 175 basis points.
We believe that the favorable refinancing terms reflect the market's confidence in AutoNation's operating strength disciplined financial management and solid cash flow generation.
Returning to fourth quarter results net new vehicle floorplan continue to be a benefit for the quarter.
It was a benefit of $6 million an improvement of $3.2 million from the fourth quarter of 2010 primarily due to lower credit spreads compared to the year-ago period.
Floorplan debt was approximately $1.9 billion at quarter end an increase of approximately $388 million from September 30 2011 in-line with inventory levels.
Nonvehicle interest expense was $17.4 million for the quarter an increase of $1.1 million compared to the $16.3 million we recorded in the fourth quarter of 2010 due to higher debt levels.
During the quarter we borrowed $195 million under our revolving credit facility resulting in $495 million of outstanding borrowings under the facility at the end of December.
Our fourth quarter nonvehicle debt balance was $1.6 billion an increase of $298 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
The provision for income tax in the quarter was $43 million or 38%.
From October 1 2011 through January 25 2012 we repurchased 9.8 million shares for $339.9 million at an average price of $34.67 per share.
For the full year 2011 we repurchased 17.1 million shares for $583.4 million at an average price of $34.14 per share.
Today we announced that our board authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $250 million of AutoNation common stock.
AutoNation has $278 million remaining in board authorization for share repurchase.
As of January 25 there were approximately 132 million shares outstanding.
Capital expenditures were $45 million for the quarter and $144 million for the full year 2011.
For 2012 we expect CapEx to be approximately $145 million.
Capital expenditures are on an accrual basis excluding operating lease buyouts and related asset sales.
We remain within the limits of our financial covenants.
Our leverage ratio at December 31 was 2.59x or 2.34x on a net debt basis including used floorplan availability compared to the limit of 3.75x.
Our quarter-end cash balance was $87 million which combined with our additional borrowing capacity resulted in a total liquidity of approximately $810 million at the end of December.
This provides us with substantial financial flexibility in a rising SAAR environment.
Our cash flow generation combined with our strong balance sheet and disciplined cost structure position the company to continue to benefit from the improving SAAR and to maximize the value of the company and shareholder returns.
Now let me turn you over to our President and Chief Operating Officer Mike Maroone.
Thanks Mike and good morning.
In addition to delivering the best ever EPS in the company's history for both a quarter and a full year I'm pleased to report that for the fourth quarter and the full year AutoNation achieved solid increases in both new and used unit volume revenue growth across all areas of our business and double-digit gross profit growth for new vehicles and finance and insurance.
In addition we delivered a solid operating margin of 3.9% for the quarter and 4.1% for the full year illustrating the resiliency of our business model and our ability to navigate changes in the marketplace.
Fourth quarter total segment income of $133 million grew 8% or $10 million compared to the period a year ago with increases across all 3 segments.
A $44 million Domestic segment income increased $8 million or 21%; import segment income of $53 million grew $7 million or 15%; while Luxury segment income of $70 million grew by $4 million or 6%.
As I continue my comments will be on a same-store basis compared to the quarter a year ago unless noted otherwise.
In the quarter AutoNation delivered 59 000 new vehicles on a same-store basis an increase of 10% comparing favorably to industry retail sales which were up 7% according to CNW Research.
On a total-store basis we recognized increases across all 3 segments with Domestic new unit sales up 21% Premium Luxury in new unit sales up 28% and imports up 3% as supply continues to rebuild.
Relative to geography Texas was exceptionally strong in the quarter and our Florida and California markets showed solid improvement.
At $2 billion new vehicle revenue increased $257 million or 14% with revenue increases across all 3 segments driven by increased volume.
Revenue per vehicle retailed was up $1200 or 4% to $34 700.
Gross profit for new vehicle retailed improved $54 or 2% compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 excluding the benefit of -- from the additional performance-based manufacture incentives in both quarters gross profit per new vehicle retailed improved $267 or 12% on a same-store basis.
We attribute our progress in improving new vehicle PVRs to the use of our proprietary pricing tool and tight supply in some import brands.
Our ongoing goal is to increase market share while maintaining or expanding margins compared to predisruption levels.
New vehicle gross profit as a percentage of revenue in the quarter was 7.1% off 10 basis points.
Excluding the benefit from the incentives in both quarters new vehicle gross profit as a percent of revenue improved 60 basis points on a same-store basis.
At December 31 new vehicle day supply was 50 days or 44 000 units compared to 63 days or 48 500 units a year earlier.
Looking ahead our new vehicle inventory is in great shape and we intend to buy aggressively for the spring selling season.
Today we are pleased with the inventory levels for our Domestic and Premium Luxury segments.
For Imports Nissan is in very good shape.
We expect our Toyota inventory to be closer to normalized by the end of the current quarter and our Honda inventory will be slower to rebuild as they were more impacted by the Thai flooding.
Turning to used vehicles AutoNation retailed 41 000 used vehicles on a same-store basis in the quarter up 5% compared to a year ago.
Same-store retail used vehicle revenue was $740 million increased $54 million or 8% year-over-year.
Revenue per used vehicle retailed of $17 950 was up 2% as industry used vehicle prices remained strong in the quarter due to consumer demand and tight inventory availability.
Same-store retail used vehicle gross profit of $61 million was in-line with the period a year ago and gross profit per used vehicle retailed at $1487 was down $78 or 5%.
Effective with the fourth quarter we changed our used day supply calculation to better reflect our operating metrics and practices.
This includes a shift from dollar day supply to unit day supply.
Using the new calculation on December 31 our used vehicle day supply was 31 days compared to 34 days a year ago and 30 days at September 30.
Our Investor Relations teams will be available after the call to discuss the methodology changes in more detail.
Added into the spring selling season our used vehicle inventory is in good shape relative to both supply and mix.
Next parts service and collision where same-store revenue of $566 million increased $6 million or 1% compared to the quarter a year ago and $193 million customer pay revenue was up $9 million or 5% marking the sixth consecutive quarter of year-over-year increases.
We also saw a strong lift in internal driven by volume and a 3% increase in collision revenue.
Warranty revenue declined 17% attributable in part to the decline in the recall activity compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
In 2010 there was a surge in recall activity in the U.S.
with the highest levels since 2004.
Pure units in operation over the past several years along with improved vehicle quality are also factors in the reduction in the warranty revenue.
Gross profit of $235 million declined $7 million or 3% compared to the quarter a year ago.
Customer pay gross profit grew 2% up for the sixth consecutive quarter year-over-year.
A decline in warranty gross profit more than offset gross profit gains in other areas including internal and collision.
Finance and insurance total gross profit in the quarter was $122 million an increase of $15 million or 14% compared to a year ago.
Same-store gross profit per vehicle retailed was $1223 per vehicle up $63 or 5% in the quarter.
For the full year same store F&amp;I gross profit per vehicle retailed was $1204 up $61 or 5%.
This is a full year record and marks the first full year result above $1200.
We continue to be very pleased with our industry-leading results in finance and insurance.
Crisp execution of our best practice processes drove both improved rate and product commissions.
We experienced solid product penetration and our strong preferred lender network for prime nonprime and subprime continues to be a benefit.
We added nonprime and subprime lenders to our network during Q4 a further indication of the continued healthy credit environment.
At December 31 our store portfolio numbered 215 stores and 258 franchises represented 32 brands in 15 states.
In the quarter we opened Power FIAT in North Phoenix.
We came into the year with an aggressive plan to build new facilities and undertake several major facility renovations.
In the fourth quarter we completed 3 more significant ground-up construction projects for BMW Tucson Champion Toyota Gulf Freeway and Champion Honda in Corpus Christi.
We also completed the extensive renovation and expansion of another 6 stores in the quarter.
Looking ahead we will continue to invest in our facilities and seek acquisition opportunities that meet our market brand and a return on investment criteria.
Before I close my remarks I'd like to share that David Koehler has been appointed Senior Vice President of Variable Operations with responsibility for new and used vehicle operations and finance and insurance.
Prior to this David served as a Market President in our Florida region.
Additionally Alan McLaren has joined the company as Senior Vice President of Customer Care responsible for parts service and collision.
Prior to this Alan served as a Senior Executive with Mercedes-Benz U.S.A.
This marks a change to the reporting structure in our operations team.
For some time all store operations reported to me through a senior -- through a single Senior Executive dividing the structure distinctly between sales and service that provides increased expertise and focus for each area.
I'll also note that to advance the customer experience post vehicle acquisition and grow customer retention parts service and collision will now be known as Customer Care at AutoNation.
We are pleased to expand our operations teams with the addition of these 2 seasoned automotive executives who both have a proven track record of driving results.
In closing the fourth quarter was a record-breaking EPS performance at AutoNation.
I want to thank each of our Associates who share our passion for delighting customers and delivering results.
With that I'll turn it over to Mike Jackson.
Thanks Mike.
Over the next several years we will continue to see all the OEMs accelerate the new product launches with an industry average of over 40 launches per year through 2015.
The industry replacement each year has historically averaged about 15%.
This will increase to an average of 25% through 2015.
This along with an improving economy a genuine replacement need great financing will drive new vehicle sales back to 16 million units.
As we look at 2012 we believe that the improvement in new vehicle sales will continue.
Our planning assumption for 2012 industry new vehicle unit sales is 14 million units which would be a 10% improvement over 2011.
We will now take questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is coming from Rick Nelson of Stephens.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to ask you Mike about the 14 million-unit SAAR forecast what you're assuming about incentives I guess particularly from Toyota and Honda as their inventories normalize and do you think the domestics follow suit and...
Rick I do not see any dramatic changes in the incentive gain.
There could be some moves here and there maybe the Japanese do something as their product availability comes online.
But I really don't think that's the game today that I see in the marketplace.
I can't describe to you how much closer production is aligned with consumers than 5 years ago and both in quantity type and configuration and therefore will you have to use extreme incentives to bridge the gap between what the consumer wants and what's been produced has been narrowed dramatically.
Now there will always be tactical incentives but I do not see the disconnect that existed in the past.
Also I believe the Japanese will regain share simply by having further improvement in availability and they have a pretty good product cadence also to help them.
So I see the share shaking up probably a 45-45 split between the Asians and Detroit and with the Europeans taking the balance.
And going forward I don't see massive shares achieved through massive incentive programs.
I really believe those days are behind us.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to ask you about the margin also on the new car that grossed in the 2450 area.
As inventories more fully recover do you think we'd backtrack back to the first quarter where we were at 2200 a unit where do you see the growth shaking up? Rick it's Mike Maroone.
We are optimistic about our ability to manage margins.
Obviously it's subject to supply.
Our goal is to take market share while maintaining or improving our margins.
If you take out the onetime manufacture incentives from a year ago we were up $267 in the quarter.
All year we have improved margins in the Domestic and Premium Luxury in addition to the Imports.
So the margin expansion was not just driven by the Import segment.
So we think there's opportunity there but of course supply is also a driver.
Research Division</strong> Now if I could ask a final question on the SG&amp;A.
To growth how many 1.3%.
I went back it looks like that's the lowest fourth quarter level we've seen since '04.
But obviously unit volumes were a lot heavier for the industry and I guess adjusted for some of the incentives you got a year ago the big improvement it was bigger.
Where do you see SG&amp;A as we're in this recovery mode? Rick this is Mike Short.
As you know this has been a focus item for the company for as long as AutoNation has been in existence.
We're very focused on managing our net to gross and leveraging our cost structure.
We got a lot of initiatives in place to continue to do that over time.
We hold out there as the brass ring the fact that we were below 70% as our historic low SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross and we intend to get back there and we're working hard to do it.
And you're correct to point out that we are near record highs despite the fact that we are at still a much lower SAAR level and I think that points to the level of productivity improvement that we've had organizationally during the downturn and it's a discipline we plan on staying on.
The next question is coming from Ravi Shanker of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Another margin question but this time on used in parts and services.
I think you said in 3Q that the high acquisition costs ahead of the inventory shortage got a floor to your margins there.
The sound [ph] that's below the 4Q as well and also on parts and services I think I can arguably say that warranty business is probably at a normalized level now versus an elevated level a couple of years ago.
Does that mean that parts and services margins are probably going to be in this 41% 42% range? It's Mike Maroone.
First on the used car side.
You're correct in what you said.
The real pressure on used-car margins for us came out of the certified preowned where we had some margin compression in both the Domestic Import and Premium Luxury.
We have reduced the size of our inventory.
We're more focused to stay in that low 30-day supply and believe that there's some opportunity going forward in improving our used-car margins.
And the service and parts side or what we know call Customer Care we also agreed that the warranty should be stabilized at this point subject to any major recall activity.
Our margin compression there is really our aggressiveness in going after the tire business and other businesses that we haven't been as deep in before.
We've got a lot of initiatives in the company to penetrate the lower margin business that we believe long term is a key element in our customer retention strategy.
Research Division</strong> Is there any level of incremental margin for those businesses i.e.
as you mature in those business and grow them do those margins improve as well? I think they've got opportunity to grow.
At this point in time we want to earn the customers' business.
The tire business especially has always been a lower-margin business but I think there's other segments that we can penetrate in with the what we call a good better best strategy and we're actively pursuing those.
So I think there is some incremental margin opportunity going forward but at this point it's a share of a garage issue in attempting to have our customers return to us for all services not just the select ones.
Research Division</strong> And sticking with you can you give us an update on the VVO initiative? The VVO initiative? We now have 27 of those stores open and they're still maturing.
We're still learning and we're very optimistic.
We believe that it's allowed us to expand our offerings to customers giving customers much better choice in -- with less-expensive vehicles.
And we would anticipate opening more of those as the year goes along.
It's very linked to supply so as long as the new vehicle markets stay strong we believe we'll have the inventory to make those offerings to customers.
So we feel very good about that business.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And just finally a question for Mike Jackson.
I think a couple of your large dealer peers have been on a bit of a dare with new acquisitions.
Can you just comment on what you're seeing in the space and if you're going to go down that path as well? We are looking in our existing footprint.
We're looking for brands that we don't have in given markets.
We've made some acquisitions big Toyota stores we've had some greenfield sites from Audi to FIAT.
We're still very disciplined on price and we're always looking at the arbitrage between share repurchase and doing an acquisition with the risk premium on the acquisition.
So my experience in these things is you never know you never know.
So we have no fixed target on acquisition or share repurchase.
The only annual commitment we have on capital was to the existing stores an aggressive investment in existing stores to make sure they're all top-flight; an ongoing commitment to invest in technology that we always are state-of-the-art; and then we really look at acquisitions and share repurchase opportunistically.
So I really can't tell you how the year is going to unfold.
Research Division</strong> On that point have you given a CapEx forecast for 2012? Yes we called that $145 million.
The next question is coming from John Murphy Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> First question as we think about the industry Mike Jackson you've sort of highlighted there being a lot of rationalization on the automaker side in particular on inventory but there's also been a lot of rationalization in the last 4 or 5 years on the dealership counts and we've declined by almost 5 000 dealers over the last 5 years.
So just curious are you seeing any -- the benefit to that consolidation yet and do you think those benefits may increase quite dramatically as the SAAR increases as well? Ah John first and foremost thank you for your work on the manufacturer's product cadence.
It's the best in the industry.
It's a must-read for us.
Look I think the consolidation that occurred in '08 '09 and '10 particularly the bankruptcy with the Domestics was a mischance.
It could've been far more comprehensive particularly in the major markets.
So I think there is some benefit there but I would not say that it is what it could've been or should have been.
And I still think there is more representation that's needed in the major metro markets.
So There is some benefit but I don't see some inflection point that I would call out and say when the volume moves past this you're going to see some huge payoff from it.
Research Division</strong> Second question just thinking about the share repose it seems like you've gotten a lot more comfortable taking on leverage to buy back shares.
I'm just curious obviously you have lots of room on your net debt-to-EBITDA covenant but just curious as far as the limits on RP  baskets that still exist and if you would be willing really to bump up against the net debt-to-EBITDA leverage covenant to really push the share buybacks given where the shares are right now? John Mike Short here.
Just a couple of things.
First mechanically there is no basket.
So our limits are...
Yes we have an investment-grade covenants.
There's no basket.
And so our -- it's really the leverage ratio that's the governor on it and I think the 2 characteristics I would use to describe the way we think about it is flexibility and being opportunistic.
So in terms of flexibility that's why you saw us go out and do the level of refinancing we did and you can see how much flexibility that new credit facility got for the organization.
And opportunistic is looking at value.
Mike talked about the way we think about capital.
We have and we'll continue to maintain a very strong balance sheet.
We think it's one of the hallmarks of AutoNation and it's a critical strategy for us.
And so within that context we try to redeploy capital in the most value creative way possible.
Research Division</strong> And it would be fair to say at this point given that the level of share buybacks recently you view your shares in the open market as the best return on capital at this point? Yes again it depends on the deal that comes...
And if you're looking backwards absolutely yes.
Yes and that's -- you'll look at that relative to the next acquisition opportunity that comes up.
If there's a golden opportunity that we identify through our business development team then at that point that might become the better use of capital.
But Mike's obviously correct given our track record we see the opportunity to create and believe we have created significant shareholder value through share repurchase over the years.
All the while maintaining excellent liquidity with daily trading volume that's 3.5x our peer group.
We remember the lesson of 2008 and that is that organizations like us do very well to be protected by a strong balance sheet and when the tide turns against you you really want to have that strength there and so we're covetous of that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly it sounds like a small nuance when you change the name of parts and service to Customer Care but actually might be more than just a small nuance.
I mean just curious as you're looking at that is that going to be a whole rebranding effort in your stores in your communication to customers where instead of just being sort of a segment name it really becomes a real branding tool in changing the name? Just curious what kind of studies you've done there and really what kind of benefit that might drive in the new Customer Care segment? John if you look at it's really -- there's really 2 indicators there.
One we changed the structure of the organization and we don't do that lightly but we say these 2 disciplines these 2 opportunities need a singular focus to realize all the potential that's there.
Next we have top talent taking both those responsibilities and I think we have embraced a flag in the name that really says what that division is all about and that is caring for the customer.
So everything that goes behind that has to wait for another day and we will talk about it on another day but as an indicator of seriousness and direction yes.
The next question is coming from Patrick Archambault Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess first on the comment you had about the product cadence you said that that was 1 of 3 reasons for driving growth forward for this year in terms of volume.
Curious what your experience in the past tells you about product cadence and pricing for you guys.
I mean it's obvious that new product will help repricing but in terms of sort of the premium to MSRP or maybe not the premium but lessening maybe the discount to MSRP is it something that we should look to as having a positive gross margin impact for you guys as well? Absolutely Patrick.
You're spot on.
There's no question that new product is a tremendous benefit and a tremendous margin opportunity depending on market acceptance and volume of Premium Luxury how long that opportunity is there can really vary.
But we're really -- it's a combination we're really in a new era here where we have this increased product cadence complying with manufacturing discipline with a focus on producing what the customer actually wants.
So I see the potential for profitable growth at both the retail level and the manufacturer level.
There are still certain manufacturer practices that are inconsistent with that stair-step incentives being one of them.
It's a very destructive incentive program that we would wish would go away.
There's still practices out there that are not in alignment with where today's customers and today's marketplace is.
We work against them so we're not at perfection yet but we're in a dramatically different world with a lot more opportunity.
We are simply not going -- as we make this journey back to 16 million plus units it would be completely wrong to say oh they're just going back to where it was.
That is not the case.
It is a new world with new opportunities.
Very exciting.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And one more on used if I can fit it in.
The ratio the used-to-new ratio went to 70 from a run rate of more or less the high 70s over the last call it looks like the 5 6 quarters.
How should we think about that going forward? Is -- are we reaching a point in the cycle where we're kind of changing seeing a change in the tide between new and used demand and used growth going forward is going to be permanently slow and permanently meaning slower over a sustainable period of time or is this just a temporary issue with inventory acquisition costs how do we think about that? It's Mike Maroone.
I think that there is still lots of opportunity in used.
I think the new vehicle market had obviously shrunk.
The used vehicle market has been more stable.
So now we're seeing recovery in new.
We're projecting more recovery in new.
But I think there's still plenty of opportunity in used.
We were still able to grow our used volume by 5% our revenue by 8%.
Yes supplies are tight.
We are working very hard on alternative supplies doing some very creative online buying.
And I think it's a supply-driven issue but we still see plenty of opportunity in the used vehicle business and it may not be as volatile as the new business but it's -- there's still a lot there and I think we'll continue to work hard to improve our capabilities there.
The next question is coming from Simeon Gutman of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> We talked about F&amp;I Mike had mentioned a few of the drivers.
Can you expand a little and maybe talk if the mix of vehicle's helping and then as we think about returning Japanese supply next year how that factors into the F&amp;I per car? It's Mike Maroone.
First of all we are very pleased with our F&amp;I performance.
It's the first time on a full year basis that we've exceeded $1200.
I think it's a reflection of our ongoing efforts in store operations with training and certifying and continually working on compliance issues so there's a strong tactical effort.
More importantly the lender environment is very favorable for both customers and retailers there's a lot of lenders that have had great experiences with automotive credit and there's certainly some aggressive buying going on.
In our company there's going to be a continued or an even stronger focus on products and we've done a good job on products in the past but specifically on vehicle service contracts and prepaid maintenance more on sending our whole organization to do a better job of linking that customer bringing him back into our Customer Care business.
So I think there's more opportunity there.
I think it's a very good environment and I see it doing nothing but getting better going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a follow-up -- not a follow-up.
I guess talking about the middle of this year where we have an interesting period where we cycle some fantastic grosses from last year.
The volume should be better but how do you -- I guess how did you manage it last year? It was something smoothed out as far as compensating on gross versus volumes? And how do you manage the potential volatility that the business could see because of that event or that dynamic that took place? It's Mike Maroone again.
I think we did a very good job in Q2 and Q3.
We developed a proprietary pricing tool.
And the pricing tool itself doesn't get more gross what it does is it helps your stores have in their mind what is the target on a per-vehicle basis benchmarking a lot of market data.
And I think the tool and the training that goes with it really helped us with our margins.
Certainly as we go back to normalized inventory level the margins will drop some but I think we still have an opportunity to expand margins above a predisruption level and that is clearly our target here.
Supply is a big driver but -- so we have an assumption that there is going to be some real thinking done by the OEMs and that the market will not be heavily oversupplied.
But we think we can do a good job if you take out the onetime manufacturer incentives from Q4 of 2010 and this year take them out of both years our gross is -- we're up $267 a quarter Q4 '11 over Q4 '10.
I don't think we can necessarily maintain that kind of spread but I think we can be very positive.
We are very encouraged to see margin expansion in the Domestic and Premium Luxury not just in the Import segment which gives us a little bit of confidence in our capabilities.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then I guess follow-on to that the pricing analytic tool how are you measuring how much better it's helping gross versus what the business is sort of giving you naturally? Well first of all what we do with that tool is we use 3 of third-party benchmarks before we set our prices.
So we're looking at a number of different sites saying what are vehicles sold in that market.
We then establish a target and what we call a floor price and we measure our stores' performance against those target and floor prices.
I think ultimately the bottom line is is that you want to take market share and we measure market share very carefully well improving your margins.
And I think we're doing a decent job at that but it's an ongoing effort.
The last question is coming  from Mr.
Rod Lache of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Also just a follow-up on used.
It looks like the supply of used vehicles is going to decline quite a bit in 2012 and '13 just because there was such a big a downturn in '08 '09 and '10.
But you're mentioning that you think that used margins can continue to rise and I'm just trying to just square the various issues.
Are you thinking that there's very little impact on you guys from the shifting kind of demographics in the used market or on your comps? You mentioned some alternative inventory sources that becoming -- is there enough momentum there to offset it? Can you give us any color on how big a factor that's been for you? Well this is -- it's Mike Maroone.
There's no question that supply is very tight.
What we know is that we don't believe that we want to be a big auction buyer and bid against several hundred other people on the same car.
So our focus is twofold: one is it's doing a better job in store so we measure our stores' ability to generate appraisals and what appraisals they win it's a key metric for us in our operating strategy.
So we call it buying at the door.
We want to acquire more vehicles at the door.
It obviously creates a transaction gives us a number of margin and revenue opportunities.
But at the same time we don't want to limit ourselves there because we do believe that the market is so much larger and has so much more potential.
So we are doing online work with a number of different -- we're doing some acquisition with eBay so with Edmunds with Autobytel using some online opportunities to get out and buy some cars.
And there are early efforts but we're very optimistic about our capability of buying cars online and it's a very customer-friendly process as well.
So we really look at those 2 as opportunities and we believe that the more inventory we can acquire at the right price the more sales opportunity we have and I think it's got an opportunity to pay off going forward.
Research Division</strong> Do you have any statistics you could share on the percentage you source nowadays from auctions versus where it used to be just to kind of for us to be able to gauge the success you're having there.
And just also on the retail side I'm wondering are you seeing any changes in the advanced rates that banks are offering on the used cars side of the market just given how much used car prices have risen? Let me start with the auction first.
I don't have a ready stat at my hands but I will tell you that most of our auction buying is certified preowned units that are bought online.
It's a unique opportunity to keep our people in the stores and buy specific products that we need to fill out our CPO footprint.
Beyond the CPO footprint we buy very little at auctions.
Research Division</strong> Do you have any thoughts on the financing market for used? The financing market is -- first of all the financing environment is very healthy right now.
I can't tell you the advanced rates are way up but what I can tell you is the lenders that really want that business are looking at both the advanced rate and the quality of customer.
And we've got plenty of lender opportunities and financing doesn't seem to be anything that can hold back that business at this point.
Thank you everyone for joining us today.
This will conclude today's conference.
All parties may disconnect at this time.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to AutoNation's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I will turn the call over to Mrs.
Cheryl Scully Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations for AutoNation.
Ma'am you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to AutoNation's First Quarter 2012 Conference Call and Webcast.
Leading our call today will be Mike Jackson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mike Maroone our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Short our Chief Financial Officer.
Following their remarks we will open up the call for questions.
Kate Keyser-Pearlman and I will also be available via phone following the call to address any additional questions that you may have.
Before we begin let me read our brief statement regarding forward-looking comments and the use of non-GAAP financial measures.
Certain statements and information on this call will constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve risks which may cause the actual results or performance to differ materially from expectations.
Additional discussions of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are contained in our SEC filings.
Certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules may be discussed on this call.
Reconciliations are available on our Investor Relations website at investors.autonation.com under Financials.
And now I'll turn the call over to AutoNation's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mike Jackson.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
Today we reported an all-time record quarterly earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.56 for the first quarter a 22% increase as compared to $0.46 for the same period in the prior year.
First quarter 2012 revenue totaled $3.7 billion compared to $3.3 billion in the year-ago period an increase of 10% driven primarily by stronger retail new vehicle unit sales.
In the first quarter total U.S.
industry new vehicle retail sales increased 7% based on CNW Research data.
In comparison during the same period AutoNation's new vehicle unit sales increased 10% or 8% on a same-store basis.
In the first quarter we repurchased 11.7 million shares or 9% of the shares outstanding as of December 31 2011 for $405 million at an average price per share of $34.72.
Since the year I arrived in 1999 we have bought back over 400 million shares for $7 billion at an average price of under $17 per share.
In the first quarter we saw an industry selling rate of 14.5 million units the best quarterly selling rate since the first quarter of 2008.
As we look at the rest of 2012 we believe that the improvement in new vehicle sales will continue.
And we've increased our planning assumption for 2012 industry new vehicle sales to mid-14 million units.
Recovery is driven by replacement demand as the age of the fleet on the road has now increased to almost 11 years old.
Also manufacturers have stepped up the pace of new models.
Finally the credit environment is very strong with low interest rates and ample credit availability aimed for customers with less-than-stellar credit.
Even with the rising fuel prices we continue see a solid recovery for both trucks and cars.
In the past the consumer had sacrificed size or type of vehicle that they really desired to get better fuel economy.
Today it's a win-win as consumers get exactly the vehicle they want with improved fuel efficiency.
AutoNation is well positioned to capitalize on recovery with an optimal brand to market mix and a disciplined cost structure.
We continue to demonstrate our ability to drive strong shareholder returns during the multi-year recovery in auto retail.
I now turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Mike Short.
Thank you Mike and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
For the first quarter we reported net income from continuing operations of $74 million or $0.56 per share versus $70 million or $0.46 per share during the first quarter of 2011 a 22% improvement on a per-share basis.
There were no adjustments to net income in either period.
In the first quarter revenue increased $346 million or 10% compared to the prior year and gross profit improved by $37 million or 6%.
In the first quarter of 2011 gross profit was favorably impacted by $4.6 million related to additional incentives under our Premium Luxury program.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross profit was 71.8% for the quarter which represents a 20-basis-point improvement compared to a year ago period.
Excluding the benefit from the additional incentives in the first quarter of 2011 SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross profit improved by a more comparable 80 basis points versus the prior period.
On February 1 we issued $350 million in senior unsecured notes at 5.5% which are scheduled to mature in 2020.
We were able to capture attractive long-term financing rates at that time reflecting the market's view of AutoNation's consistent operating results and strong cash flow generation.
Our percentage of fixed rate non-vehicle debt has now increased to 53% from 40% at December 2011 or looking back over a longer time horizon from 33% at March 31 2010.
Additionally on April 16 we redeemed $14.7 million of 7% senior notes at par which were scheduled to mature in 2014.
Returning to first quarter results net new vehicle floorplan was a benefit of $6.8 million an improvement of $2.1 million from the first quarter of 2011 primarily due to higher floorplan assistance driven by increased vehicle sales compared to the prior year period.
Floorplan debt was approximately $2 billion at quarter end an increase of approximately $118 million from December 31 2011 in line with inventory levels.
Non-vehicle interest expense was $20.5 million for the quarter an increase of $4.2 million compared to the $16.3 million we reported in the first quarter of 2011 due to higher debt levels and a shift towards longer-term fixed-rate debt.
We had $400 million of outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility at the end of March.
On March 31 our total non-vehicle debt balance was $1.9 billion an increase of $582 million compared to March 31 2011.
The provision for income tax in the quarter was $46 million or 38.5%.
From January 1 2012 through April 24 2012 we repurchased 13.8 million shares for $476.3 million at an average price of $34.55 per share.
On March 23 we announced that our board authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $250 million of AutoNation common stock.
AutoNation has $174 million remaining in that board authorization for share repurchase.
As of April 24 there were approximately 122 million shares outstanding.
That does not include the dilutive impact of stock options which was 2 million shares in the first quarter of 2012.
AutoNation will continue to manage within the limits of our financial covenants.
Our leverage ratio at March 31 was 2.98x or 2.75x on a net debt basis including used floorplan availability compared to our covenant limit of 3.75x.
Capital expenditures were $18 million for the quarter.
We continue to expect CapEx to be approximately $145 million for the year.
Capital expenditures are on an accrual basis excluding operating lease buyouts and related asset sales.
Our quarter-end cash balance was $76 million which combined with our additional borrowing capacity resulted in a total liquidity of approximately $645 million at the end of March.
This provides us with financial flexibility as the SAAR increases.
AutoNation will continue leverage our solid cash flow generation and best-in-class operating structure to generate strong company and shareholder returns.
Now let me turn you over to our President and Chief Operating Officer Mike Maroone.
Thanks Mike and good morning.
2012 is off to a great start for the industry and for AutoNation.
The recovery in auto retail is gaining momentum.
Contributing factors include increased consumer confidence an improved credit environment restoration of import inventories high consumer replacement demand with the average age of vehicles on the road at 11 years and exciting new fuel-efficient products rolling out at an incredible pace.
In this improving environment AutoNation delivered all-time record EPS for the second consecutive quarter as well as strong growth in revenue and gross profit across all sectors of our business: new vehicles used vehicles parts service and collision which we now refer to as customer care and finance and insurance.
We also delivered a very solid 4.1 operating margin.
In the first quarter Domestic segment income increased $7 million or 16% to $50 million compared to the period a year ago.
Import segment income of $62 million increased $7 million a 13% increase.
And the Premium Luxury segment increased by 2% to $59 million.
As I continue my comments will be on a same-store basis.
In the quarter AutoNation retailed 60 300 new vehicles on a same-store basis with growth across all 3 segments.
This represents an increase of 4 600 units or 8% compared to the period a year ago slightly ahead of industry retail sales which were up 7% according to CNW Research.
Relative to geography it was a solid quarter in most of the markets where we operate with Texas and Colorado both showing growth in the high teens.
And on a very positive note California and Florida continue to show good year-over-year improvement.
New vehicle revenue increased $173 million or 10% to $2 billion with revenue increases across all 3 segments driven by increased volume.
Revenue per vehicle retailed was $32 500 up slightly compared to a year ago.
Gross profit per new vehicle retailed of $2 183 declined 3% or $66 compared to the quarter a year ago.
However excluding the benefit from the additional performance-based manufacturer incentives in the quarter a year ago gross profit per new vehicle retailed improved $16 or 1% on a same-store basis.
Looking forward we will be lapping a tough comparison in the second quarter this year as our new margins in the second quarter of 2011 benefited from tight supply immediately following the earthquake and tsunami in Japan.
New vehicle gross profit as a percent of revenue in the quarter was 6.7% up 30 basis points compared to a year ago and essentially flat excluding the benefit from the incentives the prior year quarter.
We were very pleased with our new vehicle inventory at the end of the quarter.
At March 31 new vehicle days supply was 54 days or 47 500 units compared to 50 days or 41 000 units a year ago.
Next AutoNation retailed 45 500 used vehicles on a same-store basis in the quarter an increase of 3 400 units or 8% compared to a year ago with growth across all 3 segments.
Same-store retail used vehicle revenue of $789 million increased $62 million or 8% year-over-year.
Revenue per used vehicle retailed of $17 350 was relatively flat with the prior year period although still strong due to continued tight industry supply and high demand at retail.
At 77 million same-store retail used vehicle gross profit increased 3 million or 5% year-over-year.
Gross profit per used vehicle retailed of $1 697 was down $56 or 3%.
Our used vehicle days supply was tight at 29 days on March 31 compared to 33 days a year ago.
In the quarter we drove a 20% increase in appraisals and a 17% increase in trade-ins acquired compared to the period a year ago with a close ratio of 47% on vehicles appraised.
Winning trades is even more important in a tight supply environment and we're pleased with our performance and have room for improvement.
Turning to parts service and collision which we now call Customer Care.
Same-store revenue of $593 million increased $23 million or 4% compared to the quarter a year ago.
And $199 million customer pay revenue was up $12 million or 7% representing the largest year-over-year dollar and percentage change increase in recent years.
This also marks the seventh consecutive quarter of year-over-year increases in customer pay revenue.
We attribute this to our Customer Care sales strategy that emphasizes retailing on the service drive including tire sales and maintenance which also drive retention.
Increased vehicle sales drove improvement in internal of 17% year-over-year.
The growth in customer pay in internal more than offset a decline of 9% in warranty revenue.
And I'm glad to report that the warranty decline was narrowed substantially year-over-year and warranty revenue was up sequentially.
Customer Care gross profit of $247 million increased $3 million or 1% compared to the quarter a year ago.
Customer pay gross profit grew 2% up for the seventh consecutive quarter year-over-year.
And increases in internal gross more than offset a decline in warranty gross.
We continue to perform well in finance and insurance.
In the quarter total gross profit was $128 million an increase of $18 million or 16% compared to a year ago.
Same-store gross profit per vehicle retailed was up $81 or 7% in the quarter to $1 213 per vehicle.
Our efforts here continue to be focused on providing full transparency to customers while providing value-added products that can help drive long-term customer retention.
As of March 31 our store portfolio numbered 215 stores 260 franchises representing 32 brands and 15 states.
In the quarter we were awarded Chrysler and Jeep franchises that were added our Dodge store in Pembroke Pines Florida.
I'll also note that we were awarded an add point for MINI in Valencia California which we anticipate opening by year end.
Our industry relations and corporate development teams continue to actively pursue opportunities that meet our market brand and return on investment criteria.
Before I close I'd like to add that Greg Ravelle has joined AutoNation as Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer.
Greg comes to us from Expedia where he served as Vice President and General Manager of Worldwide Online Marketing.
A key focus for Greg is to accelerate our efforts to expand our capabilities on the digital front.
We welcome Greg and are excited to add an executive of his caliber to our team.
In closing we are committed to optimizing our performance in this rapidly improving environment and are very grateful to our 20 000 associates who are instrumental in delivering an excellent quarter.
With that I'll turn it over to Mike Jackson.
Thanks Mike.
During the first quarter we saw strong improvement in auto industry sales as consumers enjoyed a great array of choices and a strong credit environment.
We believe the accelerated product launches replacement demand and robust consumer credit will continue to support our strong sales environment even with $4 a gallon.
Planning assumptions for 2012 industry new vehicle unit sales is mid-14 million units which will be approximately a 13% improvement over 2011.
With that we'd very much like to take your questions.
First question please.
Will be coming from John Murphy Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just first question I mean there's been a lot of conjecture over whether being a real support and inducing the SAAR in the first quarter upwards.
I'm just curious what you guys really think about that or if you think it was really a nonfactor and the key driver here is that we're seeing some release and pent-up demand.
Well I think -- this is Mike Jackson.
I think the underlying strength of the recovery is clearly there.
We went into the year with a forecast of $14 million for the full year on the high range of many of the forecast out there.
And we had a caution or a yellow around the issue of fuel prices where we clearly thought we'd see $4 a gallon and we viewed that as a risk to sales.
And it's just turned out that without increased incentives $4 a gallon if anything is assisting sales not hurting sales.
And we really see dramatic change from 5 years ago in '08.
We see overall a 20% improvement in fuel efficiency compared to the end of '07 going into '08.
And the consumer we're not asking them to make a trade-off between size and performance.
They can have what they currently have and get a significant increase in fuel efficiency.
And that's been done with the traditional drive train with relatively reasonable incremental cost with turbocharging direct injection and 7 8 9 speed automatic transmissions.
But looking at the quarter in and of itself retail was up a solid 7%.
There was an emphasis on the replacement of fleet plus 19 though that will not continue for the full year.
But we see it at mid-14.
Research Division</strong> I think we've also heard that Chrysler is reasonably active in the market with dealer incentives.
It sounds like they're stair-step programs.
I'm just curious if one if those programs had any impact in the quarter and two if you're seeing any other automakers out there sort of mimicking these programs with new stair-step or buying rebate programs to the dealers directly.
John it's Mike Maroone.
There continues to be a number of stair-step programs out there the targets vary greatly.
Some are quite reasonable.
Some are quite extraordinary.
It certainly has an impact on every quarter.
I don't know that this quarter was much different.
But they are impacted and it's across a number of different manufacturers.
And John Mike Short.
The reason we called out the premium luxury incentives in the prior period was because they were kind of a catch-up payment which we qualified for in the prior -- in that quarter and that's why we recognize them.
So sort of an aberration as opposed to ongoing incentives.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a follow-up on that Mike Maroone those programs are not necessarily an acceleration or incremental to what we saw late last year.
Are they more of a continuation? Or are they a step-up? I'm just trying to understand.
John I think there's more manufacturers involved in them but they vary greatly from quarter to quarter.
We saw strong stair-step programs in Q1 of 2011 saw them again in 2012.
We also saw a lot at year end.
So each of the quarter I'd say that our margins going forward I think will be similar to our Q1 margins although I think they'll vary some by quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just lastly I mean you showed a sort of a willingness to lever up a little bit certainly not much but a little bit to buy back shares in the quarter and then what you've done so far in April.
And I'm just curious if you were willing to go further on that and it looks like you have plenty of room on your covenants I mean would you get to something that's closer to that 3.7x net debt to EBITDA? I mean do you feel like that would be something that you'd be willing to do? Or as we just look at the cash flow generation we should expect a lot of the cash flow generation should be allocated to share buybacks going forward.
Just trying to figure out how aggressive that you might get on the share buyback program given where the stock is right now.
Yes.
John it's Mike Short.
We've I think demonstrated over the last number of years that we are good stewards of the balance sheet.
And we will take prudent opportunistic investments in share repurchase using the balance sheet where appropriate but certainly not running up near the 3.75x leverage level.
Research Division</strong> But when you can borrow at 5.5% it seems like it makes sense all day long.
Yes.
I certainly don't want to get too close to covenant levels.
But given the financing that's available now and our view on the value of the stock it has been a good investment for us here over the last quarter or 2.
The next question is coming from Rick Nelson of Stephens.
Research Division</strong> I have a question about unit growth that was reported for the quarter 8% same-store.
With the March sales released I think you reported 13% unit growth for the quarter.
And I'm curious what the difference is.
You mentioned some add points this morning maybe that's it.
And I know there's some differences in accounting but I'd like some clarity.
Rick this is Mike Jackson.
Our monthly report is what we've reported to the manufacturers.
So we are aligned with the manufacturers' reporting calendar for that.
And this report of course is GAAP and I think there was the 3-day difference this quarter 3 additional days in the manufacturer calendar compared to the GAAP calendar.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Also I'd like to follow up on John's question about potential pull forward into the first quarter.
Any commentary on April sales would be helpful.
Well what's nice about us compared to everybody else is we do report every month.
And next Wednesday we will report in detail the results for April.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Subprime finance availability I know it's been a big driver to this recovery.
But subprime I guess specifically I'm interested in how that is growing maybe as a proportion of your customer base or sales and where you see the potential for that category? Where are we now versus a few years ago when subprime was a big driver? Rick it's Mike Maroone.
The subprime financing environment has been good for several quarters right now.
So we're not seeing huge growth there.
If you compare it back to '08 and '09 certainly it's a very different market.
But subprime was a strong part of the business in 2011 to continue down to the first quarter of 2012.
And I think it'll continue to be strong.
I don't think it's a huge driver of the business in comparison to most recent quarters.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And any -- finally any updates on the Shared Service Center would be helpful.
I think there was one more region you were working on and maybe some of the savings that you're achieving with your SG&amp;A to gross was the lowest in the sector.
Rick this is Mike Short.
You're right we are finishing probably about halfway through the rollout of the Florida region which is the last region to go into the extended mode of the Shared Service Center.
That will complete that platform execution.
And we think that there will be additional initiatives that we lay on top of that going forward.
Those are yet to be identified and announced.
But certainly we view this as having completed the foundation of the SSC and now we'll be adding additional functionality and capabilities to it.
And that is a key part of how we have achieved the level of efficiencies that we have and it's a key part of that strategy going forward.
The next question is coming from Simeon Gutman of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Mike I'm curious if you can talk I guess on the brand side.
We're starting to see some subtle shifts most of which are probably expected with the Domestics taking a little step back and the J3 picking back up.
I'm curious if you can give some thoughts on that.
Well I think everybody should expect the Japanese to post very good numbers for the next 6 months and to take a lot of the share that they give back.
I think that's fully to be expected.
We had an extraordinary circumstance in the marketplace last year starting in April.
But by mid-May there were dramatic shortages on Japanese products that really Nissan got a resolve first I would say in the fourth quarter.
First quarter Toyota got a resolve and it looks like Honda will have a resolve in the second quarter.
So it was really for an extended period.
And they have a lot of new product offerings and launches coming with that.
So there will be some rebalancing with the Japanese brands on share over the next 6 months.
And they have really on the volume side very easy comps that they will beat.
But I have to tell you the renaissance with the Domestics is across the board.
It strong.
It's real.
And those who simply say that Domestics have lost their stride during this period when the Japanese now have full availability again I think are missing the story.
This is a recovery that is for all brands European Domestic Japanese across the board everybody has exciting product from small cars through trucks.
And yes Japanese will do very well in the next 6 months no doubt.
So I would not say it's totally at the expense of the Domestics.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And to your point that there will be some rebalancing there wasn't just an early sort of catch-up from some pent-up demand.
Maybe there were some people waiting for the inventory to come back.
And exactly to your point it feels like the Domestics are stronger.
So does the J3 continue to take back at an accelerating rate? Or does that kind of cool off here after this initial period? I think the Domestics will still show positive sales and -- but the Asians will be even stronger and take back share.
It's one of the reasons why I've moved my forecast to mid-14.
If the first quarter average 14.5 then you look at the fact that we were supply restricted for a major manufacturing base for 8 or 9 months last year and I want to comp against that.
If you keep your number in the high 13 if not 14 then you're really forecasting a significant downturn for the rest of the year to get the year to average 14.
I don't really see a circumstance of that happening.
So we're very comfortable in the mid-14.
You're absolutely right.
We expect the Japanese to put up very good numbers over the next -- the balance of this year but the Domestics are for real.
And imagine the numbers the 14.5 that was averaged in the first quarter was in the face of $4 a gallon gasoline and no net increase in incentives to speak of.
Yet how incentives are used and whether they're stair-step or not you've got a lot of moving pieces there but if you net it all out there was no major incentive move in the first quarter of this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a question on -- for Mike Short on the operating leverage and the flow-through which was solid in the quarter.
I guess compared to some other ones it may not have been as strong.
Curious if there was anything maybe acquisition related that was in there that held it back.
And then with regard to the SSC from a timing standpoint is there anything to think about as far as a step function of improvement when some of those extensions start to fall in place? So just one thing Simeon when you're looking at that SG&amp;A leverage do make sure that you pull out the Premium Luxury incentives in the prior period.
If you just look at our reported numbers we had a 20-basis-point improvement.
But when you normalize for that it was about 80 basis points.
We're looking for generally about a 50% flow-through on incremental gross.
Didn't quite get that this quarter because most of the gross profit growth that came in in the quarter came on the new vehicle side and that doesn't flow through quite the same rate as some of the other gross profit streams that we have.
In terms of the Shared Service Center we'll be completed with the Florida rollout by the end of this year and then roll into some of the applications purchasing and some of other capabilities that we can add to that going forward.
And we haven't called out a specific target in terms of step-level changes associated with those.
But as I've mentioned in previous calls we've been sub-70 on our SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross in the past and we're targeting to get back there.
The next question is coming from Patrick Archambault Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On the topic of inventories I understand -- I guess 2 questions.
On a headline basis you definitely see levels at Nissan Toyota and even Honda getting up to more normalized levels.
But is there pockets of constraints that are still an issue there? Or do you think that at this point they're in a position to largely meet all the pent-up demand that is presumably there? And then maybe just extending that broadly I think there was an article or 2 talking about passenger car inventory constraints in the system and I was just wondering if that was something you're seeing as well.
This is Mike Jackson.
First I think the inventory as far as its overall level is in great shape.
And the quality of the inventory and the quality of what's being built compared to what consumers want is one of the closest matches that I've ever seen.
The industry is behaving in a very disciplined way.
When something's not selling well they stop producing it rather quickly.
That's not the behavior of the past.
Certainly there will always be something that's a little overproduced and needs a tactical incentive to deal with and there will always be something that's hot and in short supply.
Mike why don't you talk about some of those imbalances? Patrick again we're pleased with our inventory pleased with the supply-demand balance.
But underneath it we would love to have more Premium Luxury inventory.
We would love to have more small car inventory and there are always select models that we'd like more of.
But we've been buying aggressively.
We've been buying what's available and really paying attention to our turn rates so that we can earn more of the more desirable product.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Very helpful.
And maybe one I don't know I feel like it might be -- it might have been a little while since we sort of revisited the M&amp;A theme.
You guys do have some dry powder.
Clearly the choice has been buybacks.
I think you've said that explicitly.
But how are you thinking about inorganic growth as an opportunity here? Patrick it's Mike Maroone.
We continue to look for opportunities.
Where we're looking for opportunities is in the markets that we're currently in and our goal is to get representation of every major brand in those markets.
So there it's a matter of what's available and can we buy at the right price.
So we're out looking.
We're out making offers and are very interested in growing by acquisition but only in a very disciplined way.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is the environment sort of more or less conducive today than it was last year or kind of unchanged I guess? I haven't seen a major breakthrough in the environment.
I think there are still deals out there.
And again it gets down to price and getting the right store and the right location.
But I don't -- I haven't seen any fundamental changes in valuation.
The next question is coming from Jamie Albertine Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just very quickly just to touch on a point you mentioned a moment ago.
Could you dig into in a little bit more detail maybe by brand some of the constraints you were up against on the Premium and Luxury side during the quarter? Just noticing in your breakout obviously a 2% increase in sales and a 14% increase in units if I have it right.
Wanted to understand in a little bit more detail what's going on there.
Jamie it's Mike Maroone.
Again going back to Mike Short's comment from the aberration from a year ago if you adjust for the onetime incentives a year ago that segment actually was at a plus 11% not a plus 2%.
So I think the segment's still very healthy.
But clearly there was a very strong market in Premium Luxury.
At year end the market was very heavily incented.
The inventories were way down in January.
They're starting to rebuild but we clearly would love to have more inventory in the Mercedes BMW Audi Lexus business and continue to work hard to get that inventory.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And just one follow-up.
Congratulations on -- you've been one of the most efficient if not the most efficient dealer in the sector now for some time and to show leverage on an SG&amp;A per gross profit basis was really impressive I thought in this quarter.
We've seen now pre-recession levels of EPS on what really amounts to trough or trough-like SAAR.
I was hoping to get some of your sort of I mean not guidance but sort of views on where you think long-term EBIT margins could trend over time just given what we've seen in terms of efficiencies? Jamie this is Mike Short.
Generally what we said about this is that as gross continues to grow we expect about 50% of that incremental gross to flow through to the bottom -- to the op income line.
And so I think you see us delivering in that ballpark here now.
We expect to continue to do that as we get through the recovery.
So that'll help drive those margins up.
And we've been in terms of SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross below 70% before and targeting to get back there again.
The next question is coming from Rod Lache of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> It's Dan Galves in for Rod.
Just wanted to ask about gross profit per vehicle retailed.
On the new side saw a pretty significant reduction in that versus the last couple of quarters.
And on the other hand for used retailed units the gross profit per unit went up quite a bit sequentially.
Just wondering if you could give us any more color on what's driving those changes and how we should be forecasting for going forward? Sure Dan.
Again if you take out the onetime performance-based incentives from a year ago our gross margins were actually up 1% from a year ago.
So I don't -- there wasn't a fall-off in the new car gross.
As we look at -- as we look forward we're saying that we believe that on a full year basis that you'll see comparable grosses as what we delivered in Q1.
Again each quarter will vary some with how some of the incentives and stair-step volume-based incentives fall.
But I think you can look for stable margins.
We're always looking to grow margins but I think you could call out stable margins.
On the used vehicle side the inventories are very tight.
And we've worked really hard at putting the proper discipline in our inventories and our pricing.
And we're able to have some -- did a good job in gross with almost $1 700 in gross margin per unit.
And I think looking forward I think you can expect again comparable grosses looking forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just to clarify the fourth quarter gross profit per new vehicle retailed was like $24.50.
I think if you adjust for some incentive programs it was maybe $24.20 something like that.
And it was 20 -- around $21.80 per unit in the first quarter.
So just looking sequentially like what do you think was the driving force behind what was I think was a reduction versus the fourth quarter levels? The fourth quarter level -- the fourth quarter is always heavily influenced by Premium Luxury.
Premium Luxury is very robust.
And I think you can assume that fourth quarters will be that way.
So we -- that's why I said as when we look over a full year we're comparable -- or we're comfortable in the 2 150 to 2 200.
I think you will see spikes in certain quarters due to mix and incentive activity.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's really helpful.
And just wanted to ask for a second just wanted to get your take on how big the mix shift has been in the first quarter in terms of customer demand for smaller vehicles versus larger vehicles.
And then we've noticed that fuel prices were down slightly last week and more meaningfully this week.
Usually that signals kind of a normalization of mix.
I just wanted to get your thoughts on that going forward.
We actually saw no shift in mix during the quarter.
And that's one of the things I referred to earlier that you can get the size vehicle you want the performance your vehicle want and dramatically improve fuel efficiency without downsizing.
Now the offering is better in every segment.
Everybody has much more attractive small cars today than they did 5 years ago.
But really the transformation that's occurred is that the consumer comes in and says "Tell me what the technology does for me at what price." And they -- where the downsizing is occurring is in the size of the engine displacement.
They're willing to take fewer cylinders and a smaller displacement engine that's higher tech that gives them the same performance with dramatically improved fuel efficiency.
And they wouldn't have done that in the past.
In the past they would have insisted on their V8 pickup truck but that is the big change that's out there.
And I think it's permanent.
I think this more sophisticated approach to technology is not going to unwind as gas prices go back down.
So we're not seeing the traditional stampede to smaller vehicles as consumer reaction to higher gas prices.
It's more tell me the technology and the technology that's addressing the consumer need has a relatively modest incremental cost and why hybrid sales are up.
It's not the issue or the answer.
It's direct injection turbocharging 6 7 8 9 speed automatic transmissions.
That's what's selling.
Research Division</strong> One more quick one.
Are you hearing anything about the resin shortage from the OEMs? And also just housekeeping when comparing to your leverage covenants should we be using the 2.98 that you mentioned earlier or the 2.75 net number? On the resin all manufacturers have confirmed the production plan for the next 6 weeks.
No disruption.
And they say while there are challenges they expect to have them all resolved before it becomes an issue.
And so the situation is nothing comparable to the earthquake or to the floods in Thailand.
And on the leverage question the 2.98 is really the mechanical test versus the 3.75x covenant.
So that's actually where we stand relative to the covenant.
We provide the additional data point to give you a sense for if we applied cash that we have on hand how low could we get it.
So they're both relevant but for different reasons.
The next question is coming from Ravi Shanker Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> When you look at the SAAR back up to the 14 million to 15 million level would you say that the California and Florida markets are also getting back up to a more normalized level of sales? Or is there a long way to go there? Ravi it's Mike Maroone.
We're pleased with the progress.
California for us was up about 5% in the quarter.
Florida was up about 7%.
So they're making good steady progress.
They made good progress in 2011.
Certainly all of the formerly hot real estate markets have had some pressure.
We also saw 7% growth in Arizona which was another key market for us.
So I think they're coming back.
They're certainly not coming back at quite the pace for the rest of the country but we're very pleased with the progress.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And also just going back just following up on the M&amp;A strategy you highlighted earlier it does look like you're focusing a little bit more on adding new points rather than acquisitions.
Would you say it's a fair characterization of your strategy? And what benefits of that might be? Certainly we work real hard at the relationships with key manufacturers.
There's been a lot of give and take.
There's been a lot of investments and a lot more dialogue with manufacturers than there was.
And add points are very desirable for us.
They're typically in the markets we represent with the brand that we don't represent.
So we're taking advantage of some real estate that we've got and some opportunities and are very pleased to be selected.
But at the same time we are looking actively for acquisitions and have teams out there talking to different retailers trying to find the right opportunities.
So we'd like to grow with both strategies.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And finally you said you made a new hire to expand your digital capabilities.
Can you talk a little more about what that might entail and what the opportunities are? I don't know that we're ready to lay out a whole digital strategy on this call.
But certainly the world shifted very rapidly and e-commerce is a very important part of our business.
The traffic that comes online continues to grow.
We want to be sure that we're positioning the company looking forward and making sure that we've got those capabilities.
Greg Ravelle has got a very unique background coming out of Expedia.
He brings some new capabilities to the company and we're really excited to have him here.
And I think you'll find that our marketing going forward will be aggressive.
And it'll really take advantage of some of the size and scale we have and some of the expertise that Greg and other members of our team bring.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And to the extent that you can comment on that are you talking more about just getting better websites and listing your inventory more efficiently? Or is it directly selling cars on the Internet potentially like GM tried to do a couple of years ago? Well we're already in some pilot programs.
We're selling cars online.
We think there's opportunity everywhere.
Customers have had experiences online.
They're getting much more comfortable online.
And they certainly are looking to search for product get pricing.
We're now providing values on trade-ins finance quotes online.
We're really expanding our product offerings.
We're at the early stages and are piloting a bunch of new ideas but we believe there is opportunity.
Certainly every website's got opportunity to improve.
You've got to improve your search capabilities.
And we're working really hard on those issues.
The next question is coming from Matt Nemer Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just had a quick question on parts and service customer care.
Your margin gross margin percentage was below 42% for the last 3 quarters and it's been running 30 -- 43% to 44% pretty consistently over the last 10 years.
So I was just wondering what's changed in the last few quarters? Is it primarily mix? Or is there something within one of the segments? Matt it's Mike Maroone.
Certainly we have become much more aggressive in the tire business and the quick service business.
We also are a big player in parts wholesale and collision.
All of those have impact on margins.
We believe that the margins have bottomed at this point.
But what we're really looking to do is capture more of the customers' spend and be able to be a full-service retailer.
And I think we're making good steps in that way.
Just as an example our tire revenue was up 38% year-over-year in the quarter.
And it really shows an aggressive attempt to serve customers in that segment.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly in the used car business you mentioned a pretty significant increase in appraisal traffic and we've heard that from some other players including CarMax.
Just wondering why appraisal traffic is running so much higher than new vehicle sales or even used vehicle sales.
I think people have held on to their cars longer.
You've got cars with much higher mileage and it's -- we're getting to the point where it might not be an option as to whether they trade as much as there might be a need to trade.
That's only speculation on my part.
What we're more focused on is when we do get an opportunity to appraise a vehicle to win that appraisal at the right price and ultimately retail that vehicle.
LLC Research Division</strong> And on that topic you mentioned a 47% close ratio.
How does that compare to historical close ratios on appraisals? And have there been any changes in the customer experience around appraisals? Matt we were -- we used to be in the high 30s low 40s.
So we have made progress.
We've got a lot of training and a lot of discussion as to what best practices are in appraisals have a very defined process.
And I'm really pleased with the team's execution.
There's a lot of data out there in the market available and we're trying to take advantage of that data to put the right money on the car and win that trade.
So it's -- I would it's process improvement training and focus.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just one quick follow-up on used business.
Can you give us the number of used vehicle transfers in the quarter? And then do you have any information you can share around the volume in your value vehicle outlets? In terms of moving vehicles I think we moved somewhere in the neighborhood of 12 000 13 000 vehicles in the quarter and are pleased with our ability to do that.
That's why we've got concentrations in markets so that we can achieve that.
In terms of the vehicle -- value vehicle outlets there's 27 of them open at this point in time.
It continues to grow.
That segment continues to grow and provide opportunity for us.
We're really pleased with that segment.
And certainly there's more work to do.
The next question is coming from Colin Langan UBS.
Research Division</strong> Can I just quickly confirm when you're addressing the resin issue before did you say that the automakers have confirmed that the next 6 weeks of production will not be impacted? That's correct.
We have no reports of any production being canceled or delayed.
Now I would point out we had the same situation there with the earthquake and with the floods that there usually is 4 to 6 weeks of parts in the system.
So when something like this happens you have 4 to 6 weeks before it's an issue.
And we're being told that during that period of time they will find solutions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And they said this is a recent number this sort of 6 weeks of -- not as of the beginning of the disaster? That's as of today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the stair-step program do you expect those incentives to be flat year-over-year? Or is that going be a headwind since there were some pretty big stair-steps last year? It's Mike Maroone Colin I think that overall incentives will be flat.
The tactic seemed to shift quarter to quarter based on need and based on what manufacturers are trying to accomplish.
I don't know that we have a crystal ball on which elements of incentives will grow and which ones will shrink.
But we do anticipate that the overall incentive environment will be flat.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you disclosed that there was a $4.6 million luxury incentive this quarter.
What was that compared to last year? Were there no incentives last year in Q1? That was last year's number.
There's none this year.
So what we're demonstrating is that the new vehicle margin was up slightly year-over-year not down as we exclude those numbers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That makes more sense to me.
And then lastly there's -- obviously with gas prices until recently rising what is the impact to the dealer? I believe a lot of the compact cars are pretty low profit? Or are there -- is that a concern for you that people continue to shift towards the smaller cars? Or is there any other actions that you can take? We see no shift to small cars.
Research Division</strong> But is there -- from the profit side those are lower profits right? Or is it the profits are like the same? Well  if there's been no shift there's no impact.
The margins on a percentage basis are the same if not higher than trucks.
But of course the transaction price is lower.
So Mike do you have the exact earning grosses? I don't have them at my fingertips for the segments.
But I do want to echo what Mike said is the small car mix is identical to a year ago.
Certainly within quarters there's some movement.
But year-over-year they're the same.
Research Division</strong> And the margins are the same as what you have just said too? The margins as a percent not in raw dollars.
As a percent -- just for example as a percent the small car margins in Q1 were 6.7%.
Midsize cars were 6.6% AUVs were 6.7%.
And large pickups were 5.4% which really illustrates Mike Jackson's point of higher price point less percent margin.
The dollar margin was actually higher than small cars.
So it's a little bit of a mixed bag.
So my point is there has not been a shift to small cars.
It's 20% of the business a year ago 20% of the business today.
The last question will come from Brett Hoselton of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I think you already answered a couple of my questions but let me just verify.
First of all it sounds like you're not anticipating any increase in incentive activity by possibly Toyota or Honda driving overall incentive activity in the marketplace.
I mean in order to regain the market share that they've lost it sounds like your thoughts are we're probably going to see them just maintain incentive activity where it's currently at and just allow the inventory rebuild to regain market share or something along those lines? Yes.
I don't see -- I think that they're really focused on production and rolling out new products.
There's a slew of new products coming out of Toyota brand new CRV from Honda refreshes coming up on the Accord and Civic.
But I think it's about new product launches and production.
And I don't think that either one of them is going to go out and try and buy the market with incentives.
I think they're going to try and earn the business through product.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then switching to credit availability.
As you pointed out we've seen a nice steady improvement in terms of credit availability even at the lower end.
My question is have you been approached or seen any potential subprime startups or something along those lines which might result in some sort of a stair-step increase in the availability of credit and particularly at the low end of the market? Or do you anticipate just possibly a slow continued steady gradual improvement in credit availability? Brett it's Mike Maroone.
There are some new players in subprime.
I don't think they're big new players.
I think they're niche players.
And I think the restoration of credit over the years subprime was the last to come to the party.
And it's now back and we can get people without stellar credit financed.
And it's a good healthy environment.
But I don't see a slew of new players that takes subprime up to another level.
I think the industry has been very disciplined and has had really developed the ability to collect.
And the delinquencies never got way out of control even in the downturn and they seem to be in good shape today.
Thank you everyone for your time today.
This will conclude today's conference.
All parties may disconnect at this time.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to AutoNation's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect.
I would now turn the call over to Miss Cheryl Scully Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations for AutoNation.
Ma'am you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to AutoNation's second quarter 2012 conference call and webcast.
Leading our call today will be Mike Jackson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mike Maroone our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Short our Chief Financial Officer.
Following their remarks we will open up the call for questions.
Kate Keyser-Pearlman and I will also be available by phone following the call to address any additional questions that you may have.
Before we begin let me read our brief statement regarding forward-looking comments and the use of non-GAAP financial measures.
Certain statements and information on this call will constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve risks which may cause the actual results or performance to differ materially from expectations.
Additional discussions of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are contained in our SEC filings.
Certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules will be discussed on this call.
Reconciliations are provided in our press release which is available on our website at investors.autonation.com.
And now I'll turn the call over to AutoNation's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mike Jackson.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
Today we reported an all-time record quarterly adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.66 for the second quarter a 35% increase as compared to $0.49 for the same period in the prior year.
Second quarter 2012 revenue totaled $3.9 billion compared to $3.3 billion in the year-ago period an increase of 17% driven primarily by stronger retail new vehicle unit sales.
In the second quarter total U.S.
industry new vehicle retail sales increased 15% based on CNW Research.
In comparison during the same period AutoNation's new vehicle unit sales increased 29%.
Our improved operating leverage in the second quarter reflects our disciplined focus on expense management as well as long-term investments in centralized processes.
We have effectively leveraged our scale to drive cost savings and deliver improved shareholder returns.
We've continued to focus on investments in technology and best practices which revolve around the customer experience leading to efficiencies in our operations.
These investments in the customer experience have continued to improve the productivity of our associates.
In the second quarter we saw a revenue growth of 17% with a headcount increase of just over 2%.
In the second quarter we saw Import inventories return to normal and Import unit sales growth of 44% over the same period last year when both Toyota and Honda were dealing with a limited supply of parts for production due to the earthquake.
As we previously have discussed the recovery is driven by a replacement demand as the age of the fleet on the road has now increased to 11 years old.
Also manufacturers have stepped up the launch pace of new models.
Finally the credit environment is very strong with low interest rates and ample credit availability.
AutoNation is well positioned to capitalize on recovery with an optimal brand and market mix and a disciplined cost structure.
We continue to demonstrate our ability to drive strong shareholder returns during the multiyear recovery in auto retail.
I'll now turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Mike Short.
Thank you Mike and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
For the second quarter we reported adjusted net income from continuing operations of $82 million or $0.66 per share versus $73 million or $0.49 per share during the second quarter of 2011 a 35% improvement on a per-share basis.
Our second quarter results for the year exclude $2.6 million or $0.02 per share related to a franchise impairment.
There were no other adjustments to net income in the prior-year period.
Adjustments to net income are included in the reconciliations provided in our press release.
In the second quarter revenue increased $568 million or 17% compared to the prior year and gross profit improved by $45 million or 8%.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross profit was 69.8% for the quarter which represents 180-basis-point improvement compared to the year-ago period.
We're pleased with these results and continue to focus on improving operating leverage across our business.
Net new vehicle floorplan was a benefit of $8.2 million an improvement of $4.8 million from the second quarter of 2011 primarily due to higher floorplan assistance driven by increased vehicle sales as well as negotiated -- as well as lower negotiated floorplan interest rates compared to the year -- to the prior-year period.
Floorplan debt was $2.1 billion at quarter end an increase of approximately $110 million from March 31 2012 in line with inventory levels.
Non-vehicle interest expense was $22.5 million for the quarter an increase of $6.6 million compared to the $15.9 million in the second quarter of 2011 due to higher debt levels and a shift towards longer-term fixed rate debt.
We had $530 million of outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility at the end of June.
On June 30 our total non-vehicle debt balance was $2 billion an increase of $584 million compared to June 30 2011.
The provision for income tax in the quarter was $51 million or 39%.
During the second quarter we repurchased 3.7 million shares or $126.2 million and an average price of $33.99 per share.
We announced today that our board has authorized repurchase of an additional $250 million of AutoNation common stock.
As a result AutoNation now has $368 million remaining in board authorization for share repurchase.
As of June 30 there were 120.6 million shares outstanding.
This does not include the dilutive impact of stock options which was 2 million shares in the second quarter of 2012.
Our leverage ratio at June 30 was 3.05x or 2.83x on a net-debt basis including used floorplan availability compared to the limit of 3.75x.
Capital expenditures were $32 million for the quarter.
We expect CapEx to be approximately $155 million for the year.
Capital expenditures are on an accrual basis excluding operating lease buyouts and related asset sales.
Our quarter-end cash balance was $62 million which combined with our additional borrowing capacity resulted in total liquidity of over $600 million at the end of June.
Our strong cash flow generation and lean cost structure position us to continue to invest in our business.
We remain focused on actively allocating capital to maximize shareholder returns.
Now let me turn you over to our President and Chief Operating Officer Mike Maroone.
Thanks Mike and good morning.
In the second quarter we saw revenue growth in all business sectors and gross profit increases in new vehicles Customer Care and finance and insurance along with a strong operating margin of 4.2% an all-time record adjusted earnings per share for the third consecutive quarter.
As I continue my comments we'll be on a same-store basis in compared to the period 1 year ago unless noted otherwise.
We reported strong new vehicle sales in the second quarter with a 29% increase compared to 1 year ago which was significantly ahead of industry retail sales which according to CNW Research were up 15% for the same period.
AutoNation retailed 66 800 new vehicles in the quarter an increase of 15 000 units with growth in all 3 segments.
Particularly the Import segment where on a total store basis volume was up 44%.
Its inventory was normalized compared to the quarter 1 year ago when Japanese production disruption occurred.
Domestic segment new vehicle sales volume increased 17% followed by Premium Luxury which was up 16%.
Relative to geography overall it was a very good quarter in almost every market where we operate with California Colorado Texas and Florida continuing to show strong year-over-year improvement.
On a same-store basis our California new vehicle volume increased nearly 40% Colorado was up 35% and Texas and Florida were each up nearly 30%.
New vehicle revenue increased $446 million or 26% to $2.2 billion.
Revenue per new vehicle retailed was $32 800 down about $900 or 3% due in part to a shift in mix toward Japanese models which have a lower price point.
Gross profit per new vehicle retailed of $2 173 declined 18% or $465 compared to the quarter 1 year ago and new vehicle gross profit as a percent of revenue is 6.6% was off 120 basis points.
We attribute this in large part to the tight supply of Japanese inventory in the prior period that drove exceptionally strong margins.
New vehicle gross profit as a percent of revenue was off just 10 basis points sequentially and flat with the second quarter of 2010.
We were pleased with our new vehicle inventory at the end of the quarter.
At June 30 new vehicle days supply was 60 days or 49 200 units compared to 59 days or 38 900 units 1 year ago.
Next AutoNation retailed 46 000 used vehicles in the quarter an increase of 3 200 units or 7% compared to 1 year ago.
Same-store retail used vehicle revenue of $827 million increased $41 million or 5% year-over-year.
Revenue per used vehicle retailed of $17 971 declined 2% or $379.
At $75 million same-store retail used vehicle gross profit declined 3% or $2 million.
Gross profit per used vehicle retailed of $1 629 was down $171 or 10% due in part to margin compression on certified preowned vehicles.
In June 30 our used vehicle days supply was 31 days compared to 36 days 1 year ago.
We are working hard to source the vast majority of our used inventory internally through acquiring trades and purchasing off-lease vehicles.
In addition we continue to move used vehicles from originating stores to more optimal locations.
Under this initiative we moved 10 000 used vehicles in the quarter with good success at retail.
Turning to service parts and collision which we now call Customer Care same-store revenue of $601 million increased $29 million or 5% and gross profit of $253 million increased $8 million or 3% compared to the quarter 1 year ago.
We're very pleased with our ability to grow our Customer Care business despite being at an industry low point for units in operation in the dealership service space that dates back to the mid-1980s.
The units in operation base is expected to begin growing again in 2013.
Relative to our customer pay business gross profit was up 2% more than offsetting a 5% decline in warranty gross on a dollar basis.
This was the eighth consecutive quarter of year-over-year gains in customer pay gross as well as revenue.
Internal gross profit increased due to higher vehicle sales and you'll also note that in the quarter we had strong growth in our wholesale parts business and our collision business.
Together they represented 25% of our gross improvement.
Next finance and insurance.
Where in the quarter of total gross profit of $145 million increased $28 million or 24% compared to 1 year ago.
Same-store gross profit per vehicle retailed of $1 283 was up $47 or 4% in the quarter.
We're very pleased with our continued strong performance in finance and insurance and remain focused on full transparency and providing value-added products that can drive long-term customer retention.
There were no changes to our store portfolio in the quarter.
To recap it stands at 215 stores with 260 franchises representing 32 brands in 15 states.
As always we continue to actively pursue acquisition opportunities that meet our market brand and return on investment criteria.
In closing we're very pleased with our performance in the quarter and year-to-date.
One of our goals was to exit the downturn as a stronger company and we did just that.
Our intense focus on associate development retention and productivity is evidenced by the 17% increase in revenue compared to the period 1 year ago with a headcount increase of just over 2% on a total store basis.
We also continued to invest in technology advancements and best practice processes at every customer touch point.
This coupled with disciplined expense control is driving strong results.
On behalf of our executive team I'd like to thank our 20 000 associates for their commitment to delivering memorable customer experiences and for their dedication to AutoNation.
With that I'll turn it back to Mike Jackson.
Thanks Mike.
Second quarter industry selling rate was 14.1 million units a 16% improvement over prior year.
As we look at the rest of 2012 we believe that improvement in new vehicle sales year-over-year will continue and.
I have a planning assumption for 2012 industry new vehicle sales in the mid-14 million unit range.
We believe that the accelerated product launches replacement demand and robust consumer credit will continue to support a strong sales environment.
Thank you and we will now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is coming from Rick Nelson of Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Mike kind of -- the new car side the unit growth that'll be tough order.
Do you think that sort of level can be maintained into the third quarter where comparisons would appear to be potentially even easier given the supply constraints 1 year ago? Yes obviously I just confirmed that we still believe it'll be in the mid-14s.
So anywhere from 14 250 000 to 14 750 000 somewhere in there.
I think the third quarter is going to be fine.
I think the only questionable period or risky period is how the year closes and nothing to do with the automotive recovery or underlying drivers just simply the election and the fiscal cliff and all the real drama that will come with that.
And at the end of the day I believe there will be a grand bargain but it could even bake in to the beginning of next year and how disruptive that will be to the economy and to business nobody really knows.
But I think we're on a journey back to 16 million units.
The only question is the pace with which we get there.
And so -- but we think it's mid-14 million for this year.
And really the risk is in the fourth quarter not the third.
Research Division</strong> And then if you could comment on inventory as it appears the Japanese imports that we've normalized there we're hearing about some issues and challenges on the Luxury side and how do you see that shaking up? Mike Maroone can talk about it in detail but I would say in principle the inventory situation compared to 5 years ago we're in an entirely new world.
When something is not selling the manufacturer stops making it rather than putting on additional shifts.
The quality of the inventory as far as its configuration is dramatically higher.
Manufacturers are really trying to produce exactly what people would like to buy and the absolute levels of inventory are totally acceptable.
But Mike you can talk about specific manufacturers.
Rick you're correct in calling up Premium Luxury.
There's a little bit more pressure in Premium Luxury but we still have between a 40- and 45-days supply of most products there.
We have a 60-days supply in aggregate for our total inventory.
But there is pressure in certain product lines for certain manufacturers.
Just for example BMW certainly has had some production issues with the 3 Series launch.
I think those are behind us.
And I think you'll see our inventories build nicely in the fall.
And as you know the end of the year is really the time to shine in Premium Luxury and I'm confident that we'll have the inventory to meet the demand.
But that's probably the primary tight spot.
There's also some select other gaps but all in all we're very pleased with our inventory and are continuing to buy aggressively.
Research Division</strong> If I could just ask one more in the finance and I know you called that out as a driver of debt recovery.
In terms of looking at prime the near-prime and the sub-prime do you think we're back at prerecession levels or do we still have a way to go on the sub-prime? No I would describe it this way.
I think as far as automotive finance we're fully back to '06 and the availability is just terrific.
But what is different of course is using home equity lines as a piggy bank those days are over.
And that has nothing to do with auto finance but it certainly was part of the business that people could use home equity for down payments or even to pay for the entire car.
So that game is over.
So I think in a period where sales were depressed you had a certain savings from individuals in order to make some sort of appropriate down payment and now we're through that that the people have a down payment.
And so the decision point that the consumer is at is they've postponed replacing the car.
It's now very old.
They've postponed a lot of maintenance work.
They have saved some money so do they spend money fixing this old clunker or do they do something? And it's very positive constructive conversation on the showroom floor whether it's a -- just going from a very old car to a something that's newer or a brand-new car and then you have exciting products and great financing.
It is the combination that's driving the business.
Next question is coming from John Murphy Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just the -- first question I mean your sales pace increase on the new vehicle side was really basically double the industry in the quarter.
I'm just trying to understand is that a function of geography in brands or is there something else going on at AutoNation where you were able to really take some market share from your competing dealers? There's 3 factors there John.
I would say the first and most important factor is the brand mix.
So we were overly impacted by the situation with the Japanese last year in that 50% of our unit volume is with the Japanese brand.
And so therefore this year of course relative to the industry we will outperform with the recovery of the Japanese we were up 44% with the Japanese.
We were also disproportionately impacted with our geographic mix.
We were ground zero for the housing meltdown in our big states Florida California Arizona and Nevada.
What we now see is that housing has stabilized in those markets and there are the first indications of a housing recovery and we had excellent performance in those markets this past quarter.
And finally we are indeed taking share and Mr.
Maroone can talk about that and the drivers of that.
John we've been very aggressive this year.
We've been aggressive buying inventory we've been aggressive marketing and we're really pleased with our performance.
We felt we had an opportunity.
And I think it goes back to what Mike Jackson's objectives were when we entered the downturn and that's to come out as a stronger company.
So he and our board allowed us to continue to invest in acquiring talent we invested in facilities we invested in IT and of course continued to invest in process.
And I think it paid off for us very nicely.
So if I was to weight those for you John just back of the envelope I would say it's 50% the Japanese situation then the geography is probably another 30% and taking market share is probably 20%.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's incredibly helpful.
Then a second question just on the parts and service business because it appears to be sort of reaccelerating here.
I think you -- last quarter you were up about 4% same-store; this quarter you're up about 5%.
There's been -- this year the UIOs have declined yet you seem to be trumping that quite handily.
We've also heard a lot of noise about some weakness in the aftermarket in general from some of the retailers and even the tire companies.
So just curious what you're seeing in your parts and service space what's going on there what the consumers are coming in for and what kind of efforts that you're putting forth there to really outpace what appears to be a weak aftermarket in general? I'll start.
This is Mike Jackson again.
Starting with the big picture no question that the dramatic decline in units in operation has been a headwind for our Customer Care business for the last several years.
And we can really feel that we're at the trough at the moment.
And the rate of decline has slowed significantly and you can feel a bottoming out.
And we are certain that a headwind will become a tailwind going into next year.
Like anything in life when we face this difficult headwind we redoubled our efforts and focus on Customer Care and we're determined to come out of this tumultuous period stronger than we went into it.
And that included structural changes here with our organization creating a separate division for Customer Care with a single area of focus with an executive to lead that effort with Alan McLaren joining us from Mercedes Benz.
And Mike you can talk about some of the specific initiatives we have underway.
There's a lot that's going on John.
I'll call out a few.
One is we've made some real investments in collision and are really seeing a nice growth in the collision business.
We have consolidated some parts wholesale opportunities and finding ways to use our size and scale.
And lastly our tire business which is up about 25% we've got a very effective and efficient tire operations in every single store which we were just developing 1 year ago and I think there's a nice payoff.
But there's a real retail focus here.
As Mike said we've added some real talent in the organization and we're really pleased that we're growing 5% at a time where we're hitting the bottom of the UIO cycle which we expect to begin to increase the end of this year and into '13.
So we're very optimistic about our efforts and we'll continue to look for ways to invest in our capabilities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly on SG&amp;A you guys continue to surprise on the positive side there.
And we sort of used to as a rough rule of thumb historically think about SG&amp;A as about half-fixed and half-variable.
Are we at the point where you've cut real deep here you're going to get much better leverage and we should think about maybe 3 quarters fixed and 1 quarter variable? I'm just trying to ballpark this because you do continue to surprise to the upside there? Yes John again Mike Jackson to make a basic statement.
We really view it as a productivity drive.
We -- we're not trying to cut or squeeze.
We really want to put in place a system of productivity that we can attract talent and the talent that's with us can really be successful both with their career and with their earning capacity and that leads to great morale in the company.
So -- and we have achieved that.
So that's a great place to be and we have our associates today who are -- the whole culture is how do we do it smarter better faster next year than we did it the year before and how do we find I call it win-win or win-win-win win for the customer win for the associate and win for the company.
That's a very different approach than a pure cost-cutting approach.
And it's difficult to predict exactly when all that falls through but the trend line is absolutely in the right direction.
And Mr.
Short why don't you add something? Sure.
Thanks Mike.
And John we've been focusing on this productivity theme for many many years with the investments and the shared service center.
We are almost complete with the extended model.
We'll be complete before the end of the year with the Florida region which is the last region to go in.
And that has allowed us to take some of our costs and make them more fixed adding lower cost structure.
And to Mike's point it’s as much a focus on how do we get our business to generate gross as it is to how do we get our business to operate at a lower cost level.
I think just in terms of main themes on SG&amp;A we know that we've operated below 70% of gross profit in the past and it's been our target to get there so we're very gratified to see the organization at that level or essentially meeting that 70% threshold right now.
And we think that there's room to go beyond that.
In terms of how do you think about the cost structure going forward a 50% variables is fairly close and our goal was to continue to deliver about 50% of the increase in gross profit as a flow-through to the bottom line.
So we continue to focus on that.
And I think if you go back over time you'll see that we've consistently executed at that level.
So we're very pleased with the contribution from all the associates against that productivity initiative.
The next question is coming from Simeon Gutman Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> If you look at the new vehicle comp in the quarter is there any way you can provide some color on how the growth was driven among the different credit groups whether it was the prime sub-prime or the non-prime? Simeon it's Mike Maroone.
We're seeing real competition in all 3 of those segments.
So sub-prime which was the last to be restored is now very robust.
I think it's still rational but I don't think we're seeing any particular growth in any of those segments.
The sub-prime was restored last year and we just see great competition we see big lenders that really believe they can get good returns on automotive credit.
And the competition's good so I think it's a -- I think all 3 are fueling the recovery.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just on the topic of replacement demand does that mean that when you're selling a new car are you seeing a lot more trade-in and at least the self-sourcing of used is that improving and should that continue? Well I think it will.
I -- we're seeing cars with higher mileage.
We're seeing older cars which I think reflects the pent-up demand in the replacement need that Mike Jackson speaks to.
And for our part we're just finding more ways to retail those cars rather than wholesale.
We've now got 27 of our Value Vehicle Outlets open.
We're now testing another concept with a premium value outlet that we're opening.
And so we're seeing the trades and our ideas to monetize the trades and not to go outside the network to buy a lot of inventory.
And so I think it's very been very successful for us.
And then when we get that inventory we really look at it and say "How do we optimize the inventory? Which franchises and locations can we get the best value from?" And as I mentioned in my comments we moved 10 000 vehicles last quarter and I think that speaks to the size and scale that we have as a company.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then staying on the used car theme do you have an outlook or sense for the gross profits? I think year-over-year we saw this normalization which was expected just given how good things were 1 year ago.
But it looks like the depreciation may have started a little earlier than normal and it's starting and it's happened for a couple of months now.
Do you think the depreciation will be above-average given that and given the shift that we are seeing with new car sales so strong? We've seen in the last couple of months -- we're seeing a little bit of softening in prices but it's very consistent with the seasonality we've experienced over our careers.
I think the used vehicle business is still a great opportunity.
The margins do seem to fluctuate a little bit quarter-to-quarter but I think we can be confident we'll be in the low 9s to 10% margin as a percent of revenue.
And we're running our inventories very lean we're running -- this quarter we ended with a 31-days supply.
David Koehler is overseeing our sales operation doing a good job of keeping us lean.
And when we do that we're not as susceptible to fluctuations in price.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly for Mike Short the leverage ratio at 3.05 I think how do you feel about that versus sort of where the buyback is and what sort of limitations or what's the comfort range of where you can flex that to in the context of the buyback? Yes I mean we think having a strong balance sheet allows you to be opportunistic.
Over the last year we bought back almost $1 billion in stock at just below $35 a share.
So we've been aggressive and tried to be -- create value create some opportunities for our shareholders.
And we continue to believe that our balance sheet is strong and we have room relative to our covenants and we'll continue to try to be opportunistic.
In terms of actually communicating specific targets about how high we do want to take the ratio we've avoided that because obviously we don't want to tie our hands in any way.
The next question is coming from Adi Oberoi of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First of all on the margins in the new business obviously there was a little bit of a sequential decline.
And are you guys feeling the pressure off the competition in the market just because of the stair step incentives that some OEMs have redeployed and that is creating some extra competition in the market at the dealer level? This is Mike Jackson.
Of course the biggest reason for the change in margin is the comparison with the prior year an extraordinary situation.
And the sequential decline I think is very minor.
10 basis points.
10 basis points.
But in principle you're right it's-- there's still a lot of competition out there in the marketplace.
Stair steps are still used by certain manufacturers.
They are definitely a old-school practice that wreaks havoc with customers and with the margins and feeds a lot of distrust in the marketplace.
And really have no reason to be in today's marketplace so we have to struggle and deal with those.
But yes it remains competitive out there even though you have growing demand.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And the second question on the used to new ratio this is the first time you guys went below 0.7 after quite a while now.
So as the new continues to pick up do you think -- how should we think about the used and new going forward given that -- do you think used will grow at a slower pace or you will put some more measures so that the used to new ticks back up to the -- above the 0.7 mark? It's Mike Maroone.
We're very focused on the used car business.
I think that the -- the changes really are more a recovery in the new vehicle business specifically in the Japanese brand.
But we are very committed to the used car business.
As I mentioned earlier we're trying to retail more of our trades than ever before.
We’ve put more resources in used and I think we'll continue to enjoy good growth.
We grew the volume at about 7.5% and I think at prior quarter we were maybe about 10% 11%.
So we're still seeing good strong growth.
I think the new vehicle is the -- maybe a little bit of a distorted number but we're really committed to the used car business and have a lot of talent and focus on that area.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And finally if you can comment on July auto sales any early leads on that please? We never comment on the current month what's underway but we do as you're well aware at the end of the month we'll report our new vehicle retail sales as to the manufacturers to give you as much information as we can on a timely basis.
The next question is coming from Jamie Albertine Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to focus on 2 separate questions.
One topic on the used side.
I just wanted to understand your strategy I mean given the lack of late-model supply and the lack of the [indiscernible] vehicles and your ability to retail older vintage perhaps higher-mileage vehicle are you able to enhance your acquisition offer or trade-in offer given your scale and breadth relative to competition so in effect are you paying more for trade-ins and is that helping consumers make the decision to convert their existing car to a new vehicle? It's Mike Maroone.
We clearly are very aggressive trying to win trade and we do that full knowing that we can move that trade to another location that can allow us to generate a higher revenue and more gross margin.
So we're competing vigorously we have made a conscious attempt to not be a big auction buyer so that's the source of our product.
And we know when we create that transaction even if we have to step up to that nice trade we create that transaction and give ourselves an opportunity to have several other transactions both in the F&amp;I side the used side of the business and ultimately in our Customer Care owner base.
So yes we do step up but we also are very careful about how many we keep in trade what our balance is in our inventory.
And as I mentioned earlier staying lean really makes sure that we don't have a surprise coming around the next corner.
So we're very aware of the valuations and I think our critical mass really helps us.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then as a follow-up to that question I mean what are you seeing on sort of a geographic basis in terms of demand on the used side that's helping you to retail the 10 000 vehicles and parts that you're moving between facilities? From a geographical perspective I think you're seeing the same kind of things we saw in new and that's strong recovery in California and Florida both of which had previously been impacted by the real estate crunch.
Texas is a very strong used car market as is Colorado.
So the used car market is really followed to the new car market because that's where the trade-ins are in many cases.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then my final question wanted to get an idea or an updated view on the M&amp;A environment.
So are potential sellers in a sense becoming more rational in terms of the take-out prices that they're expecting or are you seeing in general more or less sort of deals come to the table? It's Mike Maroone.
There has not been a lot of deals done in auto retail this year and I think there's still a price gap between buyers and sellers.
In this recovery auto retailers are certainly making more money and are more optimistic about the future.
They still have capital demands with the manufacturers requesting new facility.
So there's pressure on both sides but the stalemate doesn't appear to be broken.
But we are talking to people across the country.
There are opportunities there.
It's just about finding the right price/value combination for both ourselves and the sellers.
The next question is coming from Ravi Shanker Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is Yejay in for Ravi.
First question I know we're only 1 month into the program but could you talk a little bit about AutoNation Direct? How the response has been and how you see that relationship with the -- Avis evolving over time? AutoNation Direct has been very successful for us.
And what we really use it for is to test different concepts in retail and to try a number of different ideas in pricing and serving customers.
But it's really showing us though that our size and scale does work and as we build these affinity relationships where it’s -- which is the basis of AutoNation Direct's customer flow it allows us to serve customers in a very alternative way.
It's quite a unique opportunity and we're really pleased with it and we're learning a lot from the AutoNation Direct business.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And as a follow-up on that the rental guys seem to be pretty focused on moving into the direct-to-retail model.
And your partnership with Avis notwithstanding do you see it as becoming a threat to you guys over time? I don't see it as a threat I see it as very few of the rental companies that have an appetite to open a large number of retail locations.
I think the Avis test and it's early in the test shows that maybe there's an opportunity there for retailers to partner with rental companies to find ways to innovate and we're excited to go down those roads.
And your last question is coming from Rod Lache of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> It's Dan Galves in for Rod today.
I apologize but I missed the split of the business in Customer Care.
Did you say customer pay was up 2% year-over-year and was that gross profit or revenue? Customer pay is up 2% gross 5% revenue and it's about 43% of our total gross margin.
So we're seeing nice top line growth as we're competing for that customer's business.
I mentioned tires being up 25% but we're seeing nice growth on the revenue side.
And I think it's the eighth consecutive quarter that we've seen growth in customer pay.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And the other parts to the business warranty? The warranty business is down some but at one time -- or for several quarters it was down double digits.
I think it's down about 5%.
Where we're seeing very strong growth is in our wholesale parts business and our collision business.
And we're really pleased with that and it's making a big contribution to the gross margin.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then -- and how do you track -- I know you said units in operation you feel like it's troughing right now.
What definition is best to use for AutoNation's unit in operation is it like 1 to 5 years or something different? That's generally the number that's used.
We certainly would love to penetrate that market in the 6 to 10 but traditionally it's been up to 5 years is the pool that's measured and it's measured by a third party not by us.
And we watch that trend very carefully and it's giving us tremendous optimism about the future of Customer Care with both the restoration of that owner base and with the capabilities we're developing here.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then Just one question on the F&amp;I business.
$1 280 per unit very high historically.
Is there any way to split out kind of where the major strength was there and kind of how do you feel about sustainability of that type of per unit level? First of all the F&amp;I numbers vary some by quarter depending on retro-commissions and reserves so we see -- we do see some fluctuation.
We still think there's opportunity there.
Our opportunity is always focused on value-added products specifically service contracts and prepaid maintenance sales.
We think that's best for the customer it's best for customer retention and that's where the focus of this company is.
It's -- we have very strict controls on rate.
We have very strict controls on customer disclosures so it's got to be in value-added products and that's where we're seeing the primary growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And maybe one more if I can.
Over the course of the quarter I mean it seemed like there was a bit of a dip in consumer confidence.
Do -- how did the quarter flow for you guys in the different businesses in terms of month-by-month? This is Mike Jackson.
We announced our sales every month so you can see the pacing.
There's no question that there is a lot of economic uncertainty there out there in the overall economy.
Employment is a problem customers talk about it when they come in.
But the trump card is they need to do something.
They simply cannot go on.
They need a new -- they need a better vehicle to run their lives and to get to work and so they're doing something.
So those drivers are taking auto sales and sustaining them despite the economic headwinds that we face.
Research Division</strong> What do you think it takes to kind of drive the next leg of growth towards the 16 million that you were talking about? I mean does it have to be an improvement in employment? Or are there any other drivers you see that could move up the -- move the sales up from the 14.5-million range? I've said this before and I'll say it again.
The next leg that we need is housing both for the employment that it brings and for the support of truck sales light vehicle truck sales that come with it.
And as I said we are seeing signs of stabilization in housing where you still have demographic growth.
The pressure is there for household formation.
And the inventories of homes are dropping dramatically and the differentiated rate between buying new and renting has balanced so all the signs are there that housing is going to improve and that will be very beneficial going into next year.
Ultimately to get to the final leg to 16 million at some point you need an economy that's growing more than 2%.
And I think that's going to take resolution around the fiscal cliff issue remove that big cloud of uncertainty that's sitting over the U.S.
economy.
Most likely that'll happen with some sort of extension in the lame-duck session into the first part of next year and there'll be some sort of grand bargain in the first part of the year.
Because let's face it you can only do something big right after a presidential election and then there's an excuse for the next 3 years.
So everybody knows this really has to be done and the window is there with a genuine crisis and a genuine need.
So it may be disruptive in the short term then but most likely some sort of grand bargain is struck that'll be very healthy for the U.S.
economy.
Then housing is hitting its stride and the growth rate improves with the fiscal cloud removed and we're on our way back to 16 million.
But exactly the pace of all that we really need to see how those 2 issues play out.
Thank you everyone for your time today.
We appreciate you having on the call.
This will conclude today's conference.
All parties may disconnect at this time.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to AutoNation's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect.
Now I will turn the call over to Ms.
Cheryl Scully Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations for AutoNation.
Ma'am you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to AutoNation's Third Quarter 2012 Conference Call and Webcast.
Leading our call today will be Mike Jackson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mike Maroone our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Short our Chief Financial Officer.
Following their remarks we will open up the call for questions.
Kate Keyser-Pearlman and I will also be available by phone following the call to address any additional questions that you may have.
Before we begin let me read our brief statement regarding forward-looking comments and the use of non-GAAP financial measures.
Certain statements and information on this call will constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve risks which may cause the actual results or performance to differ materially from expectations.
Additional discussions of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are contained in our SEC filings.
Certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules will be discussed on this call.
Reconciliations are provided in our press release which is available on our website at investors.autonation.com.
And now I'll turn the call over to AutoNation's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mike Jackson.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
Today we reported earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.66 a record third quarter and an increase of 38% compared to the prior year period.
Third quarter 2012 revenue totaled $3.9 billion compared to $3.5 billion in the year-ago period an increase of 12% driven primarily by stronger retail new vehicle unit sales.
In the third quarter total U.S.
industry new vehicle retail sales increased 15% based on CNW Research data.
In comparison during the same period AutoNation's new vehicle unit sales increased 21%.
In the third quarter we saw import inventories return to normal and import unit sales growth of 35% over the same period last year when both Toyota and Honda were dealing with limited supply of parts for production due to the earthquake.
As we have previously discussed recovery is driven by replacement demand as the average age of the light vehicle fleet has increased to 11 years.
Also manufacturers have stepped up to launch pace of new models.
Finally the credit environment is very strong with low interest rates and ample credit available.
I'll now turn it over to our Chief Financial Officer Mike Short.
Thank you Mike and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
For the third quarter we reported net income from continuing operations of $82 million or $0.66 per share versus $71 million or $0.48 per share during the third quarter of 2011 a 38% improvement on a per share basis.
There were no adjustments to net income in either period.
In the third quarter revenue increased $427 million or 12% compared to the prior year and gross profit improved by $47 million or 8%.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross profit was 70% for the quarter which represents 150 basis point improvement compared to the year-ago period.
Our improved operating leverage reflects our disciplined expense management long-term investments in centralized processes and improve productivity across our operations.
This month we completed the rollout of the extended design in our Shared Service Center.
Our Shared Service Center is now responsible for end-to-end deal processing for all of our stores.
In the extended design we've increased automation which has resulted in improved transparency greater transaction efficiency and lower store accounting costs.
I'd like to thank all of the associates involved in this multiyear project for their hard working and dedication.
We continue to focus on initiatives at the SSC and across our stores to drive further cost savings for AutoNation and streamlining additional processes.
Returning to third quarter results net new vehicle floorplan was a benefit of $7.9 million an improvement of $1.3 million from the third quarter of 2011 primarily due to higher floorplan assistance driven by higher new vehicle sales volumes.
Floorplan debt was approximately $2.2 billion at quarter end an increase of approximately $80 million from June 30 2012 in line with inventory levels.
Non-vehicle interest expense was $22.2 million for the quarter an increase of $5.8 million compared to the $16.4 million in the third quarter of 2011 due to higher debt balances.
We $395 million of outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility at the end of September.
And on September 30 our non-vehicle debt balance was $1.9 billion an increase of $405 million compared to September 30 2011.
Provision for income tax in the quarter was $51 million or 38.2%.
There were no share repurchases during the third quarter.
AutoNation has $368 million remaining board authorization for share repurchase.
As of September 30 there were 121.7 million shares outstanding.
This does not include the dilutive impact of stock options which was approximately 2 million shares in the third quarter of 2012.
Our leverage ratio as of September 30 was 2.74x or 2.47x on a net-debt basis compared to the covenant limit of 3.75x.
Capital expenditures were $45 million for the quarter.
We expect CapEx to be approximately $155 million for the year.
Capital expenditures are on an accrual basis excluding operating lease buyouts and related asset sales.
Our quarter end cash balance was approximately $100 million which combined with our additional borrowing capacity resulted in total liquidity of approximately $890 million at the end of September.
Our strong cash flow generation solid balance sheet and lean cost structure position us to continue to invest in our business.
Now let me turn you over to our President Chief Operating Officer Mike Maroone.
Thanks Mike and good morning.
In the third quarter we delivered growth in revenue and gross profit for all sectors of our business: New and used vehicles Customer Care and finance and insurance as well as record finance and insurance gross profit for vehicle retail strong operating margin of 4.2% and record third quarter earnings per share.
We're pleased with our performance in what continues to be an improving auto retail environment.
The remainder of my comments will be on a same-store basis compared to the period a year ago unless noted otherwise.
AutoNation retailed 68 250 new vehicles in the third quarter an increase of nearly 12 000 vehicles or 21% comparing favorably to industry retail sales that improved 15% in the quarter according to CNW Research.
We saw growth across all 3 segments.
Normalized inventories contributed to the Import segment recording the largest unit gain of 35% on a total store basis.
Premium Luxury new vehicle unit sales were up 11% and the Domestic segment increased 9%.
Additional contributing factors across all 3 segments were replacement demand steady introduction of new products strong availability of financing in the prime near-prime and sub-prime markets.
Relative to geography it was a positive story overall for all of our core markets.
In particular we saw a continued solid growth year-over-year in California Texas Florida and Colorado.
Las Vegas and Phoenix were also strong markets in the quarter.
On a same-store basis our new vehicle volume was up 28% in California 26% in Colorado 23% in Texas and 17% in Florida.
At $2.2 billion new vehicle revenue increased $357 million or 19%.
Revenue per vehicle retailed was 32 800 down $618 or 2% compared to a year ago.
These normalized inventories drove a mix shift towards the Import segment which has the lowest selling price of the segments.
Revenue per vehicle retail was flat when compared sequentially to the second quarter of this year.
Gross profit per new vehicle retailed of $2 119 that was down $335 or 14%.
And at 6.5% new vehicle gross profit as a percent of revenue declined 80 basis points.
Nearly all of the margin compression was in the Import segment where gross profit was extremely higher a year ago given the shortage of product at that time.
When compared sequentially new vehicle gross profit as a percent of revenue was off just 10 basis points and improved 20 basis points compared to the pre-disruption third quarter of 2010.
At September 30 our new vehicle day supply was 58 days or 51 700 units this compares to 45 days and 33 900 units a year ago and 60 days or 49 200 units at June 30.
We continue to build our inventory and are in good shape for year end sales events particularly in the Premium Luxury segment.
Turning to used vehicles.
In the quarter we retailed 45 400 used vehicles an increase of 1 200 vehicles or 3%.
Same-store retail used vehicle revenue of $809 million increased $29 million or 4% year-over-year.
Revenue per used vehicle retailed increased $160 or 1% to 17 800.
Same-store retail used vehicle gross profit of $72 million was up $5 million or 7% and gross profit per vehicle retailed increased $65 or 4% to $1 589.
Gross profit as a percent of revenue for used vehicles increased 30 basis points to 8.9%.
At September 30 our used vehicle days supply was 29 days compared to 30 days a year ago.
Given the extremely tight supply of low mileage late-model used vehicles the price gap between these models and new vehicles has narrowed.
This along with credit availability low interest rates incentives and improved vehicle content has shifted customers to new vehicles.
We also noted in the quarter that percentage of our trades with higher mileage continues to grow.
Next Customer Care or service parts and collision.
Their same-store revenue increased $17 million or 3% to $595 million with improvement across the board in internal warranty customer pay collision and wholesale parts.
Customer Care gross profit of $251 million increased $9 million or 4% compared to the quarter a year ago.
Strong contributors were internal driven by increased vehicle sales and warranty gross which grew 4% in the quarter.
I'll note that this was the ninth consecutive quarter of year-over-year gains in customer pay gross as well as revenue.
Overall Customer Care gross profit as a percent of revenue improved 30 basis points to 42.2%.
We remain keenly focused on growing our Customer Care business and customer retention through initiatives that include a new field support structure and technology enhancements that will modernize and significantly improve the customer experience.
We're very pleased with our performance in the quarter and look forward to the units in operation base beginning to grow again in 2013.
Our finance and insurance team delivered a record same-store gross profit per vehicle retail of $1 290 in the quarter an increase of $77 or 6%.
Total F&amp;I gross profit of $147 million increased $25 million or 20% compared to a year ago.
Our preferred lender network OEM service contract alliances strong product penetration store level execution continue to drive our outstanding F&amp;I performance.
I'm pleased to share that we finalized agreements in the third quarter for 2 new manufacture open points.
The first is a Audi store in Orlando Florida and the other is a Maserati store in San Jose California.
Both are targeted to open in late 2013.
We're very excited about each of these opportunities which are located in markets where we already have critical mass and offer additional growth in the Premium Luxury segment.
At the end of the third quarter our store portfolio stood at 215 stores 261 franchises representing 32 brands in 15 states.
As always we continue to actively pursue acquisition opportunities that meet our market brand and a return on investment criteria.
Our drive for productivity is really paying off as we have delivered year-over-year revenue growth of 12% with a headcount increase of just 2%.
We continue to make significant investments in technology to aid this improvement in productivity as well as to provide customers with a better buying and ownership experience.
In summary we're pleased with our performance in the quarter and see even more opportunity going forward in 2013.
We're grateful for the outstanding efforts of our 20 000 associates.
We thank them for their commitment to delivering memorable experience for our customers.
With that I'll turn it back to Mike Jackson.
Great.
We'll be happy to take your questions now.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is coming from John Murphy Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> A question on capital allocation here.
I mean as you guys are generating pretty strong cash flow continuously here you slowed down on the share buybacks.
I'm just wondering where that cash ultimately will go or if we just saw a pause in this quarter and the share buybacks will pick back up.
And also would you consider a dividend in the future if you don't think share buybacks are that attractive? John it's Mike Short.
I would say just to start off the discussion on capital allocation.
Our priorities really haven't changed in a very very long time.
We've been consistently focused on maintaining a strong balance sheet is our first priority.
After that we use our capital to make sure that our capital expenditures are funding our stores so that they stand tall and ready to serve our customers.
And then beyond that we really do look opportunistically across all opportunities that we can evaluate to create shareholder value.
As an example of that you're familiar with our share repurchase history and we brought back over 400 million shares since 1999 at an average price of below $17.
So we are disciplined and patient and to that point with regard to future capital allocation it will continue to be on an opportunistic basis with the sole goal of driving shareholder value going forward.
If that happens to be continued share repurchase or acquisitions or additional capital investments in technology those are all great options for us.
Again just because we haven't done a dividend in the past that doesn't mean we won't do one in the future.
We again if we come to the conclusion that that's the best way to create shareholder value then that would obviously be something that we'd be interested in looking at.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But if we look at the quarter in stock in the mid-40s with no buybacks I mean that's a fairly strong statement given your track record of buying back stock aggressively in the past.
I'm just trying to understand I mean is this the kind of thing where if we stayed in the mid-40s tax policy didn't change going forward? Who knows exactly what's going to happen with the election in the fiscal cliff in tax rates on dividends at all next year.
But if we saw a stock that stayed in the mid-40s and you didn't buy back stock in this quarter it seems like you might be a little bit more inclined to pay a dividend than  you have historically.
I mean is that a correct interpretation? I'm just...
John this is Mike Jackson.
I think the keyword -- I think Mike Short laid it out very well.
The hallmarks of the journey strong balance sheet best in our stores and then opportunistic.
And there's been price points at certain times.
You could look at where we were very low at a certain price point didn't buy shares.
And then in another quarter at that exact same price we bought quite a bit.
So it's opportunistic it changes as we go forward and I can't tell you what's going to happen.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That is helpful.
Second question on these average transaction prices.
It sounds like they came down a bit because of mix.
I'm just curious if you are seeing anything else out there as far as the pricing environment getting tougher as far as more incentives or gross give backs.
I'm just trying to make sure that this really is just a mix impact and there's nothing else underlying here going on as far as pricing deteriorating.
John it's Mike Maroone.
I think it is mix-driven.
Obviously with the growth in the Import segment those are our lower priced vehicle.
But I wouldn't read anything further into it.
In terms of the incentives it appears to be a pretty rational situation right now with a pretty good supply-and-demand balance.
I don't anticipate aggressive incentives across the board although certainly in the fourth quarter I think you'll see the luxury business pick up.
There's much greater availability and I assume it's going to be a very competitive environment.
But in general I think the rational nature of incentives will continue.
Research Division</strong> And then just lastly you guys highlighted financing is getting much closer to normal through the spectrum of credit to your consumers.
I'm just curious how much further do you think that has to go and sort of secondarily where you think we are on leasing right now in returning to sort of a more normal level in the low-20% range for the industry and if that might be another opportunity in addition to credit easing a bit here to really help sales recover.
John this is Mike Jackson.
I think we have normal credit across the entire spectrum.
I would say the only thing that is different than if I go back to '05 '06 '07 using home equity as a piggy bank to make down payments on a car that game is over.
So the consumers had to save up for the down payment they can't get it from someplace else.
And as far as in the past we saw leasing at a much higher rate.
That was a distortion created by incentives and subsidies it was not the natural market.
So I think the market the finance availability at the moment is normal balanced appropriate.
The next question is coming from Simeon Gutman Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of questions on the used car business.
I think new vehicle sales are outpacing used at least industry-wise and as we march back towards normalization I expect that will probably continue.
And so as we get closer to those older run rates of new car sales the commitment down the road to used I realize that the business has been a lot better more focused on used.
Will there be a capacity or constraint issue on your lots? Meaning trading new for used at that point and will that be less of a focus on used when we get down to that point? It's Mike Maroone.
I think used is always going to be a core part of our business and it's certainly something we're looking to increase our capabilities.
Now the current situation really has a limited amount of late-model low-mileage vehicles.
But they seem to be in 2 buckets.
That limited amount and then there's a high number of high-mileage vehicles.
That's really due to the pent-up demand.
I think over time the used business will stabilize and I think there's plenty of opportunity for us there.
I don't see any constraints as the units in operation come back and more vehicles come off lease I think the supply will become more normalized.
But we do we think there's great opportunity in the used vehicle side.
Research Division</strong> But there's no more -- I mean the priority to sell more new let's say the new selling rates goes up to $17 million.
Just from a physical capacity standpoint you'll still be able to source and emphasize the used business as much or will the new take more precedent at that point? No.
I think the used business has got great opportunities.
As we move back to 16 million 17 million we'll see a lot more trades and I think there's still plenty of opportunity there.
There's no capacity constraint.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second piece relating to price.
When we've had low supply and we clearly moved up in price quite a bit now.
As you mentioned the spread is somewhat narrow.
How do you think the pricing evolves? I guess there could be 2 camps where you see a slow and steady moderation or just less growth.
Or you can see something more sharply correct as new outpaces? I'm curious if you have any thoughts there.
I think prices will moderate as supply gets back to more normalized level.
I think that the prices are very high on low-mileage products and both the incentives and the low interest rate environment certainly are skewing buyers today to new.
But we've seen this phenomenon before and it all seems to even out over time but I think there will be some moderation as supply is restored.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess any thoughts on that pace of that moderation? I know it's hard to predict and I think some of it depends on the interplay of growth of new but just curious if it can go more for soft landing or hard landing with respect to prices.
Well I think it's going to be a soft landing and I do think that in late 2013 you'll see more vehicles coming off lease and '14 will get even better.
So I think there will be more supply in '13 and '14.
The next question is coming from Patrick Archambault Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Actually I wanted to follow up just on that question what Simeon was asking about here.
What specifically I mean it sounds like you think there's a number of conditions that will obviously help the used business regain growth.
But maybe you could just outline again some of the things specifically that you guys think you can do to improve your share in that market because it feels like there is some low-hanging fruit that you guys could address to grow.
It's Mike Maroone.
I definitely think there's opportunity for us.
In the execution point of view we have opened up a large number of value vehicle outlets and we need to be sure that we continue to stock those outlets aggressively and provide customers real choice.
Certainly there's some adjustments going on from a customer point of view in terms of seeing used vehicles with much higher mileage than they're accustomed to.
But I think we're going to have to be creative and keep our costs of reconditioning down and continue to try and execute at a higher level.
And Certainly in the digital world there's plenty of opportunity and we're going to aggressively go after it.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just on kind of getting back to the topic of new margins.
I mean you said that the mix it sounds -- excuse me the margin are being impacted by the mix of vehicles.
I mean not to give guidance or anything like that but how do you see the fourth quarter playing out? One of your competitors was on the call saying it might be similar because I guess some of the mix pressures that were in Q3 may persist in Q4 and potentially it's a very competitive environment.
Do you kind of agree with that assessment from a market-wide perspective? This is Mike Jackson.
We had an increase in new vehicle margins with the extreme shortages of a year ago.
That has now normalized back to where they were before the shortages and we'll probably have a mix that's favorable on margins in the fourth quarter because the fourth quarter is usually very strong on Premium Luxury.
So you'll probably see $100 sequential improvement in margins in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And just to make sure I have it right.
I mean it sounds like companies like Honda have put big stair steps and things like that.
I mean is that something that you feel blending into all of your end brands hasn't really been that impactful it's really just been mix or has there been some aggressive activity that you feel has maybe just gotten better by the end of the quarter? Well I think that certainly the volume-based incentives are a factor.
I think when you look at our 21% improvement in new vehicles you can see that we aggressively went after those targets in most cases achieve that target.
But I think going back to Mike Jackson's comment I think that current margins are relatively normal when you compare to a pre-disruption level.
I think the opportunity in the short term is going to be on Premium Luxury.
Next question is coming from Ravi Shanker Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Can you just talk a little bit more about the potential leverage you have on SG&amp;A? I mean you guys have addressed that a little bit on this call but I would have expected to see maybe a little more traction this quarter especially compared to what some of the other dealers are seeing.
Again any special items you point out and where do you think SG&amp;A can go over time? Well Ravi what I think I said in the past and actually played out in this quarter as well is that we target having about 50% of the incremental gross profit flow through the operating income line for SG&amp;A leverage.
I don't see any reason to change that at this point.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And also there's a fairly bullish thesis around housing in pretty much in many sectors.
Given the geographic markets in which you are playing how do you see that playing out over 2013 and do you think that's going to be particularly beneficial for both the auto as well as you guys? This is Mike Jackson.
When I talk about the journey back to 16 million 17 million units a year for the auto industry I said the foundation in the first years will be driven by replacement need.
That's the phase we're in right now then the next phase we'll hand off to housing coming back in and being supportive of the economy and of truck sales.
And we're happy to say that we see signs of stability in all of our housing markets and it looks like an improved housing market is for real this time and will be a benefit over the next several years.
And then finally I always called out that we do need a real economic recovery that creates jobs to make it all the way to 16 million 17 million units.
That's open to question at the moment with GDP only growing expected 1.5% this year.
So we need a much more robust economy to make it all the way to 16 million 17 million.
But if I look at the next year or 2 it will be replacement need and the recovering of the housing have pretty much put in place that we'll have improvement.
We'll wait till after the year closes to talk about exactly how much of that will be next year.
Then ultimately we do need a better economic environment.
The next question is coming from Brett Hoselton of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> F&amp;I and it's interesting just when I think that you can't do a better job on F&amp;I you performed even better.
And so my question to you is at $1 290 per unit do you think there's some additional upside there? Another $50 or something on those lines or do you kind of feel like this is a level that I think is a very good level and sustainable over the next year or 2 or so? Mike Maroone.
When we look at the bandwidth among our stores and our regions we think there's still plenty of opportunity.
I don't want to predict how high it could go but I think as long as you execute the F&amp;I processes the way we're training people which is with the right speed the right transparency the right understanding with a focus on value-added products I think there is more upside opportunity.
And we have stores and regions that are hitting well above the average just by definition.
And I think we'll continue to make improvement in that part of the business.
Research Division</strong> And then I don't know if you're prepared to talk about 2013 yet but do you have any sense or feeling as to where you think the [indiscernible] might be in 2013 do you have any opinion here? Mike Jackson.
I think we're going to hold that till January what our outlook is.
We have a couple of momentous events between now and then namely the election of the President of the United States and what's the grand bargain going to be around the fiscal cliff.
And I think it will prudent to see how they play out before we put a forecast out there for industry sales next year.
I've called out at the beginning of the year a risk in the fourth quarter of disruption in the industry sales around the election and the fiscal cliff.
We're seeing no sign of it.
It's business as usual at the store level.
The mindset of the consumer is regardless of who's elected President of the United States there will be some sort of grand bargain around the fiscal cliff that the consequences are so huge of going over it that somehow someway the Republicans and Democrats will shake hands and there will be a grand bargain.
So that's what we see right now.
Now as we get closer to it the situation can change.
But I think it will be prudent to see how it all plays out before we put a number out for next year.
The next question is coming from Rod Lache Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> It's Dan Galves in for Rod.
Just wanted to -- wondering if you could give us a little more color on the parts and service business.
I think you said that the internal segment was a pretty big grower in the quarter.
Is that mostly reconditioning costs on used vehicles? Are you -- just kind of give us a sense of are you spending more on used vehicles? Have you figured out a way to kind of recoup or invest more in used vehicles and get that back on the sales side? It's Mike Maroone Dan.
It clearly -- internal is directly tied to vehicle sales and it's both for new and used vehicles.
On the used vehicle side the higher mileage older vehicles are requiring more reconditioning.
So I think there's slightly more reconditioning there than normal.
Across the whole Customer Care business we saw growth across all parts of the business.
Customer-pay basis warranty internal collision we saw a nice growth in spite of the fact that we had one less selling day in the quarter versus the last year.
So we're optimistic about that business.
We've had 9 consecutive quarters of growth in our customer pay service business and believe with the units in operation bottoming out this year that we will see a growth in the units in operation and a lot of progress in that business which is a nice high-margin business for us.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's really good performance.
What do you attribute on the warranty growth in the quarter because I know at least one of your competitors had another decline in warranty.
It's generally focused on select brands and the recalls certainly influence it.
One of the other things that influenced it is that some of the manufacturers offered prepaid maintenance as part of the vehicle purchase.
That goes in that segment as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just one additional.
I wonder if you could talk a little bit about the acquisition environment and the pipeline and whether possibly the reduction in share buybacks is to maintain more flexibility for acquisitions? This is Mike Jackson.
There's very active discussions in the acquisition market.
There is definitely demographically backlog of sellers.
I would say there's still a price gap that has yet to be bridged.
And whether it will be bridged or not be bridged remains to be seen.
As you know us we'll pay a fair price but we're very disciplined.
And so we're never afraid to walk from the table.
On the other hand if we see a strategic fit at the appropriate price we're not afraid to step up and make the deal.
So I can't -- I hate to use the word opportunistic meaning it's unpredict -- we are unpredictable if you go back and look at the record we've had periods where we've done significant acquisitions and we've had periods before where we did no share repurchase.
And then going forward we get quiet on acquisitions do a lot of share repurchase.
So it really depends on multiple factors.
It's not something you can just walk into a model and there it is.
We're constantly weighing where the capital will produce the greatest return for us on the long term.
And I could well be sitting here in the future talking to you about share repurchase or that we did a lot of acquisitions.
So I don't know the answer it's not that I'm keeping it from you but I can tell you there's lots of discussion on the acquisitions side there are sellers there is a gap on price.
I don't know whether it will be bridged and we still view share repurchase opportunistically.
The next question is coming from Colin Langan UBS.
Research Division</strong> I thought -- maybe I misheard earlier I thought that current new margins are normal.
I'm just trying to tie that back with your -- you had a 7.3% margin last year for the full year and then you had 6.5% this quarter.
I think you mentioned Luxury mix maybe will improve in the fourth quarter.
But I mean how should we think about where long-term new margins should go? I mean can they get back to that 7%-type level? Well when I say back to normal you have to go back to 2010.
2011 was the abnormal year with some of it still carrying over into this year.
Short you have a point of comparison.
If you have another question we'll check that number for you.
[indiscernible] Research Division</strong> Sure.
I guess while you're looking at it any color on -- I'm trying to get a sense on SG&amp;A leverage going forward.
What is the mix currently of your fixed and variable portions of the SG&amp;A? It's about 50-50 Colin.
Okay Colin well if you don't have another question we'll get back to you before we break.
Research Division</strong> I just have one quick last one.
Just a thing about leverage I noticed it improved pretty bit sequentially obviously from good cash flow.
I mean is 3 times what it was last quarter? Is that sort of as high as you want to go? I know you have some room on your covenant or is it just -- is that part of -- how do you think about what the right level of  leverage with business is? Colin I hate to beat the drum again but we do think of it a little bit opportunistically.
We love the idea of having a very strong balance sheet and so we obviously focus on that very significantly.
But we're not afraid to use our balance sheet to make the appropriate investments if they drive shareholder value.
And I think we've demonstrated that over the years that we're willing to take on leverage if we can create value and at times when there's not a clear way to deploy capital opportunistically then we're happy to be patient and let it recharge the balance sheet.
And I think we've gotten credit from the rating agencies and others for managing capital that way over a long period of time.
So there is no specific line in the sand in terms of leverage ratio other than in light of the overall capital allocation priorities that I laid out a second ago.
Colin it's Mike Maroone.
On the margin question When we go back and Mike Jackson talked about looking at pre-disruption our margins back in -- for new vehicles back in Q3 of 2010 were 6.3%.
They're 6.5% this quarter.
So from a basis points they're stable looking over that 2-year period and of course we had the blip in 2011 that was created by the import product shortage.
When we looked at the other 2 segments that were not as impacted the Domestic and Premium Luxury they were almost spot on where we were 2 years ago.
So we do believe it's a normalized environment although an increased or change in mix toward Premium Luxury could push the margins even higher.
Last question please.
That is coming from Matt Nemer Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is Josh Dolin on for Matt.
In the last call you hinted at a premium value outlet that you were starting to create and work on.
Can we get an update on what's going on there and where you think that might ultimately go especially as you look at off-lease volumes increasing dramatically at the end of 2013 into 2014? Matt it's Mike Maroone.
We have one of those opened and we're still in the process of validating that concept.
It really requires a critical mass in Premium Luxury stores around it.
And so far we're pleased with the results.
Again there are Premium Luxury vehicles just like non-luxury that have high mileage and have been in service a lot longer.
And there seems to be a market for it.
But I think it's too early to speak to a rollout.
So we've got 28 of the vehicle value outlets and only one of the premium one at this point in time.
Thank you everyone for joining us today.
This will conclude today's conference.
All parties may disconnect.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to AutoNation's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Cheryl Scully Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations for AutoNation.
Ma'am you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to AutoNation's fourth quarter and full year 2012 conference call and webcast.
Leading our call today will be Mike Jackson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mike Maroone our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Short our Chief Financial Officer.
Following their remarks we will open up the call for questions.
Kate Keyser-Pearlman and I will also be available by phone following the call to address any additional questions that you may have.
Before we begin let me read our brief statement regarding forward-looking comments and the use of non-GAAP financial measures.
Certain statements and information on this call will constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve risks which may cause the actual results or performance to differ materially from expectations.
Additional discussions of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are contained in our SEC filings.
Certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules will be discussed on this call.
Reconciliations are provided in our press release which is available on our website at investors.autonation.com.
And now I'll turn the call over to AutoNation's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mike Jackson.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
I'm joining the call from New York where today AutoNation announced the rebranding of 210 franchises under a single AutoNation name.
The launch of the AutoNation brand unifies us under 1 flag AutoNation rather than as local market brands.
The coast-to-coast rollout of AutoNation brand involves 23 manufacturer brands and 210 of their franchises.
It will begin tomorrow February 1 in South Florida and will be completed in June.
We have worked to provide a peerless customer experience across the enterprise.
AutoNation is a brand that stands for leadership transparency and peerless customer care.
This is an incredibly important and proud moment for us as a company and has the full support of our manufacturer partners who approved the change to the AutoNation brand.
Our associates are thrilled and have fully embraced this endeavor.
Since my arrival we have laid the foundation for this transition by investing more than $3.7 billion in new and upgraded facilities developing best practices in our stores and the Shared Service Center and completing strategic acquisitions across the country while focusing on the customer as our #1 priority.
Today we also reported an all-time record adjusted quarterly EPS from continuing operations of $0.67 for the fourth quarter a 31% increase on a per share basis as compared to $0.51 for the same period in the prior year.
Fourth quarter 2012 revenue totaled $4.2 billion an increase of 13% driven primarily by stronger retail new vehicle unit sales.
We also reported an increase of 18% in operating income to $169 million.
In the fourth quarter total U.S.
industry new vehicle retail sales increased 13% based on CNW Research data.
In comparison during the same period AutoNation's new vehicle unit sales increased 18% or 17% on a same-store basis.
For the full year adjusted EPS from continuing operations of $2.54 was a record also up 31% over prior year.
Revenue for the full year was $15.7 billion up 13% over prior year.
2012 also marked the second consecutive year of over 30% year-over-year growth in EPS from continuing operations.
Our planning assumption for 2013 industry new vehicle unit sales is mid-15 million units which would be a strong improvement over 2012 when new vehicle sales reached 14.5 million units.
We believe that replacement demand attractive new products and strong consumer credit will continue to support sales and the improving housing market will also support sales.
I would point out that even though new vehicle buying is recovering from the depression levels of the past few years our Customer Care and used vehicle businesses which represent over half of our gross profit are only beginning to recover in 2013.
The auto retail recovery still has many years to run and I remain as optimistic as ever.
I'll now turn the call back to Fort Lauderdale and our Chief Financial Officer Mike Short.
Thank you Mike and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
For the fourth quarter we reported net income from continuing operations of $83 million or $0.67 per share versus adjusted net income of $71 million or $0.51 per share during the fourth quarter of 2011 a 31% improvement on a per share basis.
There were no adjustments to net income in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Adjustments to net income in prior periods are included in the reconciliations provided in our press release.
In the fourth quarter revenue increased $495 million or 13% compared to the prior year and gross profit improved by $54 million or 9%.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross profit was 69.9% for the quarter which represents 140 basis point improvement compared to the year ago period.
Our improved operating leverage continues to reflect our lean cost structure and increased productivity in our stores.
As part of our AutoNation branding initiative we will incur approximately $18 million of incremental non-recurring SG&amp;A expenses or about $0.09 per share primarily in the first half of the year.
While we would expect a short term impact to our operating leverage from these investments it remains our long-term objective to operate below 70%.
Returning to fourth quarter results net new vehicle floorplan was a benefit of $6.9 million an improvement of $0.9 million from the fourth quarter of 2011 due to higher floorplan assistance driven by higher new vehicle sales volumes as well as lower floorplan interest rates.
Floorplan debt increased approximately $340 million in the fourth quarter to $2.5 billion at year-end as we increased our inventory levels in line with increasing sales volumes.
Non-vehicle interest expense was $21.7 million for the quarter an increase of $4.3 million compared to $17.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 due to higher debt balances.
At the end of December we had $540 million of outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility and total non-vehicle debt balance of $2.1 billion.
This was an increase of approximately $200 million compared to September 30 2012 primarily used to fund our acquisitions in the fourth quarter.
The provision for income tax in the quarter was $52 million or 38.6%.
For the full year 2012 we repurchased 16.6 million shares for $581 million at an average price of $34.89 per share.
From October 1 2012 through January 30 2013 we repurchased 1.3 million shares for $51.2 million at an average price of $39.22 per share.
AutoNation has $319 million remaining board authorization for share repurchase.
As of January 30 there were approximately 120 million -- excuse me 121 million shares outstanding.
This does not include the dilutive impact of stock options.
Our leverage ratio at year-end was 2.82x or 2.60x on a net debt basis including used floorplan availability compared to the covenant limit of 3.75x.
Capital expenditures were $57 million for the quarter and $153 million for the full year 2012.
Capital expenditures are on an accrual basis excluding operating lease buyouts and related asset sales.
Our quarter-end cash balance was approximately $70 million which combined with our additional borrowing capacity resulted in total liquidity of approximately $770 million at the end of December.
We are well positioned to continue to maximize the value of the company and shareholder returns through our robust cash flow generation healthy balance sheet and disciplined expense management.
Now let me turn you over to our President and Chief Operating Officer Mike Maroone.
Thanks Mike and good morning.
I'll begin my comments today by sharing what an honor it is for us to unite our 210 domestic and import franchises under 1 flag as AutoNation from coast-to-coast.
Our company has worked diligently since our founding 16 years ago to build an auto retail brand and the timing is perfect for this important change.
Our stores will provide a peerless shopping experience across vehicle brands and will place emphasis on putting the customers' needs first.
With a unified brand comes great potential.
It will raise awareness of AutoNation as a brand and is an important component of enhancing our online presence in the digital age.
Our associates are excited about the rebranding and as a company we're excited about the opportunities this will afford us.
AutoNation is America's largest auto retailer and every associate stands ready to deliver on our mission to be America's best place to buy and service cars and trucks.
Now let's get to the results.
I am pleased to share that in the fourth quarter and for the full year 2012 AutoNation delivered growth in revenue and gross profit across all sectors of our business new and used vehicles Customer Care and finance and insurance.
We also delivered record adjusted earnings per share for both periods and a strong operating margin of 4% in the fourth quarter and 4.1% for the full year.
We believe this performance illustrates that our business model and sharp focusing on delivering a first-class customer experience positions us well for the continuing auto retail recovery.
Additionally we completed the acquisition of 6 high-performing stores in Texas in the quarter which I'll expand on later in my remarks.
As I continue my comments will be on a same-store basis and compared to the period a year ago unless noted otherwise.
AutoNation retailed 70 600 new vehicles in the fourth quarter an increase of 10 400 vehicles or 17% comparing favorably to industry retail sales that improved 13% in the quarter according to CNW Research.
Key drivers include: pent up replacement demand exciting new product introductions that deliver great fuel economy and strong retail financing availability.
I'll note that while we saw growth in new unit sales across all 3 segments normalized inventories continue to be a factor in the Import segment which recorded the largest gain of 24% on a total store basis.
Premium Luxury new vehicle unit sales were up a robust 20% and the Domestic segment increased 9%.
On a same-store basis our new vehicle volume was up 29% in California 23% in Colorado 18% in Texas and 14% in Florida.
At $2.5 billion new vehicle revenue increased $379 million or 18%.
Revenue per vehicle retailed increased $238 or 1% to $34 888.
New vehicle gross profit of $155 million was up $7 million or 5% in the quarter.
Gross profit for new vehicle retailed of $2 188 was off $263 or 11% and at 6.3% new vehicle gross profit as a percent of revenue declined 80 basis points.
Margin pressure was driven in part by the Import segment where gross profit was abnormally high a year ago given the shortage of product at that time and also by a mix shift within the Premium Luxury segment.
At December 31 our new vehicle day supply was 55 days or 58 800 units.
This compares to 50 days and 43 900 units a year ago.
We continue to aggressively build our inventories to take advantage of the strong new vehicle market and low-cost floorplan financing.
In the quarter we retailed 42 700 used vehicles an increase of 765 vehicles or 2%.
Same-store retail used vehicle revenue of $783 million increased $30 million or 4% year-over-year.
Revenue per used vehicle retailed increased $374 or 2% to $18 342.
Same-store retail used vehicle gross profit of $67 million was up $5 million or 8% and gross profit per vehicle -- per used vehicle retailed increased $86 or 6% to $1 571.
Gross profit as a percent of revenue for used vehicles increased 30 basis points to 8.6%.
At December 31 our used vehicle day supply was 35 days compared to 31 days a year ago.
Next Customer Care or service parts and collision where same store revenue increased $26 million or 4% to $599 million with growth in internal warranty wholesale parts and collision.
Customer Care gross profit of $252 million increased $14 million or 6% compared to the quarter a year ago.
Strong contributors were internal driven by increased vehicle sales and warranty gross which grew 13% in the quarter.
Customer pay gross increased for the 10th consecutive quarter.
Overall Customer Care gross profit as a percent of revenue improved 50 basis points to 42.1%.
We're very pleased with the momentum of our Customer Care business and believe we are well positioned to capitalize as the units and operation base begins to grow again this year.
Turning to finance and insurance.
Our preferred lender network OEM service contract alliances strong product penetration and store level execution continue to drive outstanding performance.
In the quarter our finance and insurance team once again delivered a record same-store gross profit per vehicle retailed of $1 307 an increase of $84 or 7%.
Total F&amp;I gross profit of $148 million increased $23 million or 19% compared to a year ago.
For the full year same-store gross profit per vehicle retailed was an impressive $1 275 per vehicle an increase of $74 or 6% compared to the full year 2011.
As I mentioned earlier in the fourth quarter we completed the acquisition of 6 great stores in our high-performing markets of Dallas and Houston.
5 stores from the Dallas area are Boardwalk Porsche Boardwalk Audi Boardwalk VW Park Cities VW and McKinney VW.
And the sixth store Spring Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram is in the Houston area.
These acquisitions are a great example of our continued focus on building density within our existing markets.
I'll also note that nationally for their brands Spring Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram ranks in the top 5 Boardwalk Porsche in the top 10 and Boardwalk Audi is in the top 20 of their respective brands.
The acquisitions and other activity in the quarter brought our store portfolio at the end of the year to 221 stores and 265 franchises representing 32 brands in 15 states.
As always we continue to actively pursue acquisition opportunities that meet our market brand and return on investment criteria.
As I wrap up I'll share that we're looking forward to the customer experience and associate productivity enhancements driven by technology and training investments that will be brought to life at AutoNation this year.
We are also extremely excited about uniting our domestic and import franchises under 1 flag as AutoNation.
I'd like to thank every AutoNation associate for their commitment and dedication to our company as well as thanking them in advance for serving as AutoNation brand ambassadors by delivering first-class experiences to our customers 1 customer at a time every time.
With that I'll turn it over to Mike Jackson.
Thank you Michael.
On a personal note announcing today that we have unified under 1 flag AutoNation is a major milestone for our customers associates manufacturer partners and shareholders.
It's something Mike and I envisioned when we partnered 13 years ago to lead AutoNation.
Today is a historic moment for auto retail and under our new AutoNation flag we will continue to provide a peerless customer experience both in our stores and online.
Thank you and we will now take questions.
First up is Mr.
Murphy.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Elizabeth Lane on for John.
It seems like the new branding strategy could potentially mean more consistent marketing across the various markets and are there current plans to consolidate advertising with some kind of national campaign? And then what degree of cost savings could potentially come from the move towards one company brand? Yes.
This is Mike Jackson.
We anticipating this had already pretty much moved to common themes in our communications like the "who are you going to call" theme runs in all 15 markets today.
And we felt by having those as themes established in all 15 markets then we launched the AutoNation brand we'll just keep the same theme and put in AutoNation.
So we've already achieved that and will continue it.
Obviously though there is tremendous efficiency to move it to one unified brand both on the cost side and on the impact side.
I'll also tell you though the biggest opportunity that we see and probably the tipping point to finally take this step is the opportunities that are in digital.
As we've discussed we've made -- we're making a -- we view our foundation for digital as established we're at an inflection point we're investing heavily in that.
And all our calculations show that as we make this bet on digital that the payoff can be much bigger with 1 brand from coast-to-coast namely AutoNation.
So the benefits just go on and on and there's no question year after year it'll just get stronger and stronger.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And you mentioned that the automakers are onboard with the new branding strategy.
Are the OEMs generally growing more comfortable with large partners like AutoNation and could that open up more acquisition opportunities? Obviously we have an outstanding relationship with the manufacturers based on partnership trust and mutual respect or they never would have approved this step.
And on naming the manufacturers have tremendous power because we need their affirmative consent to the states in order to get our license.
So it's not like you can do this and then fight about it.
We need their affirmative consent.
And they as we discussed this with them they set very high standards that would have to be met and that's understandable and I'm very proud to say that AutoNation from coast-to-coast has met and exceeded all those standards.
So our relationships with the manufacturers are stronger than ever.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one quick question on January.
Did you see any impact on sales from the expiration of the payroll tax cut and consumers seeing a bit less in their paychecks this month? Or did it seem like it was still a pretty healthy month of sales? The month obviously not over.
Today's the last day but we did have concerns considering December was such a strong close would there be a lull or a hangover and I'm very happy to report that January was like a sprinter out of the starting blocks.
And we will report our new vehicle sales results on Monday but I expect them to be up 15% to 20%.
The next question is coming from Mr.
Rick Nelson of Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the rebranding.
I'm curious if you're planning to pull the regional name off the stores and replace them with AutoNation? Or if you would add the AutoNation? That's a very good question and there is some confusion about that Rick so let me be clear.
Let's take South Florida which will be the first market to change tomorrow.
Now mind you Maroone is a fantastic local market name.
It's a -- for 58 years vehicles have been sold under the Maroone name.
Our associates when they go home today the name Maroone will be on the dealership.
When they go back to work tomorrow the Maroone name is gone and AutoNation has replaced it.
This is a full scale replacement.
The Maroone name disappears never to be seen again unless one of Mike's grandchildren opens a dealership let's say in Buffalo something like that.
But the AutoNation the Maroone name comes down and AutoNation goes up.
So if it was Maroone of Pembroke Pines it now becomes AutoNation of Pembroke Pines.
And that will continue across the country being fully completed by June.
We will have -- and this is the reason for an incremental surge in marketing communication spend of $18 million.
That is non-recurring that is simply dedicated to educating the marketplace that the Maroone name is now AutoNation.
And that the go name is now AutoNation and that the power name is now AutoNation.
We think that is important to do to bridge the transition as these names go away.
We did not want to straddle the fence and mix apples and oranges.
We're ready for this step we are all in.
And you might say well why didn't you do it before we had -- Mike and I discussed 2 different approaches.
We could put the name up first and then add the capabilities and the customer experience and the attributes.
So in other words overpromise and under-deliver or we could be patient and make the investment of $3.7 billion in facilities in additional car lines and most importantly in the customer experience.
And then when we're really able to deliver a peerless experience then name the baby.
So we're at that point and to be unequivocal this is all-in.
We're not going back.
These 15 local market brand names under which we have retailed almost 9 million vehicles start going away tomorrow and will be replaced by the name AutoNation.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And just to be clear this includes the luxury stores as well? No.
Again another good question spot on Rick.
For our Premium Luxury business and by Premium Luxury that's primarily the Germans the Mercedes-Benz BMW Audi portion of the world there we've always had a different strategy.
So we've never sold Mercedes-Benz under the name Maroone for instance in South Florida.
So the Maroone name was never associated with our Premium Luxury business.
It was always Mercedes-Benz of Fort Lauderdale per se.
So that will stay exactly the same.
So the Mercedes-Benz of Fort Lauderdale there is no change whatsoever those names continue.
So we always had a bifurcated strategy between high-volume marketing and Premium Luxury marketing.
So for the high-volume business where that -- there the local market brand names were used.
They're going away being replaced by AutoNation.
That's about 82% of our unit volume is now going under the AutoNation flag.
And on a unit volume basis the Premium Luxury business will retain the strategy that we put in place long ago.
It's working very well for us.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And if I could ask just one final question.
The incremental spend that you talked about the $18 million is that going to be fairly consistent through the first half or is that front-end loaded or back-end loaded? It's front-end loaded in each market so it'll hit very heavy starting in South Florida tomorrow.
And we do Texas next week.
And then there is a whole schedule for the other markets completing in June.
It is $18 million incremental spend purely focused on the name change.
Now for instance in South Florida when we change the name tomorrow to AutoNation all the other communication that normally that selling vehicles that normally would say Maroone now say AutoNation.
So then the amount of marketing dollars going behind AutoNation is -- will migrate through the entire communication effort but they're -- on top of that there is a non-recurring $18 million surge in spending that I would say maybe Mr.Short you know is about equally split between the first and second quarter.
That's correct.
The next question is coming from Patrick Archambault Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of items here.
I guess to -- somebody asked earlier about January you saw a rate.
Can you just give us a sense like how do you assess the impact of Sandy on new sales in the fourth quarter? I think you have different OEs saying different things.
And is that something that we should sort of think about as we're trying to project forward into Q1 a bunch of replacement demand that happened that may not recur as we get into January February March although January seems good? So we're not the expert on Sandy since we are primarily a Sunbelt company and we had no impact on our business by Sandy whatsoever.
So then but then you say "Okay let's look at AutoNation's performance in the Sandy period " and we announce our new vehicle sales every month.
There you have a proxy for the rest of the country not counting Sandy.
And if you look at our numbers the numbers are excellent.
So there's no surge -- there's no Sandy decline or surge in our numbers.
Our numbers are unaffected by Sandy.
So if you want to carve out Sandy and say "Well what happened in America other than Sandy " go look at our sales numbers it's right there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes no that's an interesting way to put it.
The follow-up question I have is just on used then.
It looks like the used to new ratio has been coming down a little bit here.
Is that a function of just kind of a share shift from used to new as the economy recovers or is there something more sort of micro in nature that's driving that? Mr.
Maroone can you talk about our used business please? Sure can.
Patrick thank you.
Your question's a good question in I think there is certainly a shift from used to new.
I think it varies by quarter and by what's being offered to the consumer.
On the used side the primary issue was supply.
The mileage of our trade-ins continues to elevate.
It's gone up each of the last 2 years as people have held off.
So we're seeing a lot of high mileage trades some that can be retailed some that can not.
We also have a limited number of vehicles coming off lease that really goes back to the disruption in '08 and '09.
I think the used car business over time will be back.
But if I look at both new and used together we're up like 12% on a total store 11% on a same-store so we're pleased with the business.
Certainly I think on a go-forward basis as there's more supply available I think the used vehicle business will get better for the industry and for AutoNation.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And one last one if I may.
The pace of parts and service sales continues to stay very high in the mid-single digits.
Can you just tell us as we go forward how sustainable is that? I mean I know that there's a number of new initiatives that you put in place to help drive that.
Is that something that might get pared back a little bit as those mature? Or how should we think about that growth opportunity going forward? I'll speak strategically first and Mr.
Maroone then can address the business directly.
I think it's important -- the most important thing I can tell you is that service and parts is the foundation of our business it gives us our tremendous fixed coverage and it's a tremendous driver of repeat referral business and it's excellent margins.
2012 was the trough.
It was the most difficult environment that we faced because if you think about it our service base is vehicles from brand-new through 5 6 years old and with the sales collapse in '08 '09 and '10 the units in operation available to service reached their nadir the absolute lowest point in 2012.
And now with the sales recovery beginning in '10 '11 '12 the units in operation now begin a recovery that will last for years it'll run.
So if you look at our performance our performance is with the wind on our face on units in operation.
But now you have to say "Well now they have a improved environment with higher units in operation plus their initiatives and plus their capabilities." So the hard part is done on Customer Care and the opportunity only gets greater as we go forward.
Mike you want to talk about it further? Yes I do.
And certainly Mike Jackson hit the macro perfectly.
And '13 is just the beginning and '14 and '15 really accelerate.
But in addition to that as we anticipated that recovery in units in operation we've made some really important investments.
We made an important investment in talent bringing in Alan McLaren to head up our Customer Care business.
He had a tremendous background and has made real improvements in the team.
We're also making technology investments facility investments in collision centers and so I think the payoff is really nice but it is just beginning.
For the quarter we are up 4.5% in revenues 6% gross.
That's our best performance in many years.
And on the full year we are up 5% revenue 4% gross.
So we're actively managing the margins we're driving the business and I think the branding will allow us again to unleash some digital capabilities that we have not had.
So great talent great investment in technology and facilities and we are extremely optimistic about our Customer Care business going forward.
The next question is coming from Jamie Albertine of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Really an unprecedented announcement here with rebranding nationally.
The question I wanted to focus on though was on the F&amp;I side.
Obviously we're looking at record performance here north of $1 300 a unit for the fourth quarter.
I just wanted to take -- kind of dig in a little bit deeper get some more granularity around what's driving that whether it's new products on the F&amp;I side better selling of those products or better penetration rates.
And then overall I know this question's been asked every quarter but where do you think this can trend to over time given what you have seen now most recently? Mr.
Maroone.
First of all I'm thrilled with our F&amp;I team.
We've led the industry of all the people reporting publicly for quite some time and it's gotten a lot better up $84 year-over-year in the quarter just a huge increase.
There is no new products.
What there is is better and better execution.
We really look at the bandwidth of performance in our stores.
We've got an intense training and certification program in and a real focus on selling extended service contracts which creates a much greater linkage to our stores and will help drive that Customer Care volume up.
So the other piece that we've done so well and it's something that Mike Jackson introduced many years ago is what we call the AutoNation pledge which really starts by letting consumers know that they're not forced to buy products.
It's not a high-pressure process.
It's a very methodical process that really puts the customer first and puts the value on these service contract and prepaid maintenance products.
And we don't want to drive our F&amp;I by pushing rates up.
We really want to do it with value-added products.
So it's a -- it's just a continual improvement process and a tightening of the bandwidth.
And I don't want to put a stake in the ground for where it can go.
I will say that we're forecasting continued growth in F&amp;I PVR.
It's a very important part of our strategy.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful and if I may just ask a quick follow-up on the branding or the rebranding.
It's been asked a couple of different ways now but aside from the operating expense leverage it sounds like you can pull away from either an advertising standpoint or from a digital standpoint.
Where do you see from a competitive standpoint the national branding effort really start to take shape? Is it going to be more manifested in maybe more trade-ins so helping your used business or maybe some parts and service customer pay work that you didn't have otherwise? Is there better buying power presumably on the new side? I mean how should we think about this over the longer term with an eye toward maybe market consolidation? So this is Mike Jackson.
You'll notice we're not using the term national branding I mean it's from coast-to-coast.
We basically as we discussed before are very comfortable with our footprint.
Basically a Sunbelt footprint where we started in Washington D.C.
down through Florida across the Sunbelt through Texas up through California ending in Washington state.
And are -- and everything is self-reinforcing so our acquisition strategy is to improve the density within the existing footprint.
That footprint reaches about 50% like with our big states about 50% of where all the vehicles are sold in the United States and we're trying to achieve a very simple concept.
If you work or live in one of our markets you cannot think about buying a car or truck without shopping AutoNation.
We want to be the dominant brand in every market that we're in and whatever you want we have it.
So we are the go-to place to shop.
And that when you do shop with us we embrace this consumer of the future.
So now so this is the next step.
We have a profound understanding we believe of today's consumer where they are and where they're going.
And we see a consumer that's empowered by digital has all these extraordinary new experiences in all these other industries and do not want to go back 1 2 3 decades when it comes time to buy a car or truck.
And this new consumer wants to enjoy the experience and they want high added value for their time and they're very impatient.
And so we've embraced that consumer by making all our processes very customer friendly and high added value.
So we think this combination of dominant positions for the markets where we're in in alignment with where the consumer is and will be will just be a self-reinforcing momentum.
And it doesn't matter what you talk about whether -- any aspect of the business where you have it cared for how it's cared for where your finance it where you trade your used cars.
We want all of that all of it.
And we think this brand strategy does support all of it especially in the digital world.
Now admittedly this is very different than what others are doing in our business.
And I'm not talking about publics or private caps per se I just look at competitors.
We have competitors who use old-school techniques which are very effective and work.
But we would never do that and we think it's a dead end and so we're going really our own way.
And so we are -- I've always said our first priority on capital is this core organic business.
And if you look at the $3.7 billion that we've invested in facilities and strategic acquisitions I have no interest in going to China Brazil Italy England.
If others want to go there that's great for their company but it's not for us.
We will be sitting there waiting to fill in the missing pieces in our brands in our markets and when we are complete there'll be us and everybody else and I sum it up with that statement.
You can just think about it this way if you live or work in one of our markets you cannot make an intelligent decision about buying a car or truck or having it cared for without considering AutoNation.
I like that positioning that's where we're going that's what we're building and to do it under a 1 unified flag from coast-to-coast.
I don't see anybody else that's in a position to challenge us on this strategy.
So we have a unique strategy that is compelling it's powerful that we're well on the way to executing.
The hardest thing to do in business is to open up a sustainable competitive advantage.
I'm declaring today we've done that.
And this branding is a declaration of that and we will not stand still and we will keep moving forward with our strategy I believe in it and I think we will prevail.
The next question is coming from Simeon Gutman of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> One more on the brand strategy not to belabor it...
No you can ask all you want on the brand strategy this is a big day.
Research Division</strong> Well so this is more a little related to timing.
Because I think this was I guess maybe just correct me if I'm wrong this was laying [ph]  vision with this company 1 day.
And if there's a pioneer to do this I think AutoNation would be the pick.
The question is you mentioned digitalization.
Is there some capabilities that you have developed today that cannot go in further until you have this unified brand in place? Meaning why now and is there any rhyme or reason special rhyme or reason for the month of February to begin this? So we Mike Maroone and I when we met 13 years ago before I joined AutoNation sat there and discussed this vision and this ambition.
And we decided to under-promise and over-deliver.
So therefore it's taken this length of time to come to this point.
In that journey we've made big investments in digital and we're now at an inflection point and we are overinvesting in digital.
Let me give you an example of what I mean.
Let's take our Shared Service Center just as an example of the type of things that AutoNation does.
Seven 8 years ago we had the idea that we would unify all our accounting finance and analytics in 1 center and that was built out of Dallas.
It took us 7 years to complete 7 years to complete.
Now though we have an operating discipline within the company that I have no fear or risk of systemic risk in the company AutoNation.
I'm not saying something can't go wrong but it will be small and it will be localized.
So we have tremendous understanding of the business transparency into the business and control into the business and oh by the way it costs a lot less to operate the business that way.
But it was tedious and difficult and disruptive to build.
So now let's go to digital.
I see it exactly the same way.
We've taken the first steps.
We have a good understanding.
We know where we want to go.
And by overinvest I mean we are investing in digital where money is going out the door that the return on it is years away.
So in the Shared Service Center I invested for 3 4 years before I got the first dollar back.
We're doing the same thing with digital.
But when we finally make this bet when we finally make this risk we think we've really figured it out and then we have an extremely high chance of success.
So as we start this journey we were at a intersection between having a customer experience that was peerless the operating discipline that we had control of the business and we're making this big bet on digital.
And no question a unified brand name is more compelling in digital.
So we said "okay we're ready to go." Mike and I did that made that conclusion sometime in the first part of last year into the spring.
Of course we needed to get the manufacturers' approval.
Now Mike and I spent the summer on our regular visits with the manufacturers adding to the agenda that we are ready to take this step.
And I would say the verbal reaction was always very positive but there's a gazillion things that have to be checked.
So -- and then if you want a little humor when we finally -- coming down the home stretch if you want to know what the critical path was was why now? It's the permitting process from the various states and the various agencies.
We had to get -- there is so many licenses involved to get names changed and to get signs up it's unbelievable.
And the reason we can't do the whole company in 1 day is the permitting process.
It's just a bureaucratic nightmare out there but anyway we have our first big market ready to go on -- tomorrow.
And we knew earnings would be today so we said "Well we've got everybody on the phone.
Why don't we not have another teleconference in 2 weeks.
We'll do it all today." So off -- here we are off we go.
We'll have the whole country done and the whole company done by June.
Research Division</strong> Okay well so one follow-up to that and this is I guess a general question which I'm sure you've answered before.
Is digitalization good or bad for gross profit per vehicle over time? Because in a sense this is expediting almost empowering that digitalization a little quicker.
So how do you think about the rate at which either that transparency accelerates as you become 1 unified brand or how do we think about gross profit dollars? Yes so first in our view is this empowering consumer by digital is here to stay.
Digital's not going away.
You can be in denial.
You can be an ostrich and fight it and we see competitors who are.
I think that a -- in my opinion that's a losing battle.
And the consumer's not going to be willing to go backwards when it comes time to buy a car or truck or get it fixed so you might as well embrace this future.
In many ways the transparency makes for a much more efficient effective enjoyable experience for acquiring a car.
I would not want to go back to the old days and the old-school ways of selling cars and trucks.
Let's face it it was like going through the -- it was just tedious and so complicated and I hate 3-card monte.
Just be straightforward and transparent and fair with your customers and you can win in the marketplace.
Now admittedly we're going to go through a difficult period where you still have old-school and new thinking and I'm not saying old-school doesn't work it does work.
It can -- we have competitors who are very good at it in the marketplace but it's just not us.
We think in the end we'll carry the day.
And I feel in principle that transparency is very good for the industry.
You will -- when you hear me though speak out against certain practices that I see in the industry some of them from the manufacturer that are not in alignment with this new empowered consumer that's the reason I'm speaking out because I think they're out of step with where the consumer would like to be such as stair-step incentives where you create huge gaps between what -- a customer comes in at 10:00 and the customer comes in another store at 4:00 in the afternoon you can have a huge price difference.
When the manufacturers create those distortions we argue against it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my last promise a quick question is AutoNation has clearly done either banner conversion or banner transformation before.
Is there any sales disruptions that could happen? It's just natural and then that you get over the hump and the timing and any magnitude? I think it's a very fair point.
When you take down a name like Maroone that's been in the marketplace for 58 years I think you're naive to think that you don't have to manage that situation.
That's the reason we have this surge in marketing communication spend.
And whether I can predict to you whether there will be some disruption of sales it's hard to say.
We think we've got it all planned through.
We think we'll manage all the risk.
I will point out we have changed names in markets before.
We did it in Denver when we went from John Elway to Go and we were able to manage that.
So we have all the learnings from that.
I think we'll manage this but you -- it's a fair thing to say.
These are strong local market brand names that are well established that we are leaving behind and going forward.
But in the long term in the strategic term it's not a close call.
The next question is coming from Matt Nemer.
LLC Research Division</strong> I've got another follow-up on the branding change which is if we look at the digital impact of this can you get more specific around what this could do for you online? Does it help your Google rankings? Does drive web traffic et cetera? There you go.
You're -- now you're talking.
Mr.
Maroone take over.
Matt good morning.
Clearly our capabilities from search will get better.
I don't think it happens overnight it takes Google a little bit of time.
But going to market under 1 name versus 15 names I think is quite an opportunity.
And certainly search is a big driver of traffic.
So yes we do believe our capability's increased.
It's hard to guesstimate how much time will tell.
But it is much more effective under 1 name especially a name like AutoNation.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then secondly can you get more specific on your plans to capitalize on the growing units in operation this year? Are there any kind of specific efforts in marketing or menus that are changing this year to drive more service business? Mr.
Maroone please.
Again Matt I think that the digital age will help us a lot but we are very aggressive and continue to be aggressive in investing in that business both with people and talent and training and now technology.
We're piloting some new technology in stores right now that we're very confident about that if successful will roll out over the next 1 year to 1.5 years that will make that customer experience just what Mike Jackson has talked about and that's transparent faster giving customers real choice both online and in the store.
So there's technology investments there's marketing investments and as I spoke to earlier we've added some real talent in that business and we're really excited.
We think the timing is perfect.
LLC Research Division</strong> Any price investments? Do you think that you're kind of optimized at the current prices that you're charging or would you look to potentially lower prices in some markets? Well I don't think that we need to.
I think what we need to do is have consistency in pricing which we've now accomplished.
We continually survey the market and make sure that we're priced in line with that market.
But if you're asking do we need to discount our business to really drive more traffic I don't think it's that kind of price sensitivity.
I think customers are looking for the right experience.
They're looking for trusted professionals.
They want to do business in new clean first-class facilities and it really speaks to the $3.7 billion investment that Mike Jackson spoke to.
So I think that we'll be able to deliver an even better product going forward as this UIO increases with the facility technology training and talent investments we've made.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just 1 housekeeping item.
The $18 million does that include the sort of surge in marketing? It is the surge in marketing.
The last question is coming from Brett Hoselton KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could drill down into used cars a little bit.
As I look at your performance this year versus let's say CNW or some of the other public available numbers out there it looks like you were outperforming the industry in the first half of the year and then kind of underperforming the industry in the back half of the year just on a year-over-year percentage change basis.
And I understand there is some supply challenges and I presume they're not necessarily completely unique to yourself.
But I'm wondering is there -- would you agree with my assessment? And if so is there some rationale for why you may have slowed down? And then what are you doing about the future? I would say we agree with your assessment.
Mr.
Maroone you want to give any insights on that? Yes.
I think that we are working really hard on the supply side.
I think there's -- I think you can expect better results with us going forward.
We are actually working harder to retain more of our trades and have made some structural changes in the first of the year that our team's very bought into.
But I think first half strong performance second half certainly we've -- there's more opportunity there than we got and I think you can look forward to a better performance from us.
We are -- if I could just expand one more time we are working really hard on developing some out-of-store capabilities.
For example we're now buying cars online through a very interesting process using some big sources like Edmunds and eBay taking trades.
We're taking trades for Tesla.
So we're trying to develop the capabilities to go beyond store sourcing and source in other ways.
And I think that again under a common brand name it will become even easier and we are making incremental investments in that part of the business.
Research Division</strong> And then as we think about your free cash flow generation obviously you're a solid free cash flow generator.
How would you rate your -- or prioritize your uses of capital beyond CapEx? I mean are we at a point where acquisitions are equally as appealing to share repurchases? Or what are your thoughts there? This is Mike Jackson.
Clearly you'd see that we have an outstanding record on capital allocation and I've said it over the years.
We give as much thought and effort to capital allocation as we do to making the money.
In the first place I've always said our first call is on the core organic business and you now see that totals $3.7 billion over these past years.
And that will continue to be our #1 focus is the core organic business.
And then as far as future acquisitions they -- again we will be patiently looking for opportunities within our existing footprint.
And as they are presented we are prepared to act as you saw on the Texas deal.
We're in a lot of discussions but it's always hard to say what deal gets to the finish line and what does not.
And we always look at share repurchase on the opportunistic side.
We've been very good at that.
We've repurchased -- we spent $7 billion on repurchase and -- at an average share price of $17 for a stock that's now trading at $47.
So obviously we've created a lot of shareholder value there.
But those -- that balance between acquisition and share repurchase opportunity is made on an opportunistic business depending on what is presented to us.
And we like to stay unpredictable on a forward basis but you got to admire the track record.
I think that was last question.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you very much for joining us today.
This will conclude today's conference.
All parties may disconnect at this time.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to AutoNation's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I will turn the call over to Ms.
Cheryl Scully Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations for AutoNation.
Ma'am you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to AutoNation's first quarter 2013 conference call and webcast.
Leading our call today will be Mike Jackson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mike Maroone our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Short our Chief Financial Officer.
Following their remarks we will open up the call for questions.
Robert Quartaro and I will also be available by phone following the call to address any additional questions that you may have.
Before we begin let me read our brief statement regarding forward-looking comments and the use of non-GAAP financial measures.
Certain statements and information on this call will constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve risks which may cause the actual results or performance to differ materially from expectations.
Additional discussions of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are contained in our SEC filings.
Certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules will be discussed on this call.
Reconciliations are available on our Investor Relations website at investors.autonation.com under Financials.
And now I'll turn the call over to AutoNation's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mike Jackson.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
Today we reported an all-time record of quarterly adjusted EPS from continuing operations of $0.68 in the first quarter a 21% increase as compared to $0.56 for the same period in the prior year.
First quarter revenue totaled $4.1 billion compared to $3.7 billion in the year-ago period an increase of 12% driven by stronger performance in all of our business sectors.
In the first quarter AutoNation's new vehicle unit sales increased 9% or 6% on a same-store sales basis.
And used vehicle unit sales increased 10% or 7% on a same-store basis.
Today we also announced the acquisition of 3 stores that support our strategy of acquiring dealerships that will round out our brand offering in each of our major markets.
We will add Toyota to the Dallas market and Honda and Hyundai in the Phoenix market.
Our coast-to-coast branding rollout which began in February is well underway and is approximately 30% complete based on total unit sales as of March 31.
We are pleased that we have seen positive market share gains in the markets we have re-branded.
It's progressing well and we look forward to completing the re-branding in the second quarter.
AutoNation is well positioned capitalizing on the recovery with an optimal brand and market mix and disciplined cost structure.
We will continue to drive strong results across all our business sectors during the multiyear recovery in auto retail.
I now turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Mike Short.
Thank you Mike and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
For the first quarter we reported net income from continuing operations of $83 million or $0.68 per share versus net income of $74 million or $0.56 per share during the first quarter of 2013 (sic) [ 2012 ] a 21% improvement on a per share basis.
In the first quarter revenue increased $439 million or 12% compared to the prior year and gross profit improved by $61 million or 10%.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross profit was 71.3% for the quarter which represents a 50 basis point improvement compared to the year-ago period.
As part of our AutoNation re-branding initiative we incurred approximately $6.5 million or $0.03 per share of incremental SG&amp;A expenses during the first quarter of 2013.
Excluding these expenses our SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross profit would have been 70.3%.
We expect to incur approximately $11.5 million in re-branding expenses in the second quarter bringing the total spend to $18 million as previously announced.
Returning to first quarter results.
Net new vehicle floorplan was a benefit of $6.3 million a decrease of $0.5 million from the first quarter of 2012 due to higher floorplan balances partially offset by lower floorplan interest rates.
Floorplan debt was approximately $2.5 billion at quarter end which was relatively flat compared to December 31 2012.
Non-vehicle interest expense was $22.3 million for the quarter an interest -- an increase of $1.8 million compared to $20.5 million in the first quarter of 2012 due to an increase in fixed-rate debt from our 5.5% senior notes issuance in February of 2012.
At the end of March we had $420 million of outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility and total non-vehicle debt balance of $2 billion.
This was a decrease of approximately $139 million compared to December 31 2012.
The provision for income tax in the quarter was $53 million or 38.8%.
During the first quarter of 2013 we repurchased 56 000 shares for $2.2 million at an average price of $39.42 per share.
AutoNation has $317 million remaining -- in remaining board authorization for share repurchase.
As of April 17 there were approximately 121 million shares outstanding.
This does not include the dilutive impact of stock options.
Our leverage ratio at the end of the first quarter was 2.59x or 2.38x on a net-debt basis including used floorplan availability compared to the covenant limit of 3.75x.
Capital expenditures were $23 million for the quarter.
Capital expenditures are on an accrual basis excluding operating lease buyouts and related asset sales.
Our quarter-end cash balance was approximately $46 million which combined with our additional borrowing capacity resulted in total liquidity of $879 million at the end of March.
We continue to demonstrate strong operating leverage robust cash flow generation and disciplined capital allocation with a focus on driving shareholder returns.
Now let me turn you over to our President and Chief Operating Officer Mike Maroone.
Thanks Mike and good morning.
We're very pleased with our start to the year.
In the first quarter AutoNation delivered strong growth in revenue and gross profit across all sectors of our business: New vehicles used vehicles customer care and finance and insurance.
Overall we also delivered solid unit volume growth and we're especially pleased with the strong recovery of our Florida and California markets where combined we had a 10% increase for new and used vehicle sales on a same-store basis.
This along with very solid 4.1% operating margin and an all-time record adjusted EPS.
In addition to a very strong operational performance we began the launch of the AutoNation brand that will be rolled out to over 200 of our domestic and import franchises coast-to-coast by the end of June.
We also signed agreements to acquire 3 stores 1 each for Toyota Honda and Hyundai.
I'll expand on this later in my remarks.
As I continue my comments will be on a same-store basis compared to the period a year ago unless noted otherwise.
Starting with new vehicles.
In the quarter new vehicle revenue increased $194 million or 10% to $2.2 billion on new vehicle sales volume of 65 300 new vehicles an increase of 3 800 vehicles or 6% with growth across all 3 segments particularly the Premium Luxury segment.
At $33 519 revenue per new vehicle retailed was up $1 100.
We noted increased average selling prices across all 3 segments with the Premium Luxury segment being the largest contributor.
New vehicle gross profit of $137 million increased $3 million or 2% in the quarter.
Gross profit per new vehicle retailed of $2 097 was off $81 primarily attributed to aggressive volume-based manufacturer incentive programs that were more lucrative in the prior period and to a lesser degree a mix shift within the Premium Luxury segment in the current period.
Our new vehicle inventory is in good shape and we will continue to buy aggressively for the remainder of the selling season.
At March 31 our new vehicle days supply was 63 days or 61 700 units compared to 54 days and 47 400 units a year ago.
Turning to used vehicles.
Retail used vehicle revenue of $870 million was up $69 million or 9%.
In the first quarter we retailed 49 200 used vehicles an increase of 3 100 vehicles or 7%.
Revenue per used vehicle retailed of $17 687 increased $316.
Retail used vehicle gross profit of $81 million was up $2.5 million or 3%.
Gross profit per used vehicle retailed at $1 646 was off $56 attributable in part to the increased cost to acquire vehicles for our certified preowned programs and our desire to retail higher mileage vehicles we would have previously wholesaled.
At March 31 our used vehicle days supply was 29 days the same as a year ago.
Next Customer Care or service parts and collision.
In the quarter we had solid growth across the board in customer pay warranty internal wholesale parts and collision for both revenue and gross.
We also recorded our highest overall Customer Care margin in nearly 2 years of 42.8% a 110 basis point improvement on a total store basis.
Customer Care revenue increased $23 million or 4% to $623 million.
And Customer Care gross profit increased $16 million or 6% to $266 million.
In the quarter we noted impressive year-over-year increases in warranty gross of 15% internal gross of 12% and customer pay gross of 4%.
This marks the 11th consecutive quarterly increase in customer pay gross.
We're very pleased with this performance especially given the fact that the industry units in operation are just now bottoming out and the service base will start to grow again this year.
We believe that the focus by our Customer Care team on operational excellence margin improvement and driving sales effectiveness delivered very strong results and positions us well moving forward.
I'll also note that the quarter had 2 less selling days than Q1 2012 so when adjusted for days our Customer Care same-store revenue would be up 7% and gross would be up 10%.
Turning to finance and insurance.
We had another great performance from our store and store F&amp;I teams who once again delivered a record gross profit per vehicle retailed of $1 323 an increase of $113 or 9%.
Total F&amp;I gross profit of $152 million increased $21 million or 16% compared to the period a year ago.
Our preferred lender network OEM service contract alliances strong product penetration and store level execution continue to drive outstanding performance in F&amp;I and we remain focused on continuous improvement.
On February 1 we opened Fiat of Roseville our fifth Fiat location.
This and other activity in the quarter brought our store portfolio to 222 stores and 263 franchises representing 32 brands in 15 states as of March 31.
As mentioned earlier in the quarter we signed agreements to acquire 3 stores a Toyota store in the Dallas area that will operate as AutoNation Toyota of North Arlington; and Honda and Hyundai stores in the Phoenix area that will operate as AutoNation Honda Chandler and AutoNation Hyundai Tempe.
Each of these acquisitions add brands we previously didn't represent in these markets.
As noted in previous calls last year we were awarded new ad points for Maserati MINI and Audi.
Maserati of Stevens Creek will open on May 1.
MINI of Valencia is on track to open in mid-June and construction is scheduled to begin on Audi of Orlando that will be completed in the first quarter of 2014.
As always we continue to actively pursue acquisition opportunities that meet our market brand and return on investment criteria.
In closing we're particularly pleased that since Q4 2009 our revenue has increased 47% and gross profit has increased 40% while headcount has only increased by 15%.
We attribute this to continuous improvement of our core business including our disciplined cost structure and initiatives to advance our capabilities which drive associate productivity and create a win-win for our associates and shareholders.
We believe that our significant investments in facilities technology associate development and branding are helping to lay the groundwork to further differentiate AutoNation.
As we take the AutoNation brand coast-to-coast and continue to pursue our vision to be America's best place to buy and service cars and trucks I'd like to thank our 21 000 associates for their commitment and dedication to AutoNation.
With that I'll turn it back to Mike Jackson.
Thanks Mike.
During the first quarter we saw continued strength in auto industry sales as consumers enjoyed a broader array of choices than ever before as well as a strong credit environment.
We believe the recovery in auto sales will remain strong due to accelerated product launches of which we expect 55 for model year 2014 up from the already impressive 37 in model year 2013.
Of course we have continued replacement demand and robust availability of consumer credit.
In addition our Customer Care business will benefit as industry units in operation begin to recover in 2013.
We are at the beginning of a broad-based recovery for the economy in auto retail.
As we look at the rest of 2013 we believe that the improvement in new vehicle sales will continue and we expect new vehicle sales to be in the mid-15 million units for the year.
Thank you very much and we're happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is coming from Rick Nelson of Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Mike capital allocation priorities seem to have really shifted here from buybacks toward acquisitions.
I'm wondering if you can provide some color on that.
Is it a case where the valuations are now coming into the wheelhouse on the acquisition side? Actually the process or the priorities have not changed one iota.
We're doing every month several times a month exactly what we've been doing for the last 13 years.
We sit there and discuss where our capital can be applied best.
It's definitely done on an opportunistic basis.
It has to do with where the price of stock is where we think the market is going and what kind of acquisition opportunities are presented in the marketplace.
Do they fit? And can we come to a meeting of minds on price.
Obviously if you look at the past 6 months we've done over $800 million of revenue run rate on acquisitions meaning that it's been a very good period of alignment on acquisitions.
We have further discussions going on right now.
But as I said in the past you never know if you get to the finish line on these transactions so I can't commit in the future.
So it's done on an opportunistic basis.
That's the way we've always done it.
And right now if we look at what is being presented to us in the marketplace and what we're discussing it's the best return for our capital.
Research Division</strong> Also you mentioned the improvement that we're at an inflection point now with units in operation positive for the several [ph] business.
I'm interested in the used car business how that's improving supply -- you see that evolving? The comps look good this quarter and we did see a sequential improvement in margin.
Is that supply-driven improvement? Rick it's Mike Maroone.
I don't think the supply has yet changed although we are anticipating that it will get better.
Especially for the certified preowned units they're still very tight and the supply is very limited so we're having to pay a lot of money to get those vehicles and that's a growing part of the segment.
The other factor is the used vehicles out there are coming in with very high mileage and we're really working hard to retail those.
So it's keeping -- putting enough pressure on the margins.
But I think as it loosens up going forward and there is more supply I think there is more opportunity on the margin side.
But we are pleased that sequentially our margins are up and looking for more.
Research Division</strong> And finally if I could ask about F&amp;I.
If you've seen any change at all in the pricing as a result of the CFPB or discussions along those lines? No.
Absolutely not.
No developments there.
Don't expect any developments.
We're very confident of our added value in the finance and insurance business.
We negotiate great wholesale rates for our customers because we have -- we can offer the financial institutions a very cost-effective way to acquire a lot of loans.
We have a very reasonable margin on that business of 125 basis points.
And so if you look at the added value we have for the customers and the financial institutions I do not expect any changes in that business that would materially affect our performance or results.
The next question is coming from John Murphy Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> First question just on acquisitions to follow-up on Rick's question.
As we look at this you're getting a little bit more aggressive on acquisitions or at least there's more coming through at this point.
Has something change in the way that you're evaluating your targets and maybe baking in more synergies because you are operating so much better? Or is this really just a function of what's available and how things are going in the market? I would describe it -- the journey this way John.
If you go back to '08 '09 transactions came to a standstill.
You had a very disrupted marketplace and sellers said "I will not get anything near fair value for my business in this environment and I'm going to hang on." And buyers were in no mood to step up and pay the kind of multiples you would have to pay in that environment with the expectation that everything's just going to work out.
So deals came to a standstill.
Now there is a natural flow of deals to the marketplace every year the same -- the motivation to sell.
And we always talk to motivated sellers we don't make offers that can't be refused.
We talk to people who want to sell.
Whatever the reasons are capital demands from the manufacturers succession problems with the family et cetera et cetera.
So every year there's a graduation of deals that would normally come to the market.
So by the time you get to '10 or '11 there's a backlog of deals.
Then there was a gap in understanding around price which further pushed things out.
And then there was finally a meeting of the minds of what's a fair price around our threshold returns and what sellers would take.
So now you're seeing the catch-up from all that postponement that there's a lot of discussions and a lot of opportunity.
And when we see alignment we're going to step up and do it.
You'll have to get our report card quarter-by-quarter.
I'm not going to sit here and say "We're going to do x billion this year." That's not us.
That's not how we do it.
We take it quarter-by-quarter but that -- I would paint that as a background description of what's going on.
Research Division</strong> That's incredibly helpful.
Second question as we think about the success of your branding efforts it sounds like early on in the markets where you've launched you mentioned that you gained some market share.
I was just curious if you can kind of quantify that for us because it sounds like it's very successful very quickly.
I'm just trying to understand what the benefits are that you're seeing in early days.
So it's not a step that we took without some trepidation.
We had local market brand names some of them were in the marketplace 80 years old.
You don't walk away from those too easy.
We would have strategically taken this step even if we were to go backward for a given period of time to establish the new brand.
If -- so if we had to accept some disruption we still would have greenlighted the project.
And we sort of said best case is we hold steady.
And the reality has turned out that we actually have some market share gains.
You could attribute those market share gains also to the surge in spending in those markets.
You couldn't miss us in those markets during the re-branding period.
So we consider anything that's on the plus side of the ledger at this point out of the box a success.
And bodes very well for the long-term future that we've had this kind of response from the marketplace and from our customers.
I can also tell you the enthusiasm and the morale of our associates in embracing this branding is nothing short of phenomenal.
They are very proud of the company that we've built.
And you know if I go back years ago we had a choice.
We could brand early and overpromise and under-deliver or we could be patient and disciplined.
And when we finally brand it really deliver on the expectation.
And our associates know that we have a peerless product in the marketplace.
And now to be able to unify under one flag AutoNation and declare it to the marketplace yes I am an employee and associate of AutoNation has been a tremendous morale boost for the company.
And we're very satisfied where we are at this point and are very excited to get back on the road after we wrap-up these quarterly reports and do the rest of the company and complete it here in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Then just on pricing and incentives.
The industry seems to be relatively capacity constrained right now so it doesn't seem like there's big incentive or pricing actions that are being taken by the automakers.
But there's this constant drumbeat of fear with a weak yen that the Japanese are going to start a price war.
I'm just curious what your take on that is.
And if you're seeing anything below the covers that we're not seeing externally that's going on.
Yes John.
I would differ with your premise slightly.
I don't think the fact that we have rational behavior around incentives is because there's capacity restraint.
If you look at inventories they are actually quite healthy.
I think where -- the industry is at 3.2 million units out there.
That's probably $100 billion worth of inventory so there's plenty of inventory out there.
And I think this discipline is more transformational in the sense that at the end of the day all the segments are filled by everybody.
Everybody has a really high-quality distinctive product offering and there is stability around share where you would have to pay a tremendous price to move a point one way or the other.
So I really see a stabilization around share with the Detroits being somewhere in the mid-40s the Asians somewhere in the mid-40s and the Europeans taking the rest.
And I really don't expect a strategic incentive price war to be unleashed.
Second in talking with all the manufacturers I don't care whether it's Asian German or Detroit everybody understands in this business that you have to produce where you sell.
And you have to remove exchange rates from your business plan and balance them out.
And everybody -- the situation is not comparable if we were having this conversation 10 15 20 years ago.
Great progress has been made.
So on the margin exchange rates do not play the role they once did.
I still -- I understand for an export country like Japan and globally it's an issue.
But if you look at where they are in the U.S.
it's certainly not the issue it was 15 20 years ago.
So my view is that we have genuine rational discipline around incentives.
I don't see incentives going away.
There'll always be tactical incentives but I don't see anyone unleashing a price war.
I just don't see who is going to do that and I do not expect it to come from the Japanese because of what's happening with the yen.
By the way they sort of view these exchange rates from a market perspective and I've been in this chair from a strategic point of view and the variability is profitability all-in.
They sort of take a strategic price positioning in the marketplace and either eat or reap the swings in the currency.
But long term they're all trying to balance it out with production.
Research Division</strong> And then just the last question.
You mentioned that you thought housing was supporting truck sales recently but housing starts in absolute terms are still relatively low versus where they've been historically.
I mean is there something in the end markets that you can identify specifically? Because it seems to us like this housing recovery may actually not be the big driver and it might still be on the come for pickup trucks.
I'm just trying to understand what you're seeing in your data that gives you that level of confidence.
Here's what we're looking at.
Okay we all know we had a bubble in housing construction '04 '05 '06 up over 2 million units a year including multiple households.
Then we had the collapse and household construction dropped to less than 500 000 a year.
And basically we've been sitting there for 4 or 5 years clearing the inventory.
And anybody who was in home construction did not buy a new pickup truck.
We're now approaching 1 million units and I agree with you John completely we're not back to trend yet on household construction.
It should be let's say a sustainable rate of 1.5 million something like that but it's certainly double.
This year will be double what it was 3 or 4 years ago.
So you have to take into effect we had a depression in housing.
We had a depression in autos.
And housing has finally cleared the inventory and we're seeing that disruption [ph].
And all these contractors are looking out in the next several years and see they're going to have work and they're coming in and buying pickup trucks.
I would also not underestimate the impact of the energy sector particularly in Texas Colorado.
For us this frac-ing technique is like a production technique.
It's not like drilling a well.
It's very labor-intensive compared to other ways to get petroleum and they're high-paying jobs.
So all of a sudden you have these 2 industries housing and energy that have jobs that can't be outsourced to India or any place else in the world.
These are good American workers.
And they all want full size pickup trucks to drive to work and our pickup truck sales in the first quarter are up 18%.
So listen I'm not forecasting the recovery in the economy but I am saying compared to 2 years ago 3 years ago there are bright spots in this economy in housing energy and automotive that would say this tepid recovery is moving into a phase where it can stand on its own 2 legs.
And as fiscal policy and monetary policy become less supportive over the next year or 2 we can still -- the economy can still probably support GDP growth to 2% to 3%.
That's the transition phase that I feel we're in.
The next question is coming from Ravi Shanker Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Yejay in for Ravi.
My first question I wanted to drill a bit deeper into the F&amp;I business.
Could you maybe breakout for us what the growth drivers here were for the segments? Specifically maybe how much of the improvement was driven by banks and lenders getting more aggressive as opposed to increased penetration and things like service contracts and prepaid maintenance and then maybe how much road we have ahead of us in terms of growth from here? Well first of all I think there's tremendous competition and there's a lot of capital available for the space that really reflects on the strong performance of those loans even in the downturn.
And Mike Jackson said many times people pay for their cars before they pay for their credit cards or their houses and I think that's a fact.
So we've got a lot more lenders who are very hungry for the business.
Our overall finance penetration hasn't changed a lot.
It's still around 70%.
Where the income growth is coming from is both in the product penetration where we're seeing improvements in our service contracts our prepaid maintenance and our other products.
And also where we've been able to use our size and scale to get incremental earnings from lenders and from companies that provide those products.
So we're really leveraging our scale to do a better job of gaining more gross.
We are certainly not getting it on the rate side.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Would you say that it's been I guess the growth has been skewed more because of the product growth like the service contracts and the prepaid contracts as opposed to using your size and scale to get incremental earnings from lenders? I think it's both.
I think if you asked me to rank them I would say product penetration would be slightly ahead but we work hard in both areas.
Research Division</strong> Got it and that's very helpful.
My next question if we could focus more on gross profit per unit and would love to hear thoughts on both new and used.
But given that we're now mostly past the distortions caused by the Japanese tsunami and maybe to a lesser extent past the effects of Hurricane Sandy do you see yourself -- your -- the company being able to maintain GPU at current levels? Do you see this changing if we start seeing any incremental changes in the pricing environment like if the yen maybe does start to have a negative impact on incentives? This is Mike Jackson.
We feel -- we're dissatisfied with our front-end margins and have the ambition to improve them.
Saying that and doing it is 2 different things.
It's a very competitive marketplace out there and it's a very complex marketplace out there.
What do I mean by that? While I talked about the overall level of incentives are appropriate and tactical the structure of many of the incentives are really out of step with today's customer and extremely disruptive.
And there I'm talking about stair-step incentive programs that are really out of step with today's customer and today's marketplace.
And when they are unleashed in the marketplace it really wreaks havoc in trying to manage front-end margin.
So we're hard at work on it.
We have the ambition to improve.
We think we can maintain where we are.
The ambition is to improve and we're fighting tooth and nail not to go down.
Mr.
Maroone do you have anything to add to that? No I think that's a great description on the new side.
On the used side I think it's -- the opportunity is in better and better execution.
And I think our used car team has made very good progress and I think there's more that we can do.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And if I could sneak in one final one.
Could you guys comment a bit on where subprime penetration trends have been for you guys? And if that's been a big driver in retail sales improvement or has that sort of remained steady and perhaps a source of improvement further on down the road? I think subprime financing is more abundant.
I think due to some credit failures in the downturn there is more customers out there that are in that category so I think it is a growth opportunity for us and I think that it will continue to be.
Especially in some of our bigger markets the subprime business is a big part of that market.
Research Division</strong> Was that a big driver of growth specifically in 1Q? I'm sorry? Research Division</strong> Was that a big driver of growth specifically for the first quarter? No.
I think it's been that way for the last few years.
So we've seen improvements over the last year.
I don't see it as radically changing in this one quarter.
Your next question is coming from Jamie Albertine Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Quick housekeeping items just have some follow-ups on a few of the comments you mentioned earlier.
If you could clarify.
I think you said pickup truck sales up 18%.
Could you fill in the gap with respect to maybe car sales because I guess we had seen some choppiness on the car side as it related to cars versus trucks in the quarter.
And then as it relates to your M&amp;A environment can you talk a little bit about -- we understand the cadence here and we're excited quite frankly about hearing more deals getting closed.
But we understand it's tough to pull the trigger and there's a lot of stuff that can happen before you close.
Can give us a sense of how many deals you've reviewed and to the point where you could only find 2 that worked just so we could understand how active you are in that environment? I would say we're in discussion on 15 to 20 transactions at any time.
That's the bandwidth of what's in discussion.
So a lot of opportunity there.
But I can't make a forecast on what would happen.
I'm not going to paint myself into that corner.
On trucks versus cars where we are -- our company 48% trucks 52% car that's our split.
Mike do you have some bottom [ph] lines? I think on a total store basis cars were up 9% trucks were up 10% on a same-store basis 6% and 7% for car and trucks so we're seeing growth in both sides.
But if you look at those numbers and then you say large pickup trucks are up 18% I mean that is really an outlier or a standout number.
It jumps off the page.
That to me says something about the economy.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Absolutely.
We would share your sentiment and the response you gave earlier to that end with the energy sector and so on and so forth.
I guess from a bigger picture question and then I'll get back in the queue.
Can you help us parse how you're thinking about fixed cost leverage opportunities relative to growth in the future and organic? And to the extent that you can sort of delve into where you see the biggest opportunities within your existing footprint and how that plays into the magnitude of your longer-term plans? Jamie this is Mike Short.
The way to think about it from a high level is we generally look for about a 50% flow-through from the incremental gross profit dollars that we drive through the P&amp;L all the way down to operating income.
And if you exclude the re-branding numbers that we called out earlier in our commentary that's about what we drove this quarter and that's been a fairly consistent trend for us for the past several quarters.
The way we accomplish that is when you look within the areas of SG&amp;A on the comp side within your variable compensation you're really looking for productivity enhancements.
Happy to pay sales associates a lot more money but we like to see them drive a lot more gross profit associated with that.
And that's a win-win for us and our associates.
On our fixed-cost comp what we're looking to try and accomplish is identify areas for process improvement whether that's our Shared Service Center or other opportunities that we have to improve technology to drive additional productivity and leverage that fixed cost structure.
On the advertising side the other area of SG&amp;A we're putting a lot of analytical support behind trying to identify that that 50% of your advertising that's really working for you that we can identify what the return is on that and how do we maximize it.
And then when you get into the SG&amp;A categories those other SG&amp;A things the administrative cost within our stores is benchmarking and trying to maximize the identification of best practices and roll those best practices out across the rest of the stores.
That's basically the formula that we've been on now for several years.
It seems to be working well for us.
The next question is coming from Simeon Gutman of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A couple of clarifications first.
First on F&amp;I the $1 300 or so per vehicle.
Can you just break down maybe in order of magnitude how much is coming from either service contracts or penetration rate -- or not rate but just penetration dollars versus financing vehicles? And then the second follow-up on gross profit per new.
I heard in the prepared remarks you were cycling some incentives.
But did you also suggest that the margin within luxury or premium was coming down? Can you just clarify that please? First in F&amp;I the way we look at it really is is that 2/3 of the income comes from product 1/3 of the income comes from rate and that's a variable bucket.
I don't have a breakdown for you within the product of how much each of those segments contribute.
And the question on new vehicle gross? Research Division</strong> Yes.
On new vehicle gross.
Can you repeat the question? Research Division</strong> Sure.
I think you mentioned in the prepared remarks part of it was you were cycling some incentives from a year ago.
But I guess I would have expected if the mix of premium went up year-over-year versus Import the profit per unit would have looked a little better.
And I didn't know if I missed the comment that you said that there was some pressure in -- within the luxury premium segment.
Yes I think there's 2 pressures.
One in the Import segment.
It was very competitive with much higher volume targets in the stair-step incentives.
In the luxury segment you're right we did do a better job in luxury.
Where we really saw a change there is in the mix shift where there was a shift to some lower margin vehicles.
The one I'll call out is BMW where we had a really big quarter in BMW but the X1 and some of the smaller products took a bigger piece of that share.
So I don't think it's a major structural problem.
I think it's just a mix in the quarter.
And we're happy to have that Premium Luxury business.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then regarding the marketing program it was mentioned that you gained share in some of those markets.
Are some of the markets that are seeing the marketing changes is that -- is the back-end also seeing some of the Shared Service Center change at the same time? And where I'm going is are you leaving something on the table still as you go through this process? Meaning we should see stronger results once -- obviously when this gets done but in this disruption period you're losing something.
The Shared Service Center was a precondition to launch the brand.
We had to have no risk of systemic failure so it took us quite some time to build our Shared Service Center.
That gave us complete transparency and control of the business that we could not have a systemic issue.
At the same time something that was very cost effective and efficient.
So that was the precondition.
That's done across the enterprise.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question is on the parts and service margin.
Can you talk about the drivers of why that's increasing and then how we should think about that going forward? We announced that we were going to put a lot of energy and focus into Customer Care including the arrival of a new Senior Vice President to lead that effort Alan McLaren who came from Mercedes-Benz.
And we said that in this approach as we made this effort we would go for revenue first and come for the gross margin later.
And so we spent a couple of years just looking for new opportunities for revenue and really got into those business segments understood them and then found a way to have added value and retain that business and gradually begin to expand our gross margins.
So it's a classic business move that we're executing very effectively.
And to say that we're seeing these kinds of results when we just now are approaching the structural bottom of the Customer Care business due to the meltdown back in '08 '09 gives us a lot of encouragement for the future.
Research Division</strong> And as the units in operation come back are there levers in the gross margin where that creates leverage? Or does that come down to I guess SG&amp;A leverage as well? Not sure I understand the question.
Research Division</strong> So if -- as units come back into the operation so you see more volume are there any levers in the gross margin side whether it's either your leveraging the cost of the service person doing the work and that gross margin continues to go up as the units come back or is that leverage all contained in your SG&amp;A line? It's primarily contained in the SG&amp;A line.
There is a little bit of fixed-cost leverage within the Customer Care business.
And as Mike mentioned the continued press for improvement in margins as we get into this next phase will help that as well but most of that operating leverage will occur at the SG&amp;A line Simeon.
The next question is coming from Patrick Archambault Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A number of my questions have been answered but one I wanted to delve in on is the used performance this month.
You had a used-to-new ratio of 0.75.
That's the highest you've seen in 3 quarters.
Can you tell us a little bit of how much of that is market dynamics potentially used normalizing a little bit if your wholesale inventory is becoming a bit more available and how much of that is market share and things you are doing to capture a bigger piece of that business? Patrick I think you'll recall over the last several quarters of last year we called out that we were dissatisfied with our used vehicle point of view and felt we had an operational opportunity.
We're always very frank when we look at an issue that if it's us it's us and we say it.
And so we've worked very hard to improve our capabilities around used cars have made changes and they seem to be working.
It's still a tough environment out there on the supply and demand side but we definitely consider the first quarter a step forward.
Mike you want to add anything on that? I think you said it.
We've got a new team.
Steve Strader we brought in as a Senior Vice President heads up that team.
And he and the used car folks really focused on wholesaling less retailing more moving units appropriately and pricing to market controlling our discounting.
There's a whole series of execution issues that I think they've done an excellent job of working through.
And we think there's even more opportunity in that business in the recovery.
The next question is coming from Matt Nemer Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
The first is as you look at the units in operation recovery how do you think that the cadence of that varies by brand or by market segment i.e.
does luxury rebound first? And what are the implications of that on your margins? And then secondly as you've re-branded the markets can you talk about any early changes that you've seen on Google or other Internet platforms in terms of how you're ranking? Well first on the units in operation it's a pure math exercise.
We assume that we are carrying for vehicles from brand new to year 5 or 6.
You go back and you look at the sales rates of our various markets we've calculated it all out.
And I would say our bottom and inflection point is actually the third quarter something like that.
And it is a very gradual turn.
I would say Premium Luxury is leading the way of the turn but it's -- we're just so happy not to be going down anymore and to be leveling off and to see the turn coming.
And Mike do you want to talk about digital? Yes.
When Mike talked about attacking different areas of the business we also brought in some incremental talent in the marketing group headed by Greg Revelle who's got a very strong digital background.
So in the re-brand we have really focused on driving more traffic to our websites and our traffic is much improved.
And certainly in a re-brand opportunity we are spending a lot of money to drive that traffic but we're really pleased with the progress we're making both in our phone calls our e-leads and our walk-ins to our stores.
So I think a lot of that is driven by our digital efforts in addition to a strong media buy to make that -- so that consumers can make the connection between our old brand and our AutoNation coast-to-coast brand.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just bigger picture given Greg's hire and I know you brought on people from other Internet companies like eBay how do you think the digital experience will change for AutoNation bigger picture over the course of the next few years? Well we are making significant investments both in bringing in real talent some of which you called out in technology.
So we're excited about the future.
We think consumers are having experiences in other industries that they're very pleased with and yet auto retail in many cases has lagged.
So I'm hopeful that you'll see a lot from AutoNation and you'll see us be the leader in that space.
I probably won't take it any deeper than that until we can come out and demonstrate our capabilities even to a higher extent.
The next question is coming from Colin Langan of UBS.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned earlier in the call that you're confident there will be no impact from the proposed changes from the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau.
I just wanted to clarify does that mean you -- if they move to flat fee structure which I think is what they're recommending that your profits wouldn't change? Or do you think that the rules just won't get adopted that they're proposing going forward? It's not certain at all that there will be a change to reflect the arrangement.
But if that's what it comes to I think we'll find a way to manage it.
So we are very close.
We have very narrow bandwidth on our markup.
As I said it's 125 basis points.
They're already talking about a flat fee out of the box of 100 basis points.
So it seems to me to be an entirely manageable situation if that's what it comes to.
But I think it's got a long way to go before we can say for sure how it's going to go.
Research Division</strong> And any color on -- of your F&amp;I how much actually comes from the finance side of the business and how much...
Yes we covered that earlier 1/3 from finance 2/3 from product.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And products means? Product means service contracts warranties.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And my last question I just want to clarify.
You made comments that you gained share.
But when I look at the same-store sales you were -- on the new side you're up 6% which was pretty in line with the market.
Were you gaining share in just the markets where you rolled out the new brand or am I just misreading the data? No that's correct.
In the markets where we changed the brand.
Research Division</strong> Okay because last year you actually did -- outperformed.
So any reason why you're just in line this quarter? Is there a brand mix per geography? We are overweighted on the Japanese.
50% of our retail unit volume new is branded Asian primarily all that's Japanese.
Last year was a recovery year for the Japanese after the collapse of 2011 due to the earthquake.
Therefore we benefited from the overrecovery of the Japanese last year.
The next question is coming from Rod Lache of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> It's Dan Galves in for Rod.
Just 2 quick questions.
The first one as late-model supply of used cars does start to improve and acquisition prices come down does -- in your opinion does that impact the consumer choice between used and new? And do you think that the OEMs will respond in terms of lowering the price on new to counteract that? No I really don't see that happening whatsoever.
Mike do you want to add anything? Well I think the OEMs have a big incentive to support their CPO product.
And they -- what they do is when that gap gets tight they will put interest rate incentives or other warranty extensions to make that CPO product more desirable.
I think they need to support both.
What -- I think the reference there is as more supply becomes available I think it will be slightly less competitive and maybe give us some gross margin opportunity.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one other one a more modeling-based question.
The incremental $18 million of re-branding spend in the first half this year should we consider all of that to be onetime in nature and so won't be in the cost structure next first half? That's correct.
And the last question is coming from Brett Hoselton of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> First I want to start off on used cars and just it sounds like you made a personnel change in your used car department.
You've seen some positive changes there and so therefore you're optimistic about the outlook for your used car performance from a volume standpoint going forward.
Is that a fair conclusion? I think it's more than just one person although we did bring in new leadership.
I think Mike Jackson called out earlier that we were very open about our dissatisfaction with our performance and felt there was more there.
Our whole team is focused on the very basic fundamentals of used and what we felt we needed to do.
And we put more training resources we've got more people in the field we're working hard at acquiring product at the right time at the right price.
So it's a comprehensive effort.
And that's what gives us confidence that we think going forward we'll be able to continue to perform in a good way here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And we've seen wholesale prices at the auctions kind of drifting down a little bit which would suggest that we might see a little gap or increase in the gap between the value of the used car versus the new car which might allow you to improve your gross profit per unit or discount your used car prices more.
Do you think it will have any effect on your gross profit per unit or volume? Not sure.
I don't think we've seen that much weakening in prices.
And really you really have to go inside and look at the segments.
So the more desirable the product the less movement in price.
So used car prices are holding up pretty good.
I think that our opportunity is really on the execution side and I think everybody in our organization knows that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the parts and service margins 3 quarters in a row you've seen some year-over-year improvement there.
It sounds like you've seen some company-specific initiatives positively impacting you as well as some market dynamics positively impacting you.
The outlook seems like we should continue to see some improvement there.
Is that -- would that be reasonable -- would that be a reasonable expectation? I think that's a reasonable expectation.
Research Division</strong> And then finally just on acquisitions.
You bought a couple of Japanese and Korean brands.
Your thoughts on brand preference.
The domestics certainly are doing well recently and their product has certainly improved over the years.
Do you have any particular brand preference or bias at this point in time? As often discussed our strategy is to have all the major brands in any market that we are in.
So if you look at these acquisitions those were brands that we were missing in those markets.
If you look at last month in Texas we were missing the Chrysler franchises so we bought a big Chrysler store.
So that really -- filling out our offering to the market is our #1 acquisition goal.
We want to really be able to say to a marketplace that if you live or work in one of our branded markets you have to shop us.
There's us and everybody else.
And to really have that said in the marketplace in the most compelling way you really need to offer all the major brands.
And as I discussed earlier I think that the Detroit renaissance is for real.
It's sustainable.
The products are marvelous.
The Europeans have a unique selling position and we have a big position with the Japanese.
So we're very comfortable with where we are at.
So thank you everyone for joining us today.
We appreciate it very much.
Thank you.
This will conclude today's conference.
All parties may disconnect at this time.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to AutoNation's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Cheryl Scully Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations for AutoNation.
Ma'am you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to AutoNation's Second Quarter 2013 Conference Call and Webcast.
Leading our call today will be Mike Jackson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mike Maroone our President and Chief Operating Officer; Mike Short our Chief Financial Officer; and Jon Ferrando our Executive Vice President responsible for M&amp;A.
Following their remarks we will open up the call for questions.
Robert Quartaro and I will also be available by phone following the call to address any additional questions that you may have.
Before we begin let me read our brief statement regarding forward-looking comments and the use of non-GAAP financial measures.
Certain statements and information on this call will constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve risks which may cause the actual results or performance to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Additional discussions of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are contained in our press release issued earlier today and our SEC filings including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K.
Certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules will be discussed on this call.
Reconciliations are provided in our press release which is available on our website at investors.autonation.com.
And now I'll turn the call over to AutoNation's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mike Jackson.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
Today we reported an all-time record quarterly earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.73 in the second quarter 11% increase as compared to adjusted EPS of $0.66 for the same period in the prior year.
Second quarter 2013 revenue totaled $4.4 billion compared to $3.9 billion in the year-ago period an increase of 13% driven by stronger performance in all of our business sectors.
In the second quarter AutoNation's new vehicle unit sales increased 11% and used vehicle unit sales increased 13%.
Our coast-to-coast branding rollout unifying over 200 franchises which began in February has been completed on time and on budget.
The incremental branding cost was $0.06 in the second quarter and $0.09 year-to-date.
AutoNation is well positioned to capitalize on the continued auto recovery with an optimal brand and market mix and a disciplined cost structure.
We continue to drive strong results during the multiyear recovery in auto retail.
Over the previous 12 months AutoNation has acquired 10 franchises and has been awarded 4 new franchises by manufacturers.
The 2012 annual revenue for the 10 acquired franchises together with the anticipated annual revenue of the newly awarded franchises once the stores are fully operational is approximately $1 billion.
Now I'll turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Mike Short.
Thank you Mike.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
For the second quarter we reported net income from continuing operations of $90 million or $0.73 per share versus adjusted net income of $82 million or $0.66 per share during the second quarter of 2012 an 11% improvement on a per share basis.
There were no adjustments to net income in the second quarter of 2013.
Adjustment to net income in prior periods are included in the reconciliations provided in our press release.
In the second quarter revenue increased $522 million or 13% compared to the prior year.
Gross profit improved by $68 million or 11%.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross profit was 71.0% for the quarter which represents 121 basis point improvement compared to the year-ago period.
As part of our AutoNation rebranding initiative we incurred approximately $11.5 million or $0.06 per share of incremental SG&amp;A expense during the second quarter of 2013.
Excluding these expenses our SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross profit would have been 69.3%.
We do not anticipate any additional material rebranding expenses in future periods.
Net new vehicle floor plan was a benefit of $10.7 million an increase of $2.5 million from the second quarter of 2012 primarily due to higher floor plan assistance.
Floor plan debt increased approximately $200 million during the second quarter to $2.7 billion at quarter end as we increased our inventory levels due to increasing sales volumes.
Non-vehicle interest expense decreased $22 million compared to the $22.5 million in the second quarter of 2012 due to the lower debt balances.
At the end of June we had $400 million of outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility and total non-vehicle debt balance of $1.9 billion.
This was a decrease of approximately $21 million compared to March 31 2013.
Provision for income tax in the quarter was $56.5 million or 38.5%.
During the second quarter of 2013 we repurchased 65 000 shares for $2.7 million at an average price of $42.01 per share.
AutoNation has $314 million of remaining board authorization for share repurchase.
As of July 17 there were approximately 121 million shares outstanding.
This does not include the dilutive impact of stock options.
As continued evidence of the strength of our cash flow generation capability our leverage ratio decreased from 2.6x at the end of Q1 to 2.5x at the end of Q2 even after acquiring 3 stores in the quarter.
The leverage ratio was 2.4x on a net debt basis including used floor plan availability and our -- excuse me our covenant limit is 3.75x.
Capital expenditures were $32 million for the quarter.
We expect CapEx to be approximately $180 million for the year.
Capital expenditures which include construction in process are on an accrual basis excluding operating lease buyouts and related asset sales.
Our quarter-end cash balance was approximately $70 million which combined with our additional borrowing capacity resulted in a total liquidity of $864 million at the end of June.
Our strong cash flow generation and best-in-class balance sheet position allow us [ph] to continue to invest in the business and effectively allocate capital to maximize shareholder returns.
Now let me turn you over to our President and Chief Operating Officer Mike Maroone.
Thanks Mike and good morning.
In the second quarter AutoNation delivered a 4.1% operating margin with solid growth in sales and customer care.
We noted continued strong recovery of our important Florida and California markets where combined we had a 12% increase in new and used vehicle sales on a same-store basis.
And in June we completed the rebranding of over 200 franchises under a unified AutoNation name.
As I continue my comments will be on a same-store basis and compared to the period a year ago unless noted otherwise.
Starting with sales.
We're pleased with our overall performance.
We're on a year-to-date basis.
And for the quarter total gross profit for variable operations which combines new vehicle gross used vehicle gross and finance and insurance gross was up over 7%.
And new and used unit volume was also up over 7%.
This was driven by continuous improvement in the new vehicle sales pace that also generated more used opportunities.
Underneath that we experienced new vehicle margin compression that was offset by a very strong overall performance in used vehicles and finance and insurance both for the quarter and year-to-date.
I'll provide more detail as I continue.
Looking at new vehicles in the quarter.
New vehicle revenue increased $202 million or 9% to $2.4 billion a new vehicle sales volume of 71 700 new vehicles an increase of 4 700 vehicles or 7% with increases across all 3 segments.
At $33 450 revenue per new vehicle retailed was up $668 with increased average selling prices across all 3 segments.
New vehicle gross profit of $143 million was off 2% or $2 million in the quarter.
And at $1 996 gross profit per new vehicle retailed was off $176 with compression largely in the Import segment primarily attributable to the whipsaw effect of changing stairstep incentive programs as well as intensely competitive midsized cars where there is heavy volume.
Turning to used vehicles.
Retail used vehicle revenue of $920 million was up $90 million or 11% in the quarter and 50 400 used vehicles retailed an increase of 4 100 vehicles or 9% with increases across all 3 segments.
Revenue per used vehicle retailed of $18 250 increased $313.
Retail used vehicle gross profit of $81 million was up $6 million or 8% and gross profit per used vehicle retailed of $1 606 was off just $18.
Relative to inventory both our new and used vehicle inventory are in good shape.
At the end of the quarter new vehicle day supply was 67 days or 64 600 units compared to 60 days and 49 200 units a year ago.
And our used vehicle day supply was 30 days in line with the year ago.
Rounding out the variable side of the business our finance and insurance team recorded another F&amp;I gross profit per vehicle retailed record of $1 381 in the quarter an increase in PVR of $99 or 8%.
Total F&amp;I gross profit of $169 million increased $24 million or 16% compared to the period a year ago.
We attribute ongoing strong performance in F&amp;I to AutoNation's commitment to process supported by training and rigorous associate certifications.
Next customer care or parts service and collision where we are very pleased with our performance in the quarter with total customer care margin expanding 50 basis points to a solid 42.6%.
The business continued to grow across the board for customer pay warranty internal wholesale parts and collision for both revenue and gross profit.
Overall for the second quarter customer care revenue increased $36 million or 6% to $638 million.
And customer care gross profit increased $19 million or 7% to $272 million.
Continuing the positive trend customer pay gross increased 5% in the quarter making this the 12th consecutive quarter-over-quarter increase for customer pay gross.
Our customer care team remains focused on operational improvement margin improvement and driving sales effectiveness.
This coupled with industry -- increasing industry units in operation will continue to support solid customer care growth at AutoNation.
At June 30 our store portfolio stood at 265 franchises and 224 stores in 15 states representing 32 manufacturer brands.
In a moment I'll turn the call over to Executive Vice President Jon Ferrando who will share an update on corporate development activity.
In closing as I mentioned earlier we probably completed the branding of over 200 of our Domestic and Import franchises in June.
As we rolled out the brand Mike Jackson and I traveled across the country and were met with an outpouring of enthusiasm from our 21 000-plus associates about uniting under a common brand.
I'd like to thank all of our associates for their commitment to delivering on our brand promises and fulfilling our mission of delivering a peerless customer experience as well as their contributions to delivering another record quarterly EPS.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jon Ferrando.
Thank you Mike.
During the second quarter of 2013 AutoNation completed the previously announced acquisitions of Don Davis Toyota Scion in Dallas and SanTan Honda Superstore and Hyundai of Tempe in Phoenix.
These acquisitions align with our strategy of offering our customers all of our core vehicle brands in our key markets and they enhance our brand mix in our Dallas and Phoenix markets.
The closings were well executed and the acquisition integrations are on track.
The stores are now operating as AutoNation Honda Chandler AutoNation Hyundai Tempe and AutoNation Toyota North Arlington.
Also during the second quarter Mercedes-Benz awarded new franchises to AutoNation in the Atlanta Georgia and Tampa Florida markets.
We expect to complete construction and open these Premium Luxury stores by early 2015.
The Mercedes-Benz franchises will be excellent additions to our platforms in these markets.
Over the last 12 months AutoNation has completed the acquisition of 10 franchises and has been awarded 4 new Premium Luxury franchises by the manufacturers.
The 2012 annual revenue for the 10 acquired franchises together with the expected annual revenue of the newly-awarded Premium Luxury franchises once the new stores are fully operational is approximately $1 billion.
We continue to actively look for acquisitions and new store opportunities with a focus on adding new brand representation within our existing markets.
We will continue to be selective and prudent with our capital with a focus on investing to produce strong returns and long-term stockholder value.
I will now turn it back to Mike Jackson.
Thank you Jon.
During the second quarter we saw continued strength in the auto industry sales as the auto credit environment remained strong.
The consumers continued to benefit from the outstanding vehicle quality and selection available today.
In addition the customer care business will benefit as industry units in operation begin to recover in 2013.
We're at the beginning of a broad-based recovery for the economy in auto retail.
As we open the rest to 2013 we believe that the improvement in new vehicle sales will continue and continue to expect new vehicle sales to be in the mid-15 unit level.
Thank you.
With that we'd be happy to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is coming from Jamie Albertine of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The first thing I wanted to delve into it seems like you've -- or your engine hearing somewhat of a transition as it were from a capital allocations standpoint.
Hearing a lot more about M&amp;A new franchises awarded points.
Can you help us understand sort of how you're thinking about SG&amp;A? We noticed a little bit more deleverage in this quarter than we had anticipated and just kind want to think through that process over the short and quite frankly the longer term.
This is Mike Jackson.
Our capital allocation strategy has not changed at all in 14 years.
It's pretty straightforward.
We first look at the opportunities within the existing business both the needs to maintain the standards and the investment opportunities that are there.
And you can see we have a 14-year track record of investing in the existing business.
Then quite frankly we look at it on an opportunistic basis between buying stock what's available in the marketplace as far as acquisition and at times we have even found debt to be the most attractive thing to buy.
And I think if you look at our performance over that -- coming up on 14 years in September for me it's -- you could see the discipline that's been applied and the shareholder value that's been created.
So depending on what period of time you're in and what is the balance and the opportunities there you see the behavior.
Clearly in '08 '09 and '10 very few acquisitions got done because the gap between what sellers were willing to take and what buyers were willing to pay was too big.
So we now have a backlog of the natural arrival in the marketplace each year of deals.
So there's a lot of people to talk to and the gap on price is much closer so you're able to get it to the finish line on more transactions.
So we're in discussions with a lot of sellers out there.
Whether they will result in deals or not you never know.
You have to keep your discipline on the price side so that remains to be seen.
But at the -- looking backwards we're -- we have been in a phase where the opportunity on the acquisition side has been there and we have acted on that.
That -- or going forward I can tell you the philosophy will be exactly the same.
And what actually happens there will depend on how negotiations go and where the stock goes and price and other variables.
On the cost side I think it's important to keep in mind that we've included in our results here the onetime cost of rebranding the company.
We didn't hesitate to make this investment.
We think it's a great investment.
It's $0.09 so far year-to-date $0.06 in the second quarter.
You could almost double our growth in earnings per share if we hadn't rebranded the company but we did.
And I think it's the right decision for the long term.
And if you look at our leverage ratio without that cost it's below 70%.
But I'd ask Mr.
Short to give more insight on the cost side.
Just to echo what Mike said in the quarter we -- our headline number was 71%.
If you back out the rebranding costs that takes you down to 69.3% which as I've indicated on previous calls our in intent is to operate below 70%.
So absent those rebranding costs that's where we were.
I do think that there were some headwinds we faced in the quarter.
Mike called out some of the PVR pressure that we had on our new vehicles that creates challenges with some of the flow through on the SG&amp;A side.
And of course with acquisitions there are always those integration costs that you incur in the first few months of an acquisition that over the long term pay off in very strong returns but you do have those start-up costs.
So those were the dynamics that we faced during the quarter.
And I think that 69.3% adjusted number is in line with where we'd want to be given the acquisitions that we completed during the quarter.
Your next question is coming from Rick Nelson of Stephens.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to ask you about market share on the new cars side that 7% unit growth how you think that compared to the overall industry and how you'd fare it maybe by -- whether strength was by brand or weakness and geographically as well? Rick it's Mike Maroone.
I think from a share perspective I think we competed strongly.
The numbers reported for retail vary tremendously.
But I think we're very satisfied with 7% especially in the midst of rebranding 200 franchises.
I think that in terms of who's strong who's weak I think we were very strong with Ford on a unit basis.
So we had great growth with Chrysler on a unit basis with Nissan with BMW.
We're very satisfied with our performance across all 3 segments.
Research Division</strong> Good to hear.
I'd like to ask you on the F&amp;I side too have you seen any changes in pricing there as a result to the CFPB some of their comments? Well my position remains the same that indirect lending as it's called has tremendous added value for all the constituencies the customer most importantly the lender.
And we get an appropriate origination fee.
We're able to provide a very competitive rate to the customer often much better than what they could get in the marketplace.
And we're able to originate loans for the finance institution at a cost lower than what they could do directly.
So when you have a situation like that it's very sustainable.
I would say that even the regulators acknowledge that there's tremendous added value from dealers in indirect lending and that they're due an appropriate compensation for that.
I would say their focus is on of course disparate impact in a broad range.
I think for the big public companies which have had caps in place and procedures in place for a decade it's not much of an issue.
And if lenders were to transition to some sort of flat fee I don't think for the big public companies that would be much of an issue.
However if you are a retailer where your model is dependent upon a wide range of markups I think then you're going to struggle with the transition.
I don't think it's an issue for us from everything I've heard.
Research Division</strong> That counts.
And you don't see any effects as of yet? That $1 375 a unit isn't that quite strong? Yes but you have to look at how we do it.
We do it with excellent penetration to begin with.
Mr.
Maroone I think it's 70% to 75% of the units we sell? That's correct.
70% to 75% of the units we sell we arrange the financing for.
That's almost $9 billion worth of loans.
We originated for instance in 2012 our average margin on that is about 120 basis points which seems to me quite reasonably for all the value that we just delivered.
And by the way there is no discussion with the banks and the regulators that that is an unreasonable compensation for what we generate.
And the number you refer to is only for -- 1/3 of that is for the financing.
The other 2/3 is for products that we generate.
And Mike you can call out a list of the type of products that consumers buy from us.
What's interesting to note of course is that we only show you the commissions on that.
The revenue does not go through on our books so it shows as a 100% margin but that's because we don't recognize the revenue because we're acting as an agent to originate those products.
But they're high-added value for the consumer.
We have very narrow reasonable margins on it so when you have high added value for the consumer and reasonable margins it's sustainable.
So Mike why don't you talk about some of the products that we sell? Well Rick as you know the primary products that we focus on is vehicle service contracts and we think it provides excellent value to the customer.
It also drives more business into our service departments and allows us to focus on retaining customers in both sales and service.
The other product we feature is prepaid maintenance.
And just to give you an idea of how the industry looks at that more and more manufacturers are now including that with the vehicle and we're very happy to see that Toyota being the leader along with Premium Luxury BMW VW and most recently General Motors is introducing it.
So those are the products that we focus on.
There's other products like gap insurance and others that have a lesser impact.
But as Mike said 65% of our F&amp;I revenues comes from those value-added products.
Our compensation plans are heavily skewed to promote those products and we're very confident that we can sustain this level of performance or even get better.
Though Rick there can be in principle a debate about the disparate impact whether it's applied to housing autos or other things and whether that's an appropriate regulatory step or not.
I think someone other than us will discuss that.
Certainly for large companies and large financial institutions that have had caps in place for decades the differences are so narrow and so tight that I really don't see an issue there.
And if there is a transition to a different compensation system I think it will be manageable for us.
The next question is coming from John Murphy of Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a first question on SG&amp;A just to follow-up and I just want to make sure we get this straight because I think we didn't comprehend this as well as we should have in our estimates for the second quarter.
There is fully no more expenses coming through in the second half of the year for rebranding.
And it would be safe to assume that your SG&amp;A to gross could operate at a similar level to what the adjusted number would have been in the second quarter meaning in the 69% to 70% range.
Is that a fair statement? Yes.
John you're absolutely correct.
And maybe we didn't make it clear enough going into it that there was a surge of cost and spending around the rebranding that would be fully expensed and fully completed by the end of the second quarter.
So it's not even right to say it was front loaded.
It was all expensed in that period of time and all completed in that period of time and will not -- this $0.09 that I'm calling out will not reoccur in the second half of the year let alone talking about next year.
It will not reoccur starting in the third quarter.
So maybe we could have been clearer on that going in and I had a sense that maybe there was some confusion around that and that's why I wanted to be so explicit today.
Research Division</strong> Well the ongoing number is what matters more.
So now that we understand that I think everybody should be -- should understand it now.
That's very helpful.
Second question.
Obviously you guys should be trusted on allocating capital given your track record whether it's making acquisitions or buying back shares.
So that's kind of easy to understand why you're making that shift.
But I'm just trying to understand as you look at making these acquisitions or ramping up acquisitions and then getting these ad points has anything changed in your relationship with the automakers that's making that avenue of capital allocation more attractive than it may have been historically? No I don't think the critical path for ever -- for us has ever been the approval with the manufacturers.
We have an outstanding relationship with each and every manufacturer today.
That's not to say that if I went back to '05 '06 '07 that we didn't have a different view about inventories and where the industry was and where it was going.
That was rather contentious but I think everybody -- every manufacturer acknowledges today that our point of view was correct and where the industry is in a better place today.
So we're really back to a sense of partnership which is selling cars and taking care of customers.
And certainly the manufacturers have seen the advantages of the large group large publicly traded groups in that when it comes time to step up to meet standards on facilities we can do it across the entire enterprise in a very professional way.
And then when it comes to investing strategically long term where we think customers will be we have the scale and the ability to do it.
So there's a great sense of partnership.
So that is not the critical path.
I would say it's absolutely price.
And that may sound simple price but I think to lose sight of price around acquisitions vis-à-vis what you can do on share repurchase is a critical mistake in capital allocation.
And you can't fall in love passionately with one or the other.
It's got to be a cold calculation looking at where you can get the best return.
And that's why I said to the point that even at times we looked at and said "We can buy our debt at a discount.
That's the best place for our capital." So the only thing that's etched in stone for us is that we will invest in the existing business.
There will be capital need and capital opportunity in our existing business every year and every year that comes first.
And then we look at it opportunistically from there.
And if you look just at share repurchase well the point of share repurchase is a to not only why you're improving the operating of the business is to reduce the share count.
So we were very disciplined not to give out shares on acquisition not to give out options like confetti that you then have to take your capital and buy them all back just to get back to where you were.
So I think our track record of creating value is strong.
So that philosophy remains the same going forward.
We recognize or acknowledge we're in serious discussions with a lot of sellers but I could easily be sitting here a quarter from now and not have a single deal to talk about because of the -- if we don't come to agreement on price we're not going to do the deal.
Research Division</strong> Very refreshing.
Last question on the customer care business.
We're starting to see a good acceleration there in the same-store sales comps.
And I'm just curious if you think we're really just at the early stages of this recovery of UIOs in the 0- to 5-year-old or 0- to 6-year-old range that are your sweet spot.
Because it seems like there might be some more to come but we're already seeing some really good benefit.
So I'm just trying to understand sort of what inning you think we are in that surge of those vehicles.
For units in operation for customer care we're in the first inning.
And the only thing we have to debate is whether it's the top of the first or the bottom of the first.
That's how early we are in units in operation recovery for automotive.
And it's a mathematical calculation that we have -- we could literally tell you for which brand on which day the bottom point is and when it turns and moves in the right direction.
So we have made a significant investment in customer care both from the point of view that we think we can genuinely attract more business through convenience value and security our proposition to the consumer.
At the same time anticipating the term which is this year means it can be a very rewarding period for customer care.
Mr.
Maroone what would you like to add? Well just that 2 years ago Mike Jackson challenged our team to refocus more effort more resources on customer care.
We brought in a new leader a very skilled gentleman out of Mercedes Alan McLaren.
He has rebuilt the team adding talent from Pep Boys and from inside the industry.
So we've added talent we've added analytic capability and we're now at the stage of making a greater investment in customer-facing technology.
The idea being to speed-up the transaction to provide more accurate information to customer to have a clearer line of communication between the technician the advisor and the customer.
And we're in I think we're at 9 stores into our rollout of that pilot and it's impressive.
And I think that commitment is timely.
You had asked the question on the UIO.
The increase in the UIO of that 0- to 5-year population only increased by 1% from the first quarter to the second quarter and it's still below where the UIO was a year ago.
So I'll call it the top of the first inning to use Mike Jackson's terms but we're very optimistic about the opportunity.
We've really focused on speeding up the transaction on express service on tires extending hours and most importantly putting more talent in the space.
So it's a real bright spot for our business.
The next question is coming from Simeon Gutman of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So Mike AutoNation has been pretty transparent on its thoughts regarding the stair steps and so mentioned as a reason this quarter that gross profit was hurt a little.
Can you characterize the environment there? Meaning are manufacturers leaning towards stair steps even more than versus a year ago whatever timeframe? And then the other comment that was made regarding some of the competition some of the mid-sized imports is that more a dealer-to-dealer combat in local markets? Or is it that coming vis-à-vis manufacturer price decreases and that's not being passed through in the same way that it was to the dealer before? So on the epic struggle of stair steps we have one breakthrough to report and that's Nissan.
And Nissan was very aggressive on stair steps for a very long time and I think to the point where the brand was hurt in the sense that they were selling the deal more than they were selling a very fine product.
And over time that erodes your position.
And when you paint yourself in a corner like that it's not so easy to get out of.
But there's new determination at Nissan a real commitment to get it right.
And if I look at their actually changing the transaction prices changing the MSRPs and adjusting their incentives to a more tactical basis rather than a strategic basis is a bold step.
It will take some time to fully get through it but I think they should be applauded and admired for what they've done.
So that's a breakthrough.
We'll see where it leads.
We have other companies that firmly believe stair steps are where to be and so the struggle goes on.
And your second point I would say stair steps unleash whipsaw competition at the retail level where you have basically told the customer unless the customer shops exhaustively to find out where the greatest stair step is hidden that the customer's a fool.
So you put the customer into the marketplace knowing the customer has to go 5 6 7 places to find the weenie where it's been hidden.
And it's not very customer friendly.
That's one of the reasons I'm -- it's certainly out of step with today's customer.
But if you to tell the customer "That's what you have to do to get the price " the customer will do it.
So it unleashes a vicious competition at retail.
And even when stair-step programs and the customer is still trained to do that so you have a hangover effect it takes quite some time to clear us out.
The white hot spot on this whole issue right now is Japanese midsized sedans which is a big part of our business and also subcompact sedans.
That's where you really see it.
And we applaud the step of Nissan and hope that the level of stair steps mitigates in the future.
Mike you want to add anything? Just the only thing I'd like to add to it is you've got to take your hat off to the domestics who now have introduced products and the Koreans that really give the Japanese imports a run for their money.
The Fusion is just hot hot hot.
The Sonata has been very effective.
Chevy is retooling the Malibu.
And I just think the competition is really intense.
The segment is very large.
And Mike's already called out all the challenges of the stair-step programs.
Research Division</strong> Yes and I guess look we see on a high level the gross profit per unit over time has given back some.
So do you think that this period was unusual and that we could see a bounce back? Or is that memory that Mike Jackson mentioned is that going to take some time to wean the customer off of? Well our philosophy is the diversified approach.
And nobody knows the answer for sure but the challenge to us as a management team is always to find a way to rebalance it.
So what I look at it when I look at our variable result per vehicle retailed if I take it all in all units new used financed insurance products we actually had an increase despite the challenge in front-end gross profits on the absolute new car.
So we're always -- we always have ways to try to balance.
We've successfully done it in here.
I think we'll successfully do it in the future.
In the meantime we're doing anything possible to stabilize new car front-end grosses and look for opportunities to improve them but I can't guarantee you that will happen.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a follow-up on the parts and service side.
So the incoming wave of younger cars we're seeing I think that is a bit easier more clear-cut given that the manufacturer warranty et cetera and typically the dealers typically retain a higher percentage in that bucket.
But my question's on the older vehicles the older vintages that you're servicing which I think your business did a great job during the downturn.
But can you talk about now the retention of the older age groups? What's the experience been over the past year or so and anything in particular that you're focused on.
Because I think those cars are chunkier from a spending perspective.
Depends on your definition of old.
What are you calling out as old? Research Division</strong> Not really like 6 to 10 to 12 years tops but 6 to 10 years roughly.
The 6 to 10 years is a very small part of our business I would say -- Mike what would you say? It's about 30%.
And obviously you've got a very complex product that's not easy to be serviced.
The mechanical breakdown aspect of it is not easy for your independents to handle it.
I think our retention activities that we've undergone in customer care our communication our marketing efforts really applies to both segments.
So I think we can deal with whatever headwind there is there with this very rapid growth in UIO we're going to experience.
The next question is coming from Rod Lache of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Dan Galves standing in for Rob Lache from Deutsche Bank.
I have a couple of questions.
First one on kind of the combination of new growth plus F&amp;I what's your view of how that would be impacted as interest rates go higher? I think the benchmark rates for auto loans were up maybe 20 30 basis points in the quarter.
Did you see any impact in the quarter and kind of what's your view if interest rates continue to rise back towards historical levels? This is Mike Jackson.
Obviously automotive retail very much is in the short end of the yield curve both for funding our inventory and what the financial -- the instruments the financial institutions use to fund auto loans.
No we're not really impacted by 10 20 30 year rates.
And I expect it to be quite some time until short-term rates begin to move.
And if they do move it's unequivocal that it'll be because you have a dramatic -- you have an economy that's dramatically strengthening.
So if you said "Mike what's your choice: a weak recovery with low rates or a strong economy with normalized rates?" I would take the second.
I think it's a better place to be.
So also for our customers 100 basis points on an average car loan is $15 a month so it's manageable.
But I think -- and we did not see rates move in the quarter on lending you mentioned 20 30 basis points.
We didn't see any movement in the quarter.
So I think it's -- a I think it's quite some time until you see material movement on rates on the short end of the curve.
And when it does move it will be because it's unequivocally indisputably a strong economy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate that I was just -- I was actually talking about the benchmark like the 3-year swap rates that were up 30 basis points.
Okay excellent.
Research Division</strong> So you know.
And the second question has to do with customer care really 2 parts.
Someone brought up the 6- to 10-year age group.
It looks like that units in operation in that group will fall pretty significantly over the next couple of years.
If that's 30% of your business how does the UIO decline combined with increasing complexity which probably helps you quite a bit like what do you see of the impact on that 30% of your business? And if you have any sense of kind of where your capacity utilization is on service space currently? I'd appreciate any color on that too.
On the capacity issue we've continued to renovate facilities and add capacity.
I think we've got the capacity to handle that business.
The 30% that we quoted is of the customer pay and warranty business not of the total business.
And I think given our retention efforts we're well equipped to grow our market share in that segment.
The next question is coming from Adi Oberoi of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I have another question on the customer pay business.
Obviously a great performance in the quarter from a comp standpoint.
But correct me if my understanding is wrong here but I don't think a big part of that was driven by the increase in UIO.
So can you just please elaborate what were the key drivers? Was it more internal or what led to that strong performance in this segment? Our customer pay business is about 42% of overall of our customer care business.
And we've put an incremental marketing spend -- we're going to spend about 30% more in marketing this year.
We've done some very good work with our analytics group on pricing and begun to put the tools in place to allow our stores to focus on the pricing.
And I think overall we're just trying to compete in all segments of that customer pay business both with a very robust tire program that's now on its second year a real focus on express service and really modernizing our whole communication and service.
So there's a lot of focus a lot of effort a lot of talent there to drive that customer pay business in advance of the UIO.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful guys.
And just a follow-up on that like if the mix of tire sales in the overall P&amp;S segment is going to grow typically our understanding is that the margins in the tire segment are lower than your average margin in the overall segment.
So could it pressure margins in the near term do you think? I don't think it that's big of a piece today but we have really worked hard on the margins in our tire business.
Our tire business gross margin is up about 20%.
But I think we want to compete in all segments of the service business and whether it's express tires low margin high margin we want to serve the customer and be a full-service provider.
So we're willing to compete and I don't think it's going to impact our overall margins.
Our margins in the quarter were expanded 50 basis points in spite of a growing tire business.
The next question is coming from Yejay Ying of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow-up again on the interest-rate environment question but maybe more on how it pertains to your own capital structure.
So how do you see this environment impacting your floor plan/corporate debt over the coming quarters? Are there any hedges in place? Or is this just not a concern at this point? Yejay it's Mike Short.
We don't have any hedges in place.
Our corporate debt structure is about 50% fixed 50% variable -- we're a little bit more fixed maybe 55% 45%.
And we're happy with that structure.
As Mike talked about well a lot of our -- the duration the maturity of our capital structure is fairly short term so we like the short -- operating on the short end of the yield curve and don't see a reason to want to hedge that.
If there is a movement in the yield curve we see that more at the longer end of the curve.
So we're not overly concerned about it.
Now on the floor plan side we're about 50%.
It's entirely variable but as Mike pointed out earlier to the extent that we see rates going up that might drive the short term rates higher that's going to be coincident with an improving overall economic environment which we're happy to operate in that setting.
Research Division</strong> Right.
That make sense.
Could you give a bit more color on your used inventory as well? So maybe a breakdown how is the late-model used supply looking versus the older earlier models? And are you starting to see improvements in off-lease supply? It's Mike Maroone.
We've definitely seen some improvements in supply.
It's still not where we would like it to be but there is a very robust CPO business.
CPO increased 17% for us in the quarter.
It's about 30% of our used business and we are seeing more availability there.
So even in the last 2 quarters we've seen some dramatic shifts in product.
We've also tried to add capabilities both buying vehicles online putting together centralized buying teams and doing some other kind of out-of-the-box things to increase our used-vehicle availability.
We're really pleased with our used business and to get a 9% volume growth on a same-store basis is a good step for us.
We're hoping there's even more there.
Research Division</strong> And one final question if I could sneak it in more housekeeping.
With regards to the F&amp;I growth F&amp;I per vehicle that you guys saw could you break out what the contribution was from the financing side and what the contribution was from insurance? We break it out really from a product versus rate.
The rate contributes about 35% props contribute 65%.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I meant more of how much did the rates I guess grow of that 7% year-on-year growth.
What was the rate side of it and maybe what was the product side of it? There's stronger growth on the product side than there was on the rate side.
I don't have it at the tip of my fingers.
I'm sure we can get that to you.
The last question is coming from Irina Hodakovsky of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on SG&amp;A expense.
Excluding the $11.5 million in cost and the rebranding efforts your gross profit throughput rate was only 35% potentially below the 3-year average that you've put out there.
And you mentioned integration start-up costs which impacted the second quarter as well.
So where are you in that process? Should we be expecting a normalized run rate going forward or perhaps another quarter of elevated like slightly elevated expenses? Irina I pointed out 2 things in addition to the rebranding costs.
One is the front-end gross margin compression that Mike and Mike discussed earlier; and then secondly the acquisition and integration costs.
Those typically come in over the first couple of quarters following an acquisitions as you get systems aligned and people in place.
So that's a couple of quarter time period over the first few quarters following an acquisition.
Research Division</strong> And then my last question is on the used vehicle side.
The volume is very very strong and you’re really delivering on the process to improve the used vehicle sales there very encouraging.
And I wanted to ask you on the gross profit per unit.
It pulled back slightly on a year-over-year basis.
And what we're picking up in the industry in talking to other dealers the majority are reporting an increase on a year-over-year basis.
Can you detail what is happening in your specific operations? Yes.
We are down $18 on a $1 600 base year-over-year so it's less than 1%.
If I look inside the segments we grew margins in Domestic in Import.
There was a little more pressure in Premium Luxury as it's a quite a competitive market.
There were some shortages in some new products that are caused by some upcoming product launches and so that off-lease Premium Luxury car was in a lot of demand.
But all in all I think that there's -- I think there was a very solid job done in used to drive the volume and the gross at that kind of level.
Research Division</strong> So more or less a result of perhaps driving volume really improving volume there and will stabilize going forward? We would like to stabilize or even get better going forward.
Again 2 of the 3 segments grew 1 put a little pressure.
But all in all our total gross combining everything is up 8% on the used side on 9% volume so pretty comparable.
Thank you everyone for joining us today.
This will conclude today's conference.
All parties may disconnect at this time.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to AutoNation's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect.
Now I will turn the call over to Ms.
Cheryl Scully Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations for AutoNation.
Ma'am you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to AutoNation's Third Quarter 2013 Conference Call and Webcast.
Leading our call today will be Mike Jackson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mike Maroone our President and Chief Operating Officer; Mike Short our Chief Financial Officer; and Jon Ferrando our Executive Vice President responsible for M&amp;A.
Following their remarks we will open up the call for questions.
Robert Quartaro and I will also be available by phone following the call to address any additional questions that you may have.
Before we begin let me read our brief statement regarding forward-looking comments.
Certain statements and information on this call will constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve risks which may cause the actual results or performance to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Additional discussions of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are contained in our press release issued earlier today and our SEC filings including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K.
And now I'll turn the call over to AutoNation's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mike Jackson.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
Today we reported our fourth consecutive all-time record quarterly earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.75 for the third quarter a 14% increase as compared to adjusted EPS of $0.66 for the same period in the prior year.
The third quarter 2013 revenue totaled $4.5 billion compared to $3.9 billion in the year-ago period an increase of 14% driven by stronger performance in all of our business sectors.
In the third quarter AutoNation's total new vehicle unit sales increased 13% and used vehicle sales increased 15%.
This is the highest quarterly total retail unit sales since the third quarter of 2006.
AutoNation also announced that it signed agreements to acquire O'Hare Honda and Hyundai in Chicago Illinois with our -- expanding our existing footprint in the Chicago market.
Annual revenue for these stores is approximately $85 million.
This will be AutoNation's 22nd Honda store and its 6th Hyundai store.
Now I'll turn it over to our Chief Financial Officer Mike Short.
Thank you Mike.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
For the third quarter we reported net income from continuing operations of $93 million or $0.75 per share versus net income of $82 million or $0.66 per share during the third quarter of 2012.
That's a 14% improvement on a per share basis.
There were no adjustments to net income in either period.
In the third quarter revenue increased $537 million or 14% compared to the prior year and gross profit improved by $74 million or 12%.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross profit was 69.6% in the quarter which represents a 40 basis point improvement compared to the year-ago period.
Net new vehicle floorplan was a benefit of $12.6 million an increase of $4.7 million from the third quarter of 2012 primarily due to higher floorplan assistance.
Floorplan net debt decreased approximately $147 million during the third quarter to $2.6 billion at quarter end as we brought down days supply.
Non-vehicle interest expense was relatively flat for the quarter at $22.3 million compared to $22.2 million in the third quarter of 2012.
At the end of September we had $320 million of outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility and total non-vehicle debt balance of $1.9 billion.
This was a decrease of $80.5 million compared to June 30 2013.
The provision for income tax in the quarter was $58.8 million or 38.8%.
During the third quarter of 2013 we did not repurchase any shares.
AutoNation has $314 million in remaining board authorization for share repurchase.
As of October 23 there were approximately 121.8 million shares outstanding.
This does not include the dilutive impact of stock options.
As continued evidence of the strength of the cash flow generation of the company our leverage ratio decreased from 2.5x at the end of Q2 to 2.4x at the end of Q3.
The leverage ratio was 2.2x on a net debt basis including used floorplan availability and our covenant limit is 3.75x.
Capital expenditures were $85 million for the quarter.
We expect CapEx to be approximately $145 million for the year.
This is down from our original estimate of $180 million due to the timing of some projects that were pushed into next year.
Capital expenditures were on an accrual basis excluding operating lease buyout and related asset sales.
Our quarter end cash balance was approximately $68 million which combined with our additional borrowing capacity resulted in total liquidity of $940 million at the end of September.
As a result of our proven track record and financial strength Moody's upgraded AutoNation to investment grade during the quarter matching S&amp;P's upgrade from 2011.
We continue to generate strong cash flow and maintain our lean cost structure.
Our focus on effective capital allocation strategy combined with our investment-grade balance sheet enable us to continue to maximize shareholder value.
Let me now turn you over to our President and Chief Operating Officer Mike Maroone.
Thanks Mike and good morning.
In the third quarter we delivered our highest quarterly new vehicle sales on a total store basis in 6 years along with growth in both revenue and total gross profit across all business segments.
In addition we achieved a solid 4.2% operating margin and record quarterly EPS for the fourth consecutive quarter.
As I continue my comments will be on a same-store basis compared to the period a year ago unless noted otherwise.
Starting with sales.
For the quarter combined new and used unit sales volume was up 9%.
And total gross profit for variable operations which combines new vehicle gross used vehicle gross and finance and insurance gross increased 8%.
Looking at new vehicles in the quarter same-store new vehicle revenue increased $203 million or 9% to $2.4 billion on new vehicle sales volume of 73 500 new vehicles an increase of 5 200 vehicles or 8% with increases across all 3 segments.
New vehicle gross profit of $148 million grew $3 million or 2% in the quarter.
Gross profit per new vehicle retailed of $2 012 was off $105 or 5%.
Sequentially we are able to increase gross profit for new vehicle retailed by $16 despite continued pressure in the Import segment.
Looking to Q4 we expect seasonal mix to contribute to a sequential improvement in new vehicle gross PVR.
Turning to used vehicles.
At $893 million retail used vehicle revenue was up $81 million or 10% in the quarter on 50 500 used vehicles retailed an increase of 4 800 used vehicles or 11% with increases across all 3 segments.
Retail used vehicle gross profit of $78 million was up $5 million or 7% and gross profit per used vehicle retailed of $1 539 was off $49 or just 3%.
Relative to inventory both our new and used inventory are in very good shape.
At the end of the quarter new vehicle days supply was 59 days or 60 000 units compared to 58 days and 51 700 units a year ago.
And our used vehicle days supply was 31 days compared to 29 days a year ago.
It was a positive story overall in the quarter for all of our core markets.
Our new vehicle volume was up 12% in California and 7-plus percent in Florida Arizona and Texas on a same-store sales basis.
Rounding out the variable side of the business is finance and insurance which going forward we will refer to as customer financial services to better reflect the service provided.
In the quarter customer financial services gross profit per vehicle retailed was $1 358 an increase of $68 or 5%.
Total gross profit of $168 million increased $21 million or 15% compared to the period a year ago.
We remain focused on full transparency and providing value-added products that help to drive long-term customer retention.
I'll note that our preferred lender network OEM service contract alliances strong product penetration and store-level execution continue to drive our outstanding performance.
As I mentioned earlier total variable operations gross profit increased 8% year-over-year by $30 million to $394 million on a per vehicle basis.
Total variable operations gross profit of $3 177 was relatively stable down just $18 in the quarter compared to a year ago and off $39 sequentially.
Next customer care or service parts and collision where the team delivered a 42.4% operating margin up 20 basis points as the business continued to grow across the board for customer pay warranty internal wholesale parts and collision for both revenue and gross profit as our customer care team remains focused on operational improvement margin improvement and driving sales effectiveness.
For the third quarter customer care revenue increased $34 million or 6% to $631 million.
Customer care gross profit was also up 6% to $267 million an increase of $15 million.
Continuing the positive trend customer pay gross increased 2.4% in the quarter.
This marks the 13th consecutive quarter-over-quarter growth for customer pay gross.
We are pleased with the continued improvement in customer care.
Our customer retention efforts and sales performance are driving improved results as we enter a multiyear recovery.
At September 30 our store portfolio numbered 267 franchises and 226 stores in 15 states representing 33 manufacturer brands.
In closing we continue to focus on the AutoNation brand and the tremendous opportunity it provides our company.
We also continue to work diligently in the area of associate development expansion of our digital capabilities and delivering on our strategic investments in IT that will enhance the customer experience and improve associate productivity.
With that I'd like to thank all AutoNation associates for their commitment and dedication to the company and for bringing our mission of delivering a peerless customer experience to life every day.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jon Ferrando.
Thank you Mike.
During the third quarter AutoNation signed agreements to acquire O'Hare Honda and O'Hare Hyundai in Chicago Illinois.
These acquisitions align with our strategy of offering our customers all of our core vehicle brands in our key markets and the stores will enhance AutoNation's brand mix in the Chicago market.
The annual revenue for these stores is approximately $85 million with 110 associates and annual retail sales of approximately 3 100 new and used vehicles.
We expect to close the acquisitions in the fourth quarter.
And upon closing we will operate the stores as AutoNation Honda O'Hare and AutoNation Hyundai O'Hare.
Over the last 5 quarters AutoNation has announced the acquisition of 12 franchises and the award of 4 new Premium Luxury franchises by the manufacturers.
The 2012 revenue for the 12 acquired franchises together with the expected annual revenue of the 4 franchises awarded to us once they're fully operational is approximately $1.1 billion.
We continue to actively look for acquisitions and new store opportunities with a focus on adding new brand representation within our existing markets.
We will continue to be selective and prudent with our capital with a focus on investing to produce strong returns and long-term stockholder value.
I will now turn it back to Mike Jackson.
Thanks Jon.
The auto recovery continues with the third quarter SAAR the highest level since the recession.
The auto credit environment remained strong and consumers continued to be attractive to exciting new products from the manufacturers.
As we look to the rest of 2013 we believe that the improvement in new vehicle sales will continue and expect new vehicle sales for the industry to be in the mid-15s.
AutoNation remains focused on executing our coast-to-coast brand promises and providing a peerless customer experience as we continue to capitalize on the broader auto recovery.
Thank you.
We'll now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is coming from Rick Nelson of Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Many of your peers have discussed a bit of a slowdown in late September and October.
I'm curious what you're seeing there and pit the outlook as you see it for the fourth quarter I realize that's very back-end loaded.
Yes Rick there's no question that the government shutdown had a disruptive impact on sales.
Business was very strong from all this going through Labor Day.
And once the prospect of a government shutdown became more certain it definitely was disruptive to sales.
I would -- if I were to describe it I would say sequentially it was about a 10% impact and year-over-year you are then running flat rather than having increases.
That phenomenon continued into October.
Now with the government back to work we see a gradual increase in the pace.
You'll have to wait until we announce our October results to see how that all worked out.
But I expect that the increases we saw throughout the year will now resume in the fourth quarter.
How much impact considering we lost the early part of October remains to be seen.
But we're very confident that the final number for the year will be in the mid-15s with the possibility it's over 15.5%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Good to hear.
Also curious on the rebranded stores what you're seeing there in terms of unit growth compared to the markets that they operate in.
Does it take a while for that new brand to take hold or...
Well we never said that we felt the brand would be an instant market share benefit.
Probably in the short run it's disruptive to walk away from 100-year-old local market brand.
I think the fact that we've just set the fourth all-time consecutive record performance of the company says the marketplace will accept it.
Because imagine we're selling customer care service and parts finance insurance used cars and new cars under that brand.
I would say overall we are holding our own on share with no significant game.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And finally you've announced some new acquisitions.
If you could characterize the M&amp;A environment today maybe versus a year ago or 2 years ago how that looks to you? Yes.
Rick this is Jon Fernando.
I think the market is clearly more active than it was 3 or 4 years ago when you had the major disruption in the marketplace.
I would say over the last year or 2 it's become more normalized with prices becoming rational and balanced.
So what we're seeing out there is a solid pipeline of deals across the country.
You've seen us close on some of those over the past year.
The largest auto retailer in the U.S.
and with our financial capacity we get a large number of opportunities brought to us and probably look at 15% to 20% for every deal that we actively pursue and ultimately close.
So we see a good environment over the next several years to continue.
The next question is coming from Simeon Gutman of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Dan filling in for Simeon.
Just a quick one we're sort of looking at the balance between manufacturer supply and consumer demand.
Can you comment on any changes that may be happening there? Is -- does that balance still feel like it's intact? Or are you starting to see it top one way or the other? Dan it's Mike Maroone.
I think there's good balance.
There is very rational incentives out and we haven't seen a spike in incentives.
The inventories are in a very good way.
We're in the 59- 60-day supply.
I think the -- or the industry is very healthy and we're not seeing the kind of the disruptive behavior that we saw years ago.
So I think we're in good shape.
Research Division</strong> Great that's helpful.
And then just one other quick one.
Can you kind of comment on I guess the -- sort of the percent of lease turn-ins that are being bought and retailed at store? And are you seeing any changes with residual values being above market prices? I think that the used car market is very strong.
It's especially strong in the 2- to 3-year cars coming off lease.
Those are performing at a very high level.
The longer-term leases that have higher miles are probably where they are supposed to be so I don't see any deterioration.
The used car market held up very well over the summer and we are active buyers of off-lease product.
We think they're very good for customers.
They provide big CPO opportunities and our CPO business is growing even faster than our used business overall.
The next question is coming from John Murphy Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a first question on the acquisitions and the new points.
I mean $1.1 billion is a big number in absolute terms and it's big relative to even your revenue base.
It's about 6%.
Do you think the acquisitions and the new points could continue at that pace? I mean not to put you on the hook for an exact number but I mean is this the kind of thing you think you could keep up at a similar rate over the next year or 2 or 3? John it's Mike Jackson.
That's a very difficult thing to forecast and you really have to look at our track record to figure out what we'll do with capital allocation.
It's very opportunistic.
It really depends on the circumstances.
And we -- our first investment is always on the existing business.
We've been very astute at our share repurchase $7 billion at an average price of just under $17.
And now as Jon has described we see the opportunity to build out our footprint in our existing markets and we're moving on that.
We're in a lot of discussions.
You'll always need deal discipline around price and you never know whether they get to the finish line or not.
And that's one of the reasons why I don't want to make a forward statement because it weakens my hand in a negotiation if I put a stake in the ground that says we're going to go out and do x deals a quarter.
And I simply want to stay in the position that we can stop at any time if the pricing gets out of whack of what we're willing to pay.
So that's the main reason I don't give you a forward statement.
I think the activity is there.
Whether the price agreement will be there is a wild card that I cannot predict.
Research Division</strong> Great.
We appreciate you've remained disciplined obviously.
That's good.
Second question just as we look at the parts and service I mean you guys have been putting up mid-single-digit same-store comps for really 2 years straight now and it seems like we're just about or hitting the nadir in the growth of these 0- to 5-year-old cars that will flow through your parts and service bays hopefully more aggressively.
I mean do you think you can keep these mid-single same-store comps up in parts and service? And potentially is that 0- to 5-year-old car population maybe even accelerated a little bit? I'm just trying to understand how you're thinking about that going forward.
I think mid-single digits is a very reasonable way to look at it.
There's no question that the 0 to 5 car population is going to grow rapidly.
Next year we're looking at something like plus 9% in the 0 to 5.
However in the period of vehicles that are from 6 to 10 years old that's going to take a couple of years to work through so that counterbalances it somewhat.
So that's why I say mid-single digits is a very predictable place to be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the October sales if it slowed down maybe at the beginning of the month sounds like they're picking up a bit.
It doesn't sound like there's a change in incentive activity which is a good thing from the automakers.
But have you seen anything on marketing dollars to either the dealers or just broadly in the market to really kind of offset some of this disruption and the insanity that -- in D.C.
that really created some disruption with the consumer to really try to get people back in the showroom and feeling a little bit better about buying a car? John it's Mike Maroone.
What we have seen with just a couple of brands is we've seen some enhancements to the volume-based incentives which as you know we're not a big fan of.
But overall the incentive behavior has been very rational and I think everyone that I've talked to is very optimistic about the fourth quarter.
And I think you'll have a good competitive marketplace.
But so far very well behaved.
Yes.
I think John the general view within the industry is that yes this government shutdown was disruptive but it's clearly over and that nothing extraordinary needs to be done because the big drivers of replacement need exciting new product and financing remain.
And therefore everyone expects the pace to pick up again.
To what extent we still have to wait and see.
But I don't see anybody looking at the situation like let's say if you go back to September of 2001 where the view was clearly something had to be done to get the market moving again.
That's not the view.
The expectation is the sales pace will resume.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one last question Mike Short.
You had mentioned something about the assistance improving.
And I'm just trying to understand is that just relative to you turning your inventory faster and making more money on the assistance relative to the floorplan interest expense? Or has there been an actual change in assistance program -- floorplan assistance programs from automakers? There's certainly the strong operating performance on turning the vehicles faster John but there's a piece of it also that's higher assistance from individual manufacturers.
Research Division</strong> And is that rate-based or dollar-based? It's -- on the manufacturer side it's dollar-based.
The next question is coming from Ravi Shanker Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> If I can follow up on what you said on the new side we have seen at least one other dealer this quarter complain about a fairly severe competitive environment out there especially for GSP brands and talking about stair-step incentives which as you said you've been a vocal opponent of.
Have you seen any meaningful step-up in that? I'm not just talking about post the shutdown but just the trend in 2013.
And where do you see that going in the next year or so? Mike Maroone.
I think that we're seeing it really in one segment.
That's the Import segment.
There's a little bit in the Domestic segment but Premium Luxury is pretty rational.
We're actually seeing our margins expand there.
The margins in Domestic are off a very small amount very tiny amount.
The real pressure's in Import and the pressure is in the midsize segment.
So we are seeing volume-based incentives.
I'm not seeing more people come into the game in terms of more brands coming into the game but the volume-based incentives are disruptive.
And again the pressure is heavily in the Import segment.
With that said sequentially our margins were up.
And as we look to the fourth quarter we think we're going to get a benefit based on mix.
So I don't think it's a dire situation but certainly there's pressure.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Just moving to F&amp;I we've heard that the CFPB is kind of forcing some of the lenders to send letters to some of the dealers.
So can you confirm if any of your dealers have gotten letters? And also it seems like the CFPB is going after the captives as well.
Do you see any step-up in enforcement or any action from the CFPB that'll -- that makes you think that something is going to change in the coming quarters? So there's no question that the lenders have started the testing process.
The methodology they are using is a top secret.
It's not been shared with anyone.
And whenever a methodology is kept secret most likely it's flawed and lacks statistical rigor that would come from a little sunshine.
Now having said that we have received -- our dealers haven't received letters.
We have received several letters and I can basically give you the following assessment.
On a sensitivity of $1 or $2 a month difference in payment -- think about that $1 or $2 a month difference in payment 99% of everything that's been tested so far passed with absolute flying colors.
And a number of deals I would say represent 0.001% of our deals have been said need to be looked at.
And this is with a secret methodology that we believe is flawed.
I think that's confirmation that we have a very robust compliance program and a strict nondiscrimination effort throughout the company over the years so all of that is good news.
However we're dealing with a government regulatory agency that is bound and determined to do something whether a problem exists or not.
So I certainly can't announce an all clear at this point.
If they do something I think it will be to force the industry to go to a -- some sort of fixed compensation for originating loans and contracts.
I think that's going to be very manageable for us.
But that's just a guess at this point.
But I would say the first test results are at least for us our company I can tell you all right it's 99% they can't find a thing.
And on a -- and that's on a sensitivity of $1 a month $2 a month differential that's testing against 6 different protected classes.
And then we have this miniscule thing that we've been asked to look at.
That's what we know at this point.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
That's very helpful color.
And just lastly on P&amp;S can you share what percentage of the cars that you service are 0 to 3 years old and older than 3 years old? It's Mike Maroone.
We break it down into 0 to 5 and that's about 65%.
65% of the VINs that we service are 0 to 5 years.
The next question is coming from Patrick Archambault Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
A lot of my questions have been answered but one on -- remaining one on used margins.
There was an earlier call today where there was a little bit of optimism expressed in terms of used margins coming up just because of lower inventory acquisition costs as leased vehicles -- greater number of leased vehicles came off.
I wanted to see is that something that you're starting to experience? And would you expect the same kind of opportunity from that going forward? Patrick it's Mike Maroone.
We would anticipate opportunity there.
We -- our margins in the quarter were off slightly about 3%.
But clearly availability is loosening up a little bit and I think that does provide opportunity.
But all in all the used business is very robust.
On a total store basis our volume's up 15%; on a same-store basis up 11%.
And we're very pleased with our performance there and I think there's even more ahead.
Research Division</strong> Okay fine.
And then one other one if I may.
I mean it sounds like as per your comments the industry conferences the SG&amp;A piece of the rebranding seems to be well behind you.
And it sounds like certainly the stores where that's happened the performance has been good.
Can you just -- how do you frame that opportunity though in terms of performance opportunity relative to the overall SAAR your opportunity set based on your brands? I understand that it -- there's a lot of factors that can go into play.
But how do you see the opportunity there from the revenue generation side? Well I'm thinking in a -- this is Mike Jackson.
I'm thinking in a 5 and year 10 -- 5- to 10-year horizon when it comes to something like branding the stores.
And our positioning is that if you live and work in one of our markets I can't make an intelligent decision without considering AutoNation that we will offer everything and that we offer a peerless experience that's different than the competition.
And the benefit that accrues to that is something that gradually builds over time.
But once you establish that momentum it's very tough for the competition to match.
So we're well on our way to having established significant positions in the markets that we're in.
We're well on the way to building out all the brands.
If you look at everything we acquire it's right on that strategy.
And that's the right strategy for us and we have such a head start in doing it.
I don't think anybody else is going to try to match us on it.
And so yes you're asking a very good question.
But the exact moment where I can say that means far more revenue for the company or big market share gains or the ability to have higher margins is very difficult to predict.
But I'm absolutely convinced that when you take our market position strategy combine it with our digital strategy where we say the biggest opportunity in automotive retail is to bridge the gap between the digital experience and the in-store experience and make it seamless when you've combined that I think it's going to put us in a very powerful position in the marketplace.
That's what we fundamentally believe.
That's what we're working on.
I think you're asking a very good question but I would ask your understanding to put an actual number on it I can't today.
But I'm convinced in a 5- to 10-year horizon we are creating a sustainable competitive advantage for the company.
Your next question is coming from Brian Sponheimer Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Mike you've spoken a lot about bad industry habits regarding incentives in the past.
But I guess the other thing that concerns us here a little bit is on the lender side with loans extending beyond 60 months 72 months 84 months.
Do you have any sense that this is somehow a ticking time bomb that may be pulling sales forward as we get into the '14 '15 time frame? I really -- my sense is that's not the case.
There's still -- those -- I think our average contract is still sitting right at 62 63 months something right there.
It only moved by 30 days over the past couple of years so I don't see anything happening that is fundamentally of concern.
And you know me.
I -- when I see trouble I call it out and I got a big mouth and there it is.
So we really -- when we look at the fact that in total the term has not really changed.
On the margin you have some small percentage of clientele that those type of products work for.
But for the core organic business that's not where it's going.
And if I look at how people are making their payments I'm not concerned.
I think it's genuine replacement need.
I can't emphasize enough how attractive the marketplace is finding the new products.
We have the best offering ever especially the offering on fuel efficiency which we did not have in the past.
We used to have to convince people to go slower and smaller tough sell.
We no longer have to do that combined with a very good financing.
The only thing that we're missing in the financing that would concern me if it did come back was the home equity gain.
That gain's over shouldn't come back.
If that came back I would say that's really putting some froth on the situation.
So I think these are genuine replacement pent-up demand sales more a journey back over $16 million $17 million.
And I don't think we're selling the seeds of the next downturn with some of these long-term products.
Inc.</strong> All right that's helpful.
And I guess along those lines one other thing and I think I know what the answer's going to be.
As off-lease vehicles repopulate the market starting in the next few months or so do you see that pulling away from new vehicle sales maybe someone's using up-contented 3-year-old vehicle versus a lower-content new vehicle? Brian it's Mike Maroone.
I don't think so.
And our average lease term right now is 36 months so you're seeing vehicles that are 36 months old coming back in the market.
They generally don't compete.
And the big advantage we have is we can certify them and sell them as certified preowned which is a real great value for consumers.
If I could add one thing to Mike Jackson's prior statement we've tracked our average term from a financing point of view back into the '07 time frame and we are exactly where we were in '07.
We have been very consistent at 63 62 61.
We're now at a 63.
So Mike called it right and we're not seeing any extended term pressure in the marketplace.
The next question is coming from Colin Langan UBS.
Research Division</strong> Oh great.
Any color -- going back to the CFPB I mean have any of the lenders that you work with changed the payment practices following the CFPB bolt-on earlier this year? No.
We haven't seen any change at all.
And when you talk to the lenders they are all loathe to be the first to move because the system that is in place works extremely well for the consumer for the financial institution and we get reasonable compensation.
It's highly efficient.
So they are very concerned to disrupt something that gives them a pipeline of loans in one of the most cost-effective ways you can imagine.
And the first mover could have some difficulties depending if they have structured it in a way that works or not.
So right now there is -- everyone is standing firm.
The testing is ongoing.
I can't speak for others.
I can only tell you the results of the testing on our portfolio.
I'm not surprised at the results that it's an outstanding position.
It doesn't seem -- it seems to be a regulator looking for a problem that doesn't exist at least as far as our portfolio is concerned.
Maybe there are other issues elsewhere that I don't know about.
But as of the moment no one has moved and everyone says they don't want to be the first mover.
That doesn't mean though that something won't happen.
Research Division</strong> And you mentioned earlier that you seemed -- it seems like the direction is most likely some form of a fixed fee.
Is that a fixed markup percentage or a fixed dollar that you're thinking they're moving toward? It could go either way.
That's being debated and discussed.
What the lenders are saying is look the amount of compensation we pay for the acquisition of these loans is very cost-effective.
Any new system we are not looking to change the total dollar amount of compensation we're paying.
We just want to change the system in how we pay you.
And so if they go to a fixed rate or a flat fee if you're a company like AutoNation which is already in a pretty narrow bandwidth it's a very easy adjustment.
If you're running your business like the Wild West and you're all over the place it's going to be a shock to you.
So I think we're well positioned well prepared.
My preference is why change something that is -- that's working? We'll have to see what happens.
I think whatever happens as far as AutoNation is concerned will be manageable.
Research Division</strong> Do you think -- I mean there's a different percentage today at least on average on new and used.
I mean do you think if they switch to a fixed fee that it would distinguish new and used or you'd go an average for all the loans the lender provides? I think they're looking at an average for all of them.
I don't think they're making a differentiator between new -- the used and new.
All the testing is on the total portfolio not bifurcated along new or used.
The last question is coming from Brett Hoselton KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First on the SAAR your longer-term expectations do you have any sense Mike as to -- or a view on where you think the sales right here in the U.S.
might potentially trend? And then what might be the drivers the things that are necessary to take place to kind of get to that maybe a peak level of sorts? Yes.
I would -- I've always said we're on a journey back to something over $16 million.
And I think -- I still think we're on that journey.
And whether we then turn to a conversation about something more than $17 million I think is dependent upon the fundamental strength of the economic recovery in the U.S.
and whether the employment picture has significantly improved from what it is today.
And so I think that is still an open question at this point that remains to be seen.
I think -- the way I think about it though is the good news is that even if it's somewhere between $16 million and $17 million that's a wonderful place for the industry to be considering the cost structure that exists in the industry today at the manufacturer supplier and automotive retail level.
We don't really need $17 million plus to have very good times.
So I think we can take a wait-and-see.
I think it would take a stronger economic recovery with better employment numbers to take it above $17 million.
There are others who are more optimistic that see that happening just on the replacement rate driver.
If they're right that's all great upside.
But I think the plus $16 million to $17 million -- plus $16 million to -- somewhere between $16 million $17 million is going to happen for sure.
Research Division</strong> And then my second question looking at gross profit per unit thinking about new and used vehicles I think the general impression within the investment community is that there has been some compression in new vehicle gross profit per unit over the past 2 or 3 years and I think that's reasonable.
However as a look back at your results 2004 '05 '06 '07 what I'm -- what I see is I see a gross profit per unit that's not unlike what you're doing currently and I see a used vehicle gross profit per unit that is maybe a little bit higher than when you're at today.
And I'm -- just what I'm wondering is how do you think about maybe the longer-term outlook for gross profit per unit whether it be on the new side or used side? Yes.
Certainly we've done the same exercise and have looked at the whole cycle.
I think we have some unique circumstances here that go back to the earthquake in Japan which caused a serious disruption of the supply of Japanese products and front-end grosses went up dramatically and the Japanese lost significant share.
They would like as much of that share back as they can get and they sort of asked us to work with them on the front-end gross to get there.
So they're very aggressive and we understand that that may be necessary.
At a certain point you have to say though okay now we're sort of -- you've gotten back as much as you're going to get but now we sort of have to go back to as you call out what's the normal front-end gross.
So we've had this abnormal period and it's particularly in the Japanese let's be clear for these very valid reasons.
But now we have to normalize.
So that's the conversation that's going on right now and I'm very -- the first step in anything like this is stabilization.
I'm very pleased on a sequential basis that we have stabilization.
I fully expect in the fourth quarter with the traditional Premium Luxury balance working for us that we'll see improvement sequentially.
And then hopefully we can have a conversation that the idea of getting back to a normal -- let's call it a normalized state that was '04 '05 '06 would be possible.
But stabilization is the first step.
We seem to be there on that first step.
Check with us over the next 3 months.
We'll tell you where we're at.
But I see the -- I see exactly what you're saying.
We'd like to get there.
I can't promise you we will but that's where we're trying to get.
Thank you.
That's it for today.
I appreciate all your questions.
Thank you very much.
Cheryl and Rob are available if anything else comes to mind over the next day or so.
Thank you very much.
This will conclude today's conference.
All parties may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to the AutoNation's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I will turn the call over to Robert Quartaro Senior Manager of Investor Relations for AutoNation.
Sir please begin.
Good morning and welcome to AutoNation's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Conference Call and Webcast.
Leading our call today will be Mike Jackson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mike Maroone our President and Chief Operating Officer; Cheryl Scully our Interim Chief Financial Officer; and Jon Ferrando our Executive Vice President responsible for M&amp;A.
Following their remarks we will open up the call for questions.
I will also be available by phone following the call to address any additional questions that you may have.
Before we begin let me read our brief statement regarding forward-looking comments.
Certain statements and information on this call will constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve risks which may cause the actual results or performance to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Additional discussions of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are contained in our press release issued earlier today and our SEC filings including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K.
Certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules will be discussed on this call.
Reconciliations are provided in our press release which is available on our website at investors.autonation.com.
And now I'll turn the call over to AutoNation's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mike Jackson.
Thank you Rob.
Good morning.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
Today we reported an all-time recorded adjusted quarterly EPS from continuing operations of $0.83 for the fourth quarter a 24% increase on a per-share basis as compared to $0.67 for the same period in the prior year.
Fourth quarter 2013 revenue totaled $4.5 billion an increase of 8% driven by strong performance in all our major business sectors.
We also reported an increase of 20% in operating income to $203 million.
For the full year adjusted EPS for continuing operations of $2.98 was an all-time record up 17% from prior year.
Revenue for the full year was $17.5 billion up 12% over prior year.
Operating income was $740 million an increase of 15% over prior year.
In Q4 2013 we repurchased 1 million shares for $48.6 million at an average price per share of $48.16.
From January 1 to January 29 we have repurchased an additional 2.3 million shares for $111 million on an average price per share of $47.90.
Planning assumption for 2014 industry new vehicle unit sales is 3% to 5% growth with total units above 16 million for the year.
We believe that replacement demand attractive products and strong consumer credit will continue to support sales as we return to the normal selling rate of 16 million units.
I'd like to point out this marks the 1-year anniversary of the launch of the AutoNation brand unifying our former local market brands under one flag AutoNation.
The coast-to-coast rollout of the AutoNation brand involved 23 manufacturing brands and 210 franchises.
Also during this rollout AutoNation has had 4 consecutive quarters of all-time record adjusted EPS from continuing operations.
I congratulate each and every one of our 22 000 associates on an outstanding job.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Cheryl Scully.
Thank you Mike and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
For the fourth quarter we reported adjusted net income from continuing operations of $102 million or $0.83 per share versus net income of $83 million or $0.67 per share during the fourth quarter of 2012 a 24% improvement on a per-share basis.
Our fourth quarter 2013 results exclude $4.5 million which is $0.04 per share of net gains related to property dispositions.
Our fourth quarter 2013 results also exclude $3.4 million with just $0.03 per share of income tax adjustment.
There were no adjustments to net income in the prior year period.
Adjustments in net income are included in the reconciliations provided in our press release.
In the fourth quarter revenue increased $352 million or 8% compared to the prior year and gross profit improved $71 million or 11%.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross profit was 68.6% for the quarter which represents 130 basis point improvement compared to the year-ago period.
Net new vehicle floor-plan was a benefit of $11.8 million an increase of $4.9 million from the fourth quarter of 2012 primarily due to higher floor-plan assistance.
Floor-plan debt increased approximately $489 million during the fourth quarter to $3 billion at quarter end due to increased inventory levels.
Non-vehicle interest expense was flat for the quarter at $21.7 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
At the end of December we had $300 million of outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility and a total non-vehicle debt balance of $1.8 billion.
This was a decrease of $16.4 million compared to September 30 2013.
The provision for income tax in the quarter was $60.6 million or 35.6% which included the previously noted net income tax benefit of $3.4 million related to a favorable adjustment.
From October 1 2013 through January 29 2014 we repurchased 3.3 million shares for $160 million at an average price of $47.98 per share.
Today we announced that our board authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $250 million of AutoNation common stock.
AutoNation has approximately $405 million remaining board authorizations for share repurchase.
As of January 29 there were approximately 119 million shares outstanding and this does not include the dilutive impact of stock options.
As continued evidence of the strength of the cash flow generation capability of the company our leverage ratio decreased from 2.4x at the end of Q3 to 2.3x at the end of Q4.
The leverage ratio was 2.1x on a net debt basis including used floor-plan availability and our covenant limit is 3.75x.
Capital expenditures were $43 million for the quarter and $141 million for the full year of 2013.
Capital expenditures are on a pro basis excluding operating leased buyouts and related asset sales.
Our quarter end cash balance was $69 million which combined with our additional borrowing capacity resulted in total liquidity of $974 million at the end of December.
We are well-positioned to continue to maximize company value and shareholder return.
We continue to demonstrate strong operating leverage robust cash flow generation a healthy balance sheet and disciplined expense management.
Now let me turn you over to our President and Chief Operating Officer Mike Maroone.
Thanks Cheryl and good morning.
In the fourth quarter AutoNation delivered record adjusted EPS from continuing operations for the fifth consecutive quarter.
Additionally we delivered a 4.5% operating margin that when adjusted for the net gain on property dispositions tied our previous record of 4.3%.
And we grew revenue gross profit and margins across all business sectors.
We're very proud of this performance.
Starting with sales for the fourth quarter same store total gross profit for variable operations increased 8% on a combined new and used same-store unit volume increase of 4%.
This was driven by the seasonal strength of Premium Luxury and a particularly strong quarter for AutoNation in this segment.
I'll note that on a total store basis our Premium Luxury segment income increased 28% compared to the period a year ago due in part to a lift from new product launches and the resulting shift in mix within the segment.
I'll also note that Premium Luxury accounted for 46% of our total segment income in the quarter.
Also contributing was a solid performance in used vehicles and another strong showing at customer financial services.
As I continue my comments will be on a same-store basis and compared to the period a year ago unless noted otherwise.
Looking at new vehicles in the quarter same store new vehicle revenue increased $55 million or 2% to $2.5 billion.
On new vehicle sales volume of 71 149 new vehicles an increase of 465 vehicles or 1%.
New vehicle gross profit of $163 million grew $9 million or 5% in the quarter.
Gross profit per new vehicle retailed at $2 292 was up $105 or 5% with the Premium Luxury segment more than offsetting continued pressure in the Import segment.
Sequentially gross profit for new vehicle retailed increased $280 or 14%.
Turning to used vehicles we retailed 47 174 used vehicles in the quarter up 4 300 units or 10% with increases across all 3 segments.
We saw a nice lift in certified preowned vehicles retailed in the quarter and continue to work aggressively to acquire used inventory both internally through increasing appraisals and winning more trades and externally through our we-buy-your-car guaranteed offer program as well as various third party partnerships.
Our used vehicle team is keenly focused on executing on the fundamentals of this business and they are delivering results as evidenced by retail used vehicle revenue of $872 million being up $87 million or 11%.
Retail used vehicle gross profit is $75 million increasing $8 million or 12% and gross profit per used vehicle retailed at $1 598 increasing $27 or 2%.
Relative to inventory both our new and used inventory are in good shape.
At the end of the quarter new vehicle days supply was 62 days versus 58 days sequentially and 54 days a year ago; and compares favorably to the industry which we calculate to be at a 77 days supply.
We remain disciplined with inventory and are well-positioned for the spring selling season.
Our used vehicle days supply was 35 days even with a year ago.
I'll note that on a same-store basis our combined new and used vehicle volume was up 12% in Arizona and Florida and was stable in Texas and California.
Rounding out the variable side of the business is customer financial services a name change for F&amp;I that we made last quarter to better reflect the services provided.
In the quarter customer financial services gross profit per vehicle retailed was $1 378 an increase of $71 or 5%.
Total gross profit of $163 million increased $15 million or 10% compared to the period a year ago.
We continue to be extremely pleased with our performance here.
That's driven by a combination of our preferred lender network OEM service contract alliances store-level execution product penetration and the customer experience where we believe full transparency is a differentiator and value-added products help drive long-term customer retention.
As mentioned earlier total variable operations gross profit increased 8% year-over-year.
On a per vehicle basis total variable operations gross profit of $3 394 increased $132 or 4% in the quarter compared to a year ago and was up $217 per vehicle sequentially.
Next customer care or service parts and collision where in the fourth quarter customer care revenue increased $29 million or 5% to $629 million and customer care gross profit increased $14 million or 6% to $266 million.
At 42.4% our Customer Care operating margin was up 30 basis points as the business continued to grow across the board for customer pay warranty internal wholesale parts and collision for both revenue and gross profit.
In the quarter we noted impressive year-over-year increases of 13% for both warranty gross and internal gross and 3% for customer pay gross.
This marks the 14th consecutive quarterly increase in customer pay gross.
Our customer care team remains focused on operational improvements in the area of traffic appointments and customer satisfaction as well as margin improvement and driving sales effectiveness.
At December 31 our store portfolio numbered 269 franchises and 228 stores in 15 states representing 33 manufacturer brands.
As I close I'll reiterate that we're extremely pleased to have delivered record adjusted EPS from continuing operation for the fifth consecutive quarter and a record tying adjusted operating margin of 4.3%.
It's a fitting end to a perfect year for AutoNation where we re-branded over 200 of our franchises grew with that was acquisitions and add points made significant investments in our digital capabilities and sharpened our operational focus.
We feel that we're well-positioned to grow our brand and take advantage of the opportunities ahead in 2014.
As I turn it over to Jon Ferrando I'd like to thank our 22 000 associates for their commitment and dedication to AutoNation.
Jon? Thank you Mike.
During the fourth quarter we completed the previously announced acquisitions of O'Hare Honda and Hyundai in the Chicago market.
The closings were well executed and the stores are now operating as AutoNation Honda O'Hare and AutoNation Hyundai O'Hare.
During 2013 as previously announced we also completed the acquisitions of Honda and Hyundai stores in the Phoenix market and a Toyota Scion store in the Dallas market.
In addition we were awarded Mercedes-Benz franchises in the Atlanta and Tampa markets which we expect to open by early 2015.
Our 2013 acquisitions and ad points align with our strategy of offering our customers the full range of cars and trucks in our key markets.
Over the last 6 quarters we acquired 12 franchises and were awarded 4 new Premium Luxury franchises by the manufacturers.
The 2013 annualized revenue for the 12 acquired franchises together with the expected annual revenue of the 4 franchises awarded to us once they are fully operational is approximately $1.1 billion.
Looking forward we will continue to actively pursue acquisitions and new store opportunities with a focus on enhancing brand representation within our existing markets.
We will continue to be selective and prudent with our capital with a focus on investing to reduce strong returns and long-term shareholder value.
I will now turn it back to Mike Jackson.
Thank you Jon.
We'll now take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from John Murphy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I have a lot of questions because there's a lot of good things to ask about in the quarter so I apologize I might be a little bit verbose.
Just on SG&amp;A it's 68.6%.
I mean back in our model we go back to 1999 we don't have anything that's even within 50 basis points of that.
It was a really good performance in the quarter.
Is there anything that's unique to the quarter? I know there's obviously seasonality and some things that can happen in the fourth quarter but is this a bogey we should be thinking about for 2014 estimates? And can you do better than this? Which it's very good already I'm just trying to understand how far you can go.
Yes Jon.
It's Cheryl.
We remain focused certainly on the cost side of the business but we are going to continue to invest in digital.
And as you pointed out the fourth quarter does benefit from strong Premium Luxury sales so we're going to continue to focus on that number.
As we've talked about there's some seasonality built into that as well so don't think it's all one direction from there.
But it certainly is a continued focus for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a second question on the share buybacks.
I mean it seems like you're getting very aggressive in the $48 range.
But as your earnings grow you know that number might go up over time.
I'm just trying to understand your thought process on allocating capital.
Is $48 sort of the magic number on the stock price or might that creep up over time? Jon it's Mike Jackson.
Our capital allocation philosophy remains unchanged.
First investments in existing business and greenfield opportunities.
Then we take a close look at the pricing in the acquisition market whether there's strategic fit.
And then on the stock if you look at our track record it's pretty much when we think there's a buying opportunity relative to where we think the stock is going to be in the future.
And clearly with the distress in the markets for -- in the last 6 weeks we viewed that as a buying opportunity and took that step.
So I cannot give you a magic number I will not give you a magic number.
But I think if you look at our -- if you look at AutoNation as a company I think we're really good at 3 things: operational excellence we're in the nitty-gritty retail business we never lose sight of that look at our performance during the downturn; investment in strategic capabilities even if they add cost for an interim period; and finally capital allocation.
And those are the 3 things we put our energy into and I'll stand on our track record.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one more on floor-plan assistance.
It seems like the assistance has gone up relative to the expense.
Is there anything going on where floor-plan assistance has gotten a little bit more robust as inventories have crept up? Yes.
Part of that Jon is volume but then also there was a hinge in a Premium Luxury manufacturer floor-plan program.
So those are the 2 combined factors that you see resulting in the higher assistance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly on F&amp;I PVR $1 370 at [indiscernible] there's a lot of buzz about the CFPB and how this is all going to be dealt with.
I mean what's -- and Mike what's your -- well your view or all of your view on what can happen as far as rate caps or do you just go to straight flats? Or what kind of impact this can have on your business? I know you've dealt with this kind of stuff in the past.
I'm just trying to understand what your current thinking is there and how far this $1 370 could potentially go? Yes so within the $1 370 about $500 of that is the fees that we're receiving from the bank so that's step 1.
I think the business model absolutely is a winner for all parties and all parties acknowledge that and that includes CFPB.
So I don't expect a structural change in the business model.
Now everybody's trying to find common ground where the amount of discretion at the store level can be restricted to the point that the CFPB feels much more comfortable that the possibility of discrimination has been restricted.
Whether that leads to more caps I don't see flats or a solution like an NADA proposed which we're going to try at a few stores.
I call it the Pacifico model where it's a markdown model where management has to sign off on it.
I think there's a lot of discussions.
I think at the end of the day though the business model serves the marketplace the lenders and us extremely well.
It's very effective very efficient for everyone.
There is a reason that 80% of auto loans are originated through the dealers it's because we're very good at it with a lot of added value it saves the customers a lot of money and do very effectively for the bank.
So I don't know the end of the story yet.
And I think it will be on ongoing story but there'll be common ground and I do not expect the fundamental business model to change.
And really our progress on improvement in financial services is around other products.
Mike why don't you talk about that rather than the fees from the banks? Yes John Mike called it out.
I think 67% of our gross there is generated from products and our real focus is on vehicle service contracts and prepaid maintenance products.
And we've dramatically improved our penetration there a lot of our focus our paid plans are driven toward those 2 products and they drive people into our service drive and really make a difference in customer retention.
So the whole organization's focused on providing value-added products there and I think doing a very good job.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
Just one last question on same-store sales up a little bit less than 1% on a unit basis for new vehicles.
That seemed a bit lower than your monthly releases would have indicated.
Is there anything going on on timing there? And also are you making the trade-off on lower volumes in the market to get the higher grosses that you got which were pretty impressive in the quarter? John just to be clear our monthly reporting is based on the manufacturer calendar which is quite different than a GAAP calendar.
Sometimes it could be 2 or 3 days off.
I think in the fourth quarter we had 2 additional selling days according to the manufacturer calendar.
So that monthly figure is what we reported to manufacturers in their retail reporting system the same -- it's the same number that they're announcing and it's on their calendar.
Then when we announced our financial results of course it's on a GAAP calendar with very strict revenue recognition standards.
And from time to time they're not going to line up precisely.
There is a question from Rick Nelson with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> A question on margin improvement in new cars.
It's the first time we've seen that actually and I think going back 10 or 11 quarters.
What do you think drove that and how does that jive with the comments that you made about inventory creep in the industry? Rick it's Mike Maroone.
The improvement in the fourth quarter is in part seasonality of -- most fourth quarters have a heavier weighting of Premium Luxury.
There was a mix shift even within Premium Luxury and then there was some spectacular product launches and we'll call out both the CLA and the S-Class with Mercedes and to execute those 2 and we have a big Mercedes footprint it really helped.
But the whole Premium Luxury segment was strong and it really helped to offset some real pressure in the Import segment and the Domestic segment which was quite stable and pretty pleased with our margin management.
But certainly the quarter was influenced by the Premium Luxury side.
We'll also call out that the Premium Luxury segment was like 46% of our segment income.
So it's a really strong Premium Luxury quarter and we got a lot of benefit from it.
And Rick it's Mike Jackson.
On the inventory situation first our inventories are in line.
But when I talk about the industry inventory I'm really talking about the Detroit 3.
And the Asians are fine and Premium Luxury -- the German inventories are fine.
But we're looking at industry Domestic inventory at retail of 100-plus days.
Now they'll tell you it's something much lower than that but that's because when they calculate retail inventory they're including their fleet sales into the selling rate which of course you should not do.
You should divide retail sales into retail inventory that's the real world.
And there we're saying hey look 100 days I'll give the Detroit 3 and they should probably have the highest inventory because they have the broadest and most complex product offering particularly in trucks and there's a lot of specific trucks you have to offer so I'll give you that.
But 100 days is too much and I certainly don't want to wake up and all of a sudden it's 130 days or 150 days.
So I think it's an appropriate subject to start the conversation about and that over time I think it's very manageable.
As Mike said there's no -- the front end grosses on the Domestics are fine there's no trouble yet.
But we all know that if your inventories get out of control the marketplace dictates you you no longer control the marketplace.
And so it's time to rate the subject and have an appropriate conversation.
Research Division</strong> Okay so that's helpful.
It's more of a warning sign than a current product.
Right correct.
Research Division</strong> I got you.
Any comments on early 2014 sales? I know we've had other challenges in a lot of the country.
No we release next week and I've learned my lesson never to comment on current month's sales.
We give the most visibility of anybody in the auto retail space by announcing each month a new high bar number next week with our thoughts on it.
Here's a question from Michael Ward with Sterne.
Research Division</strong> Cheryl first of all on the acquisitions in 2013 it doesn't look like there was much of an impact from the transaction made in the second quarter in Dallas and in Arizona.
Is there something with the accounting or am I missing something? You'll see that difference in the total and same-store I think.
When you look at the year we had the Boardwalk acquisitions which occurred and that was a lot of transactions than the one that we've done this year.
So they are flowing through the numbers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So what's a good target like revenue impact from the second quarter acquisitions in 2014? If we haven't got out the specifics related to each acquisition I think when you think about it in the aggregate we've got that extra $1.1 billion of revenue that you can expect in over time as the add points also come up to speed as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that -- but some of that doesn't kick until '15 correct? With the new...
Correct.
Correct.
With the add point build-out particularly some of the finality add point build-out and then 2 additional Mercedes that we're going to be building out as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Mike or Jon can you talk a little bit about maybe the bid as spread for acquisitions? Because it seems like the acquisition pace is accelerating.
Has the bid as spread come together or the quality of stores? Is it -- am I right in assuming that it is picking up? Yes Mike this is Jon.
There's a solid pipeline out there right now and I think we'll see it for the next few years.
I think there's a good balance on price.
What I would say is that it's very deal-specific.
We look at a lot of deals and first of course we're looking to make sure they fit within our footprint and our brand and market criteria.
And then when you get down to price on individual deals there are sellers out there that have completely unrealistic expectations.
And then certainly we also run into sellers with reasonable expectations where we can put a fair price on the table for them that also works within our return criteria and then we're able execute and get those deals done.
But I think the next few years there will be sellers a good flow of sellers entering the market.
And I think there'll be good balance on purchase price.
Research Division</strong> Just one last thing.
How was showroom traffic and the closure rates in the fourth quarter versus last year? It's Mike Maroone.
Mike showroom traffic was up.
And of course the e-commerce channel was extremely active so was the phone.
And the shopping parents have changed some but all in all our showroom traffic was up about 3% and we were able to convert at a very strong rate in order to get the volume we did.
So we're pleased with our traffic you'd always like more.
Research Division</strong> Do you think that's a reflection of your branding strategy or is it just the overall market? I think the overall market.
It reflects the overall market.
And I think you'll see continuing strength with our branding strategy.
We did our first branding a year ago we didn't complete the branding until June.
So I think you'll see us continue to gain momentum there but still work to do.
Our next question comes from Patrick Archambault with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Two questions for me.
First on the used side if you just look at the used to new ratio it's been kind of up slightly in previous quarters and it seems to have really kind of taken off here.
I have like maybe like up 0.1 0.2 and then some sort of 0.6 up this particular quarter.
So maybe you could just elaborate how much of that is AutoNation's specific efforts how much of that is maybe some shifts within the segment used versus new that you're seeing in the market? That would be my first one.
It's Mike Maroone Patrick.
There's a lot of interest in the used segment and I think our execution is better than what it's been in the past.
We've really worked hard in acquiring vehicles both winning trades in the showroom and using other methods outside the store to acquire vehicles.
And I think it's helped us a lot.
We've also wholesaled lots so we're retailing higher mileage vehicles and continued to perform at a higher level.
So to us it's both volume and margin.
And this is our second straight quarter I believe of 10% same-store growth and we're pleased with that.
So I think there's still more opportunity in used you just have to really work hard to get the right inventory at the right time and the right price.
I'll also add that the CPO business was stronger.
So I think 32% of our vehicles sold and used were CPO and that was like 29% a year ago.
So more strength in CPO as well.
Research Division</strong> And that's helpful.
I just -- I mean tying that together is that ratio which is I think how a lot of people sort of model and think about it is that something that can continue to rise in your opinion in subsequent years and quarters? We think it's a continued opportunity for us yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And yes I mean I guess one minor clarification from my end as well.
There was a question relating to the additional leverage on SG&amp;A.
I think technology was mentioned as being a part of that outlook and I wasn't quite sure whether that was be careful because there's going to be some investments so we may not get the same level of SG&amp;A leverage on a year-on-year basis in subsequent quarters or was the commentary technology investments we've made will allow us to be more efficient and we'll continue to be able to grind that ratio down? So they're both true -- this is Mike Jackson.
They're both true you just have to get the order right.
We're in the investment stage where I would say we're adding more cost than for what we're getting back.
But ultimately we are absolutely convinced it's going to drive tremendous productivity in the business.
It's sort of like that phase we went through with the shared service center where we had an extended period where we're investing that took our cost higher that then gave us tremendous capability and a lower cost basis.
So we're into one of those phases for digital and I think that'll continue for all of 2014.
There's a question from Rod Lache from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Dan Galves for Rod.
Just on the used market just looking for your view on positives and negatives on used volumes going forward.
It seems like lease terminations -- an increase in lease terminations could be a positive.
Maybe a recovery in scrappage rates could cause more churn in the used market.
Do you agree with those? And what other positives and negatives should we be thinking about? It's Mike Maroone.
I think you called out the right positives.
Certainly there's more of lease returns.
You've got select manufacturers that near the end of the recovery really used leases and lever to get volume.
We love that and those vehicles come in at a very sweet spot in terms of age and mileage.
I can't think of many negatives in the used business other than it's still competitive trying to buy older vehicles and really competing to win those trades.
It's a very competitive business.
As you know we buy them one unit at a time but we do -- we're very optimistic about the used business and really are continuing to work to make sure that we're operating at an optimal level.
Research Division</strong> How much volume are you getting from kind of the direct buy of used car programs without the customer buying a new vehicle? Well it's a series of different things that we're testing.
I mean we use a -- we're buying trade-ins from Tesla.
We're doing guaranteed offers.
We've got a centralized buying team.
There's probably 1 000 units a quarter that we get from new sources and we're continuing to mine for other methods of getting vehicle.
So to us it's about building a capability and I think our capability of buying vehicles outside our stores is one that's very important to grow long term.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a couple on customer care.
As we look at when you sell a used vehicle I'm just wondering if you're getting better take rates on the -- or better retention on the service business from the used cars that you're selling now versus maybe historically? Do you see that as an opportunity to drive excess growth in parts and service over the next couple of years? It's certainly a big opportunity and I would say traditionally the industry has not been great at converting those customers.
We put a lot more emphasis in it.
The obvious target is a certified preowned because that is often a new vehicle and tender who has similar purchase and servicing characteristics.
So we're putting a lot of effort there and I think it's a continuing growth opportunity for us.
We really appreciate that business and I think our customers appreciate the levels of service we're able to provide and how competitive we are pricewise.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just one follow-up.
If we look at the last 3 years of your retail sales volume it's quite a bit higher today than it was let's say a year ago maybe 10%.
But then if we look at maybe a 6-year proof of vehicles it's kind of flat.
So what's the bigger driver for your customer care business over the next year or 2? I'm just looking for your sense of kind of what the population of vehicles is going to do for you over the next couple of years.
It's Mike Jackson.
I think when -- if -- depending how far back you go you have to recognize that we had a structural shift in our mix of stores.
We reduced our Domestic presence and increased our German Premium Luxury presence.
We think that is a better balanced portfolio going forward.
Obviously the volume is lower in German Premium Luxury as far as unit volume goes.
But the business model is very compelling and the customer care business is very compelling.
Overall we're optimistic about the customer care business that we can throw it in the mid-single digits going forward for the next few years and then we'll see where the cycle really is.
There's a question from Colin Langan with UBS.
Research Division</strong> You talked earlier about overall new vehicle margins and highlighted Luxury.
But the Luxury margin itself looked like it expanded quite a bit almost like 100 basis points year-over-year.
Anything that's driving that that the actual Luxury margins would be so much better this quarter? Well it was in particular a very good quarter for Mercedes-Benz.
They had the simultaneous launch of a new S-Class and the CLA.
Both products were extremely well accepted in the marketplace and having both ends of the price spectrum having new products at the same time drove tremendous traffic into the stores.
And we're basically sold-out on those products going into 2014 going into this year.
So it -- that certainly -- and the fact that we're -- of our Premium Luxury business almost 9% to 10% of it is Mercedes-Benz was a big factor in our performance.
But the entire Premium Luxury business was excellent.
But on the cadence of new products Mercedes hit it just right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And any color -- there is a press release here you're selling AutoUSA.
I mean is that a fairly -- would that be meaningful at all until next year? It seems like a very small business right? It's Mike Maroone.
It is a small business.
It's a business that served us well but it's not a core business to us.
And we felt that it was better off in other hands.
We appreciate the contribution they made but again it's strategically we believe we can acquire the leads we need through other sources including the company we sold it to Autobytel.
Research Division</strong> And the profit impact was very very small? Profit impact's small.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of -- I'm not sure if I heard the numbers for parts and services I believe you said it was warranty was up 13% year-over-year.
I mean is that anything unique in the quarter that's driving the strong warranty? I think that what we -- we've seen strong warranty every quarter this year.
I think it's the number of new product launches.
Also the other thing that's influencing that is a number of manufacturers have moved to providing prepaid maintenance at no charge or included in the warranty.
So that number is growing.
And that number you could argue that's customer pay or warranty.
It's officially categorized as warranty.
And I think that boosts that number somewhat.
But we're happy to have those customers and look forward to retaining them.
Research Division</strong> And it was up 13% that's the right number? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> And just one last question.
You talked earlier about the CFPB.
Have you noticed any changes on the lenders you've worked with in terms of their policies? And when would you expect that you maybe would see some of the changes? Is that something coming shortly or is that more towards the end of the year? Well I think what's very interesting is there have been no changes.
And if you look at the Ally agreement there are no operational changes in that agreement whatsoever.
So you would think that is something significant was coming.
We're certainly -- the government has a lot of leverage with Ally it would have happened then but it didn't.
And our discussions with the lenders are a bit they're so satisfied with the current business model and how it works that they feel there'll be some other solution to find common ground with CFPB.
So it's interesting nothing's changed yet.
And you have the first enforcement action.
And from an operating point of view nothing changed.
There is a question from Brett Hoselton with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Can you comment on the gross profit per unit on the new vehicle side your expectations for the trend going forward? Obviously there's been some pressure on the Import side.
It looks like it continued on a year-over-year basis.
I think last quarter you commented on it possibly stabilizing.
And then I think in your comments in January you're suggesting that there could be some additional pressure maybe on the Domestic side going forward.
But what are your expectations for the gross profit? It's Mike Maroone.
I think the Domestic side we're going to manage our inventories in a very disciplined way and we're hoping that the manufacturers too.
So we're not concerned with that.
I think we can maintain those.
I think Premium Luxury is a good opportunity for us and there's certainly a lot of pressure on the Import side really in specific models.
And that's where the challenge is and it's difficult to predict how that plays out so you almost have to look quarter-by-quarter as to what the mix sends up and that will help drive the margin.
But we're working very hard at managing our margins getting lots of data supplying our stores with lots of data and what we believe the profit -- what the prices are in the market.
And I think it helps them to manage those margins.
But it's a big challenge that's for sure.
Research Division</strong> And then switching gears just on the outlook for acquisitions 12 franchises 4 Premium Luxury awarded $1.1 billion in incremental revenue as they roll out.
Do you think that that's a pace that you can sustain going forward? Do you think that it diminishes from where we're currently at or do you think it actually accelerates? Brett this is Jon.
I think similar to share buyback and in the acquisition arena there is a good pipeline out there but it's difficult to predict.
So we know that in the markets where we're looking to add brands that over the next 5 years there will be attractive acquisition opportunities that come to market.
So we feel good about over the next few years there's going to be a solid pipeline and hopefully we'll be able to execute on those getting to the right price.
But it's difficult to predict when a seller that we're targeting will enter the marketplace and when the deal will get done.
So we'll continue to be active but I can't give you a prediction on deal flow this year or how to compare to what we've done.
Yes this is Mike Jackson.
We view it very opportunistically and in a very disciplined way.
I mean we could do a lot or we could do none.
It really depends on the quality of the deals and the price.
Same thing with share repurchase there is no fixed plan that we go into the year with.
And we're in the right position that we could do it all.
We're going to invest in stores do acquisitions do greenfields repurchase share.
But if the opportunity isn't there from a price value point of view we'll be very patient and very disciplined.
That's why it's hard -- we don't have a meeting where we set a goal and say this is what's going to happen.
We really take them a deal at a time and if it's right we do it.
If there was a lot of deals that are right we'll do a lot of deals.
If there's no deals that are right then we won't do any deals.
So it's hard to predict.
And there's a question from Brian Sponheimer with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Mike I just want to go back to your comments about industry inventories and specifically that of the Detroit 3.
Taking a little bit deeper dive particularly from a product standpoint is there any corresponding relationship between where perhaps the imports have become more aggressive from a pricing standpoint and where you're seeing a little bit more slack from the American manufacturers? No I think the Detroit 3 have done a very good job of marketing their vehicles in a very professional way and a very disciplined way.
I think they hit by and large most their sales targets.
All I'm observing is though that they produce enough vehicles not only to support the growth not only to support an appropriate increase of inventory for higher sales levels but inventory beyond that.
There is absolutely no reason to take inventories up to 100 days.
And the reason it works that way we all know because they use a calculation that includes fleet sales to artificially understate how much inventory's out there and they have revenue recognition on what they wholesale us.
So far it's fine.
But it's something we should watch this year because if it goes to 130 days or 150 days that will be a problem.
Inc.</strong> Understood.
Switching gears a little bit and talking about some of the new product introductions by the luxury manufacturers kind of in the value luxury market whether it's the CLA the A3 et cetera what kind of trade-ins are you getting on these cars as they're coming in? And is it pulling from the Acuras of the world or is it -- are you finding a different buyer? I think the -- they're very successfully attracting new buyers that are significantly younger and are coming to the German brands for the first time.
And whether that's coming out of the used car or from another brand.
So we see a lot of strength in the German Premium Luxury.
It's impressive that they're able to introduce products on the full range of the spectrum from $30 000 through $200 000-plus products that have a unique positioning in the marketplace.
Admittedly unique pricing but they're very differentiated products.
We have a lot of optimism and confidence there.
Inc.</strong> Yes.
Over time do you see this as possibly being brand dilutive 5 10 years out? No I do not.
I think if they were compromising the product that would be another story.
If they were getting to the price point by trying to do it on the cheap there's no question that would be a problem.
But whether you're looking at the very innovative and creative i3 from BMW which is getting -- there's a lot of anticipation for or to the CLA that the customers are absolutely delighted.
They don't feel they bought a cheap Mercedes I think they bought the right car for them that they could afford at that price point.
So when we see that kind of customer satisfaction around these products at a different price point and a different age they've got it well thought out they're executing it well.
Our last question is from David Whiston with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> For Mike Jackson can you just comment on why you're not rolling out the NADA proposal at all? So it's all once or you're just waiting to see how Washington reacts? We will be piling it or taking it into certain stores in the next few months to see exactly how it works how difficult it is to roll out and how disruptive it this and what kind of issues we would have to roll it out on the broader basis.
That's the way we do everything.
There's no way I'm subjecting the entire company to a rollout of something from one day to the next when we haven't figured out exactly how it would work and what the results would be.
And because I don't know you don't know for sure whether it really takes you down to the road of achieving the objectives and how disruptive it is.
So I think it's very prudent.
I applaud NADA for putting it together.
I think it's a step in the right direction.
We're going to take it into stores and see how it works.
And also we know we don't have any systemic issue with certainly our company.
We've seen the test results.
So I think we have time to do this in a prudent manner.
Inc.</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Back to share buybacks one last time.
I'm just a little bit surprised that you didn't buy -- hardly any shares throughout '13 then all of a sudden accelerates in Q4 and again early this year.
Did something change in the M&amp;A pipeline relative to the first half of the year? Because just it would've made more sense I think to buy it back when the shares were lower you know? Well I'm not going to give you a window into the inner workings of all the factors we look at.
I'll stand on the record that we've now invested $7 billion in share buyback at an average price of $17 a share.
So I think that we have that pretty figured out.
We've rebalanced our portfolio by divesting stores that we feel couldn't fit our model and bought other stores instead.
And here we are at earnings per share of $2.98.
And considering everything that the economy has been through the auto industry has been through to achieve that over these last 5 6 years really took this combination of operational excellence strategic initiatives and very shrewd smart and disciplined capital allocation.
But you'd have to come work here if you really want to know the inner workings of how we do it.
But I stand on our record.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
Just one final question on Luxury mix shifts.
Mike Maroone you mentioned I think earlier in the call that there was a mix shift improvement in that segment.
I'm just surprised on that given the CLA launch.
So did the S-class just right all the -- any mix headwinds from CLA? I don't see any headwinds at all.
I just wish we could get more of them.
The customer acceptance has been phenomenal.
I think the mix shift that helped drive it really is the S-class.
And the S-class is just an incredible car.
And everyone we got we sold.
And we have -- as Mike Jackson said we have a waiting list for them as far as you could see.
So I think that's part of it.
There was certainly some other new product introductions that we benefited from but those are the 2 that really come to mind.
Thank you everyone for joining us today.
Thank you for participating.
Today's call has concluded.
Please disconnect your phone line at this time.
Welcome to the AutoNation's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I will turn the call over to Robert Quartaro Senior Manager of Investor Relations for AutoNation.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to AutoNation's first quarter 2014 conference call and web cast.
Leading our call today will be Mike Jackson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mike Maroone our President and Chief Operating Officer; Cheryl Scully our Chief Financial Officer; and Jon Ferrando our Executive Vice President responsible for M&amp;A.
Following their remarks we will open up the call for questions.
I will also be available by phone following the call to address any additional questions that you may have.
Before we begin let me read our brief statement regarding forward-looking comments.
Certain statements and information on this call will constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve risks which may cause the actual results or performance to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Additional discussions of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are contained in our press release issued earlier today and our SEC filings including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K.
Certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules will be discussed on this call.
Reconciliations are provided in our press release which is available on our website at investors.autonation.com.
And now I'll turn the call over to AutoNation's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mike Jackson.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we reported first quarter adjusted EPS from continuing operations at $0.75 a 10% increase compared to $0.68 for the same period in the prior year.
This is our 14th consecutive quarter of double digit year-over-year growth and adjusted EPS from continuing operations.
First quarter 2014 revenue totaled $4.4 billion compared to $4.1 billion in the year ago period an increase of 7% driven by stronger performance in all of our business sectors.
In the first quarter AutoNation's retail new vehicle unit sales increased 6% although 4% on a same store basis.
Our coast-to-coast branding roll-out which began in February 2013 has now passed the one year anniversary and has been embraced by our customers and our associates.
AutoNation is very well positioned with an optimal brand and market mix and a disciplined cost structure.
We continue to drive solid results across all our business sectors.
I will now turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Cheryl Scully.
Thank you Mike and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
For the first quarter we reported adjusted net income from continuing operations of $91 million or $0.75 per share versus net income of $83 million or $0.68 per share during the first quarter of 2013 a 10% improvement on a per share basis.
Our first quarter 2014 results exclude after-tax net gains of $5 million or $0.04 per share related to business and property dispositions.
There were not adjustments to net income in the prior year period.
Adjustments to net income are included in the reconciliations provided in our press release.
In the first quarter revenue increased $267 million or 7% compared to the prior year and gross profit improved $43 million or 7%.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross profit was 70.8% for the quarter which represents a 50 basis point decrease compared to the year ago period.
Net new vehicle floor plan was a benefit of $11.3 million an increase of $5 million from the first quarter of 2013 primarily due to higher floor plan adjustments.
Floor plan debt decreased approximately $185 million during the first quarter to $2.8 billion at quarter end due to lower inventory balances.
Non-vehicle interest expense decreased to $21.6 million compared to $22.3 million in the first quarter of 2013 due to lower debt balances.
At the end of March we had $285 million of outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility and a total non-vehicle debt balance of $1.8 billion.
This was a decrease of $36 million compared to December 31 2013.
The provision for income tax in the quarter was $60.3 million or 38.7%.
During the first quarter we repurchased 2.4 million shares fir $115.7 million at an average price of $47.92 per share.
AutoNation has approximately 400 million of remaining board authorization for share repurchase.
As of April 16th there were approximately 190 million shares outstanding.
This does not include the diluted impact of stock options.
Our leverage ratio decreased from 2.3 times at the end of Q4 to 2.2 times at the end of Q1 as we continue to generate strong cash flow.
The leverage ratio was 2.0 times on a net debt basis which includes used floor-plan availability and our covenant limit is 3.75 times.
Capital expenditures were $34.5 million for the quarter.
Capital expenditures are on an accrual basis and exclude operating lease buy-outs and related asset sales.
Our quarter end cash balance was $69 million which combined with our additional borrowing capacity resulted in total liquidity of $982 million at the end of March.
Our capital allocation strategy has not changed.
We remain opportunistic with a focus on investing to produce strong returns and long term shareholder values through our solid pipeline of potential acquisitions and new store opportunities as well as share repurchase.
Now let me turn you over to our President and Chief Operating Officer Mike Maroone.
Thanks Cheryl and good morning.
AutoNation delivered record first quarter adjusted EPS from continuing operations and operating margin of 4.2% when adjusted for business and property dispositions and grew revenue and gross profit across all business sectors.
We are pleased with these results particularly given the soft start to the quarter from an overall industry perspective due to harsh winter weather.
As I continue my comments will be on a same-store basis when compared to the period a year ago unless noted otherwise.
For the first quarter same store total gross profit for variable operations increased 6% and on a per vehicle basis was up $117 or 4% to $3 352 per vehicle driven by solid contributions from used vehicles and customer financial services.
Combined new and used same store unit volume was up 3%.
Relative to new vehicles in the quarter same store new vehicle revenue of $2.4 billion increased $131 million or 6% on new vehicle sales volume of 69 700 new vehicles an increase of 2 565 vehicles or 4%.
New vehicle gross profit of $144 million grew $2 million or 1% in the quarter.
Gross profit per new vehicle retail of $2 060 was up $50 or 2% largely due to continued pressure in the import segment where the environment remains very competitive for both volume and growth particularly for Nissan and Toyota.
At March 31 our new vehicle inventory was at 61 days compared to 62 days a year ago and at year end.
Turning to used vehicles; in the quarter same store retail used vehicle revenue of $932 million increased $32 million or 4% on 51 100 used vehicles retailed up 600 units or 1% with unit volume increases in the premium luxury and domestic segments offsetting a volume decline in the import segment.
Revenue per vehicle retails $421 or 2% to $18 225.
Retail used vehicle gross profit of $91 million was up $8 million or 10% and gross profit per used vehicle retail of $1 788 increased $137 or 8%.
We had a challenge with tight used vehicle inventory in the quarter when the new market froze as a result our intention turned to maximizing margin and we are very pleased with the results.
Supply challenge emphasized the need to accelerate initiatives that expand our alternatives for sourcing used vehicles in a strategic manner that consistently drives the right product and the right price at the right time.
It is not entirely linked to the new vehicle market.
External sourcing initiatives including centralized buying team partnerships with various third parties and a We Buy Your Car guarantee to offer pilot program that we will launch this summer.
Internally we are focused on increasing appraisals winning more trades reducing third party wholesale and equity monitoring in the service lane.
At the end of the first quarter our used vehicle base supply was 31 days.
Rounding out the variable side of the business is customer financial services where in the quarter gross profit per vehicle retail was $1 407 an increase of $85 or 6% which is a record for our company.
Total gross profit of $170 million increased $14 million or 9% compared to the period a year ago.
We continue to be extremely pleased with our performance here and remain focused on the overall customer experience continuous improvement at store level execution and long term customer retention through value added products offered through customer financial services.
Next customer care or service parts and collisions; in the first quarter customer care revenue increased $24 million or 4% to $661 million.
Turning to gross; despite the severe weather earlier in the quarter we were pleased to report gross profit increases across the board for customer care and we are particularly pleased with a 6% increase in warranty growth and 11% increase in collision growth in the 15th consecutive quarterly increase in customer pay growth which was up 2%.
In total customer care gross profit was up $10 million or 4% to $282 million for the quarter.
Our customer care team remains focused on operational improvement in the areas of traffic appointments and customer satisfaction.
This includes updating and expanding our service capability for added customer convenience.
The target is to have 180 stores operating under this updated model by year end.
In the first quarter 30 more stores were installed bringing the current total to 110.
As I wrap up my remarks I will note that at March 31 our store portfolio number 269 franchises and 228 stores in 15 states representing 33 manufacture brands.
The franchise and store count each increased by one on April 1st when we proudly opened the Audi store in South Orlando for business.
This manufacture award point further strengthens our premium luxury position.
Our entire team is excited about the sales and service opportunities in the spring market.
We are investing aggressively to build our brand awareness in both traditional and digital channels and early results are quite positive.
A key foundational component of our efforts is the unified commitment to deliver a peerless customer experience at every touch point.
I'd like to thank our 22 500 associates for their efforts in serving our customers and their dedication to building a great company.
With that I will turn it back to Mike Jackson.
Thanks Mike.
Certainly the last 10 days of March we saw business was exceptionally strong.
We see the same intensity continue into the month of April which gives us optimism that in the second quarter we can regroup some of the disruption that occurred in the first quarter because of weather which gives us the confidence to confirm our forecast for the full year industry growth between 3% and 5% breaking through 16 million units.
Thank you for listening to us and we will now take questions.
(Operator Instructions).
The first question is from Gary Balter with Credit Suisse.
Thank you and Mike and Cheryl congratulations first of all on another strong quarter.
Thank you Gary.
Welcome.
Thank you.
Just one question maybe with a follow-up.
Just parts and servicing customer pay was up 2% in the rollouts.
What are the efforts to improve that and are you seeing like [indiscernible] we were on the spike in SAR so we are assuming that as we age in a couple this year and next y ear you are going to see a pick up more in the warranty and then gradually in customer pay.
Are you seeing that trend start to develop? Yes Gary its Mike Maroone.
As we mentioned this was our 15th consecutive quarter of improvements in customer pay.
The vehicles that are zero to five years old that population is growing rapidly.
We are estimating it as up 9%.
It’s a little bit offset by the six to 10 year population as we still have a bit of a hangover from the 2008-2009 downturn.
But we expect mid single digit growth over the next few years.
We are very optimistic about the business.
We made investments in collision in service capacity and the express service roll out is an important one for us if we just refresh our capabilities to serve customers that are in the maintenance mindset as we compete with the independents.
Have you given any numbers on the difference when you do put in the express service capabilities in the storage versus the ones that you haven't yet rolled it out into? I don't think we have shared that.
And what that is is that's an upgrading of those capabilities.
It's broader than oil changes its into real basic maintenance and we don't have [indiscernible] to share today.
Okay.
And then just finishing up and then I will turn over to somebody else.
Mr.
Jackson you had highlighted at the Auto Show your concerns on inventory level for the manufacturers.
Obviously your inventory is in a very good shape.
Do you feel that the industry as a whole has pulled back in and have been listening to your words of wisdom? Gary I think we are definitely in a better position both as a company and an industry than we were back in January.
Its either they listened to me or the epic winner gave him a great deal of concern.
Don't know which one made a greater impression but certainly they were more prudent in their floor planning on production and while its not absolutely ideal for the industry I certainly feel better than I did back in January.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Elizabeth Suzuki with Bank of America.
Hi good morning.
Can you talk a little bit about the dispositions you made in the quarter? Were they just underperforming dealerships and do you expect any additional dispositions for this year?  Yeah Elizabeth well that was the divestiture of our customer lead distribution business so that was not store related on the dispositions that was related to the customer lead generation business.
Okay great.
And just one quick other one.
Are you expecting to see any bump in parts and service revenue in gross margin from the GM and Toyota recall since you have a fair amount of exposure to those brands and more broadly do you think the size and frequency of recalls is structurally increasing? This is Mike Maroone.
The recall business actually has been fairly consistent in terms of its contribution.
Its only 3% of our customer care growth so its not a big factor.
Certainly there's pressure on all manufacturers and there has been a flurry of activity with GM and Toyota but I think its still a small part of the business.
I think it will continue to be part of the business as we are certainly pressured in those areas.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from James Albertine with Stifel Nicolaus.
Great.
Good morning and thanks for taking the question and may I offer my congratulations to Cheryl on her recent announcement and appointment as no longer interim but now the CFO.
Thank you Jamie.
So very quickly could we dig in a little bit on the used side notice the 8% -- I think it was 8.3% growth in gross profit per unit.
Maybe give us a little bit of background detail as what was driving that during the quarter? Jamie its Mike Maroone.
We really have worked hard at delivering and promoting a market pricing strategy and delivering that.
Worked really hard to educate our customers on the value proposition including providing data too on market pricing.
But we do feel that we have made some improvements in the operating side but the other factor clearly was inventories were extraordinarily tight in January and February and I think that that when we were unable to acquire the quantity of inventory we really want to work in the margin side and really pleased that our retail gross was up 10% on a same store basis but certainly would like to pick up the volume a little bit more.
Okay.
So something below 8% is -- but still positive you think is sustainable as we start to see the volume kind of rebalance into the second quarter? Yeah we clearly feel that we can sustain those efforts whether they are at that level or not I don't want to make that prediction.
Lets hope that [indiscernible] over the next few quarters but we worked really hard on our margin management.
And then just as a quick follow-up to that is there anything with respect to the acquisitions that you've integrated over the last year or two that would have shifted the mix of your used channel? So maybe more premium luxury that could be driving that higher or otherwise or is it still too small to have had an impact? Thanks.
Well we have been very aggressive in the premium luxury segment and that growth was about 9% on a unit basis.
So it was by far the strongest growth on the used vehicle side.
So I think it did have some impact there.
We were softer on the import segment of course.
Got it.
Thanks again.
Thank you.
The next question is from Rick Nelson with Stephens.
Inc.</strong> Good morning.
Good morning Rick.
Inc.</strong> You've [indiscernible] stock buybacks in the March quarter if you could comment there on what you're seeing in terms of acquisition pricing is it still a reflection of how things are getting aggressive at that point? Hey Rick it's Jon Ferrando.
On the acquisition side we see a solid pipeline of acquisitions that we are currently evaluating and we feel like we are well executed to position.
To execute on deals not only in discussion today but the pipeline that we will see over the next several years.
Our advantages include our access to capital our resources and expertise on deals.
We have the ability to get deals done with manufacturers.
We have the facility and the expertise to deal with a lot of sellers that come to market with a facility upgrade that they are facing.
We can navigate that well.
We certainly included in our valuation and then also sellers' view -- a lot of the sellers do care a lot about the future for their employees and the unparalleled clear opportunities we can offer is an advantage for AutoNation.
So that is putting us in a position to have deals under discussion.
At the end of the day we have got to come to a agreement on price and the price bandwidth has narrowed since the big dislocation back in 2008 to 2010.
so those discussions are a bit easier and more rational but we still have a -- we will have a strong discipline on price and what we are going to pay on deals.
Inc.</strong> Thank you for that.
Also looks like your unit sales outpaced the industry where you're into the rebranding.
Do you think that has been a driver there and do you think we could see the AutoNation brand on the premium luxury stores in the future? Rick this is Mike Jackson we are certainly thrilled with the success of the brand launch over the past year that's clearly going to break by customers and our associates.
I think its still too early to declare its taking share for us.
What we do see though and as you recall one of the major factors as to why we decided to take this step is we felt that in the digital world having one name and one brand to put our resources behind would be a significant advantage and there it has exceeded our expectation with our traffic increasing compared to a year ago digitally by 20%; and that the AutoNation sites generate more sales than all our third party relationships combined.
So that's caused us to decide to accelerate our investment in the digital brand AutoNation and the digital capabilities of our sites on a magnitude of $100 million over the next several years -- over $100 million over the next several years.
And so we are ahead of schedule and we are excited about the possibilities but to the moment where we would say its taking share for us.
I still think that somewhat over the horizon but we are absolutely convinced we are on the right track.
Inc.</strong> Thanks for that.
Also I'd like to ask about the sales strengths that [indiscernible] on March.
How much of that do you think is fueled by incentives and as the inventories were lower as the OEMs back off of incentives do you think the type of pace we saw in March is sustainable? Rick in my opinion while there was some technical enhancements at certain incentives due to the 10-week sale while the building of the inventory and the realization that you need it to get going by the industry.
I don't think that was it.
I think you could have had those same incentives in February they wouldn't have made a weighted [ph] difference.
It really was a hibernation on the part of the consumer due to an epic winter and once the consumer finally came out yes there was great selection somewhat improved incentives but that was not the deciding factor.
And also usually we see a big fall-off in intensity when you have a period like the end of March and then you start a new month.
But that didn't happen this time and business has been very strong in April right from day one.
So that to me says now there is something more going on here namely the people who simply postponed in January February and early March are now back in the marketplace.
And so that gives me the confidence again to confirm our breaking through $60 million plus streak the 5% and I think you're going to see a strong spring for the industry.
Inc.</strong> Thanks a lot and good luck.
Thank you Rick.
Thank you.
The next question is from David Lim with Wells Fargo.
Hi good morning everyone.
Can you hear me? We can.
Great.
So the question that I wanted to sort of follow-up on is I know that you mentioned Mike about the $100 million that you are going to invest over the next several years.
Apparently there was an article out saying that you're trying to not necessarily displace the third party leads but in theory if you were to displace a third party leads how much would that save you on a per vehicle basis? Are we talking about $200 to $300 per unit those that would have been generated by let's say TrueCar or another third party provider? First when we look at the investment of our marketing resources and how it generates business third party lead providers are our most expensive business.
And that was one of the reasons a year ago that we looked at it and said there were increasing prices every year and they are taking the money we are giving them and building their brand and if you just play that out over the years we become more dependent upon them and we have to continually pay higher prices and this can't be the answer.
So you combine with that that I think the third party lead sellers while they do have a certain value for consumers there is a disconnect and a disruptive hand-off between the third party providers sellers and retailers that's not very efficient and not very customer friendly.
So it was those factors with which we decide to launch the brand AutoNation and enhance our investment in digital and what we foresee in the future is that we can give a more seamless integrated experience for our customers because I don't view the world as an online world and a brick and mortar world I think the customer wants one experience with the retailer that's seamless between their interactions with digital and brick and mortar and clearly mobile where they bring the devices right into the stores confirm that.
So we are in a unique position to do that and that we have the scale and success when we launched the brand and we have the footprint of stores to pursue that.
Now to your question what happens on the cost side I am not viewing this as a cost cutting period by taking money away from third party providers.
I am simply saying I'd rather take that money I am spending with third party providers and spend it on AutoNation brand and AutoNation sites to generate the business and that will be far more efficient and far more effective than spending it with third party providers.
Now exactly what is the pace of that transition we are still doing business with the third party providers today.
We are not pulling the plug from one day to the next but certainly there will be a conversation that says hey third party providers you're going to have to become more cost effective to stay in the game than what you are today.
And if their costs continue to go up then there will be a fast migration to AutoNation sites if they become more competitive then we can work out some of the disconnect issues then we will have a longer term relationship.
Clearly we see alternatives.
Clearly we see a strategic opportunity for AutoNation going back to Rick's question in a somewhat longer term horizon will once again create a unique capability for AutoNation that's the opportunity we see.
Think about it a lot like the shared resource center where it took us five years of investment to realize the efficiencies and the transparency and the control that comes with that and capabilities it gives to us.
We have a longer view on this issue.
We kicked the ball a year ago.
We are thrilled with where we are after one year and we have made the decision to accelerate our investment in this capability and we are very optimistic to what it means for the company in the longer term.
So all in all I mean this initiative that you're taking if we are looking at the longer time horizon is its going to obviously help you drive the top line revenue for new cars and also possibly the gross profit per unit for new cars.
Would that be a fair assessment? Yeah but we are viewing digitally and the brand in a much more and much broader point of view.
This will include capabilities in used car service parts finance insurance.
So we are really looking at the whole spectrum of how we interact with our customers and we are also going to be looking to broaden the brand attributes of AutoNation and move into different business fields with branded products from AutoNation whether that's service contracts warranty contracts.
We are full of ideas.
So it was beginning a year ago.
We saw the opportunities we are thrilled with where we are.
After a year we have more ideas and more conviction today than we did a year ago and clearly though in digital what we want to deliver within a year from today is that customers when they go to an AutoNation site in the digital world they can select specific vehicles get a smart choice fair price from AutoNation buy that vehicle online by putting down a deposit in a transaction that vehicle will then pulled from our inventory.
Customer is issued a certificate that they have purchased that specific vehicle for that specific price and when they arrive at the AutoNation dealership we welcome Mr.
or Mrs.
Smith and say here is your car its right here.
We have a copy of your certificate and then we expand those capabilities to all the other parts of the business.
So we are on our way down that journey and its not that we are looking to save the cost savings by cutting off third parties to the extent that we shift the business to the AutoNation sites that money would be reinvested rather than third parties selling their brands we will be taking that money and building our brand.
That's the way I think about it.
Got you.
One last question SG&amp;A to gross profit definitely impressive this quarter.
I think it was like the best Q1 since 2006.
What more can you do to even further lower that? Well we continue to be very focused on all elements of costs.
There are a number of things from [indiscernible] initiatives that show service centers certainly gross profit influences that as well and we continue longer term.
There's variability seasonality in that.
We continue to target below 70% and there is several initiatives we have in place that we can continue to focus on.
And that's at the same time while we are making these investments in digital as well.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
The next question is from Brian Sponheimer with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for having me on.
Can you hear me? Yeah.
We can hear you fine Brian.
Welcome.
Okay.
Just want to dig into the segment performance particularly what you're seeing in the import segment and how long you expect the negative pricing particularly for Nissan and Toyota to be a headwind? This is Mike Jackson I will give you an overview and then Mike Maroone will get into the specifics.
If we look at the marketplace truck sales were very strong.
That is a period of just traditional strength at the domestics trucks have moved over 50% of the marketplace.
So that has gone well.
Then we look at the growth in the premium luxury that's bifurcated economic recover.
We have premium luxury its very strong; overall faster than the volume market and the manufacturers investment and the cadence and the type of products that they have coming is absolutely amazing.
Then if you look at our Asian business the mid-car segment is overall slow its not growing the same as the rest of the marketplace and customers in that segment have more choice than ever and I would say yes we now have a market share battle on [indiscernible] that's underway that is very intense.
And there is a lot of competitive pressure at retail.
Mike why don't you talk about it? Well the pressures we called out is all through the sector.
It really is highlighted by real pressure in Nissan and Toyota and both are a little different situations.
Toyota is a lot of dealers doing some very deep discounting selling vehicles at a loss and certainly that's not our business model but we are in the business to compete and want to win that customer.
With Nissan they have built a business model around volume based incentives and continue to raise the targets.
And so you have got retailers really chasing those targets hoping and praying to hit the levels and they start deep discounting from unit one.
So it’s a competitive environment it has been that way for a while maybe getting a little bit worse.
Thank god its offset with us by a very strong position in premium luxury and when we look at the business we really look at our overall gross margin and our variable gross overall is up $117 over prior year.
So yes we have got pressure in the import segment.
We have got big opportunity in the other segments and the domestic segment is much more rational than import at this point.
That's quite a change versus where we were about eight or nine years ago.
Would it be wrong to say that your gross profit improved per unit and on the domestic side as well as in the premium luxury? No that segment was off very slightly.
Nothing like the import side.
It was relatively flat but it was off a few bucks.
Mike Jackson you've got obviously a lot of influence with your vendors.
At what point do you speak to the fact that this no good for the brand this is no good for the companies and this is exactly what the domestics did 10 to 20 years ago? I have had that conversation and I have been having it -- my concern has been there for some time and at the moment I don't see the exit door.
So we are continuing to have the conversation but I cannot say that I see the turning point at this time.
I appreciate the color.
Have a nice quarter thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from David Whiston with Morningstar.
Good morning.
An electric vehicle question.
I am just curious what are AutoNation's Mercedes BMW and Porsche buyers saying to your sales reps about Tesla and how are those customers responding to the new plug-in offering from BMW and Porsche relative to Tesla and do you think Tesla is costing you some business at the margin? We have a number of customers who have bought Tesla as an additional vehicle.
Second third fourth fifth something like that.
Now they are putting it in their portfolio and are using it on a local basis.
Generally speaking they have very favorable comments about the car.
They like the design.
They like the way it drives.
We have taken some intrigue with the comments -- the user interface with the big screen we have the touch screen.
Everything is not what they want to do and the fact that its really for local use they can't really use it over the road.
Its somewhat limiting but overall they have a favorable impression of the car.
By the way so do I.
It's a good vehicle.
Right.
And do you expect high sales at your stores though from the offerings coming in from BMW and Porsche in those segments? I think the BMW I3 and I8 and the Mercedes E Class are going to give choices to the customers interested in electric that have not been there before.
I think electric vehicles in the high end luxury are the natural place for that segment to develop from everything I have seen and heard and spoken about.
The battery costs are still too high to really be able to make it and economically rational decision for the volume market.
That feels to me like its still a few years out and there are those who say hmmm that they will never arrive and that fuel cells costs will come down faster than battery costs and that ultimately for the volume market its going to be fuel cells not pure electrics.
Plug-in electric hybrids are somewhere in between and pure electric and I am not sure how fast that market is going to develop.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
Appreciate it.
Just a balance sheet question for Cheryl.
You've got $800 million of debt coming due late 2016.
I just want to know do you plan to pay all of this off refi all of it part of it just trying to gauge how this debt will impact company's ability to keep doing acquisition CapEx buybacks? Yeah we are in a terrific liquidity position we have close to $1 billion of liquidity.
We certainly continuously refi at appropriate points.
We pick our points in the market.
We have an incredible banking group.
Some of that involves some OEM captives as well.
So we have broad receptivity [indiscernible].
We are the only investment grade credit in this space and we will certainly plan to refinance that into a terrific facility well in advance of the renewal.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Its not a constrain on any level of acquisition for us.
In fact we could get additional capital if desired or needed than complete acquisitions or share repurchases at the appropriate time.
Okay thanks.
Appreciate it.
Thank you everyone for joining us today.
Thank you.
We have one more sorry.
Your final question today is from Patrick Archambault with Goldman Sachs.
Sorry Patrick.
Made it in under wire.
Thank you.
A couple have been answered but two left.
One is just on the -- kind of following up on the discussion about used margins.
Not everybody is a fan of the used to new ratio but that ratio had been rising through I think almost all of last year on a year-on-year basis in the first quarter.
It declined a little bit year-on-year.
Just wanted to know is that kind of part and parcel with kind of some of the constraints that you spoke to and is there a little bit of a trade-off I guess between margin and volumes that we have to be thinking about going forward? Patrick Mike Maroone.
I think there is opportunity involved and I really think that we are going to continue to work hard to source vehicles so that we are not totally dependent on that new vehicle cycle.
I think there is almost unlimited opportunity on the used side and I don't think we have to give up a ton of margin to get there.
Its very different than the new vehicle business.
Every single used vehicle is different and if we acquire it properly recondition it to our AutoNation standards and deliver the right experience I think that we have big time opportunity.
So we don't feel constrained and don't want to be constrained from new vehicle trade availability and want to supplement that with the things that we talked about earlier.
And its well underway we just want to get better faster.
And then you know just kind of building on that like the outlook for inventory acquisition costs just with leasing and everything else.
How do you guys think about that? There is a lot of vehicles coming off lease and we liken though a lifetimes three year old four year old which is a real sweet spot and also a lot of the trades that are coming in are extraordinarily high miles as people still recover from the disruption of the 2008-2009-2010 timeframe.
So it’s a nice complement to what we have.
But certified pre-owned business is really growing quickly.
For us certified pre-owned was up 12% in the quarter is up 32% of our sales.
That nearly new vehicles got opportunity.
The off-leased vehicles had opportunity and they are coming in pretty good quantity and we still have the high miles cheaper inventory that is still in very high demand and turns very quickly.
Got you.
Okay that's helpful.
Then one last one for me.
Forgive me if I kind of missed the discussion but on the parts and service margin which certainly came in ahead of what we were thinking.
Can you tell us a little bit more about that how -- I feel like there had been some pressure at some point as maybe you were getting into other segments but in aggregate that's done very well.
So maybe just directionally some color there? I am really pleased with our customer care teams.
Alan McLaren leads that team and I think they have done a real good job of working on pricing responding to local market pricing.
We had some people in headquarters that worked centrally to try and make sure that we are competitive and we are taking advantage of the opportunities in the market.
But our real goal is to serve that customer across all of their maintenance deeds from basic oil changes to routine maintenance to mechanical breakdowns and collision.
I really like our effort there.
Rolling out our updated express service initiative is very important to us and we have 180 stores done later on doing about 30 stores a quarter.
So we are making really good progress.
We have got 110 done.
So that's a big piece of it and we just want to capture all the customer business and really believe in our brand and our mantra of delivering a peerless customer experience.
So not really a mix shift more just good pricing and blocking and tackling? I think its just good pricing blocking and tackling and of course we want to grow the customer pay business and the collision business and I think we are doing a good job in that area.
Okay.
Terrific.
Thanks a lot guys.
Now this is it thank you everyone for joining us today.
Thanks everyone.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you all for joining.
Welcome to AutoNation’s Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Today’s conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I will turn the call over to Robert Quartaro Senior Manager of Investor Relations for AutoNation.
Good morning and welcome to AutoNation’s second quarter 2014 conference call and webcast.
Leading our call today will be Mike Jackson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mike Maroone our President and Chief Operating Officer; Cheryl Scully our Chief Financial Officer; and Jon Ferrando our Executive Vice President responsible for M&amp;A.
Following their remarks we will open up the call for questions.
I will also be available by phone following the call to address any additional questions that you may have.
Before we begin let me read our brief statement regarding forward-looking comments.
Certain statements and information on this call will constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve risks which may cause the actual results or performance to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Additional discussions of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are contained in our press release issued earlier today and our SEC filings including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K.
And now I’ll turn the call over to AutoNation’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mike Jackson.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
Today we reported record second quarter EPS from continuing operations of $0.83 a 14% increase as compared to EPS of $0.73 for the same period in the prior year.
This marks our 15th consecutive quarter of double-digit growth in earnings per share.
Second quarter 2014 revenue totaled 4.8 billion compared to 4.4 billion in the year-ago period an increase of 8%.
In the second quarter AutoNation’s retail new vehicle unit sales increased 8% or 6% on a same store basis.
In Q2 the industry SAR was 16.6 million.
We believe that the improvement in new vehicle sales will continue and we are reconfirming our full year estimates of 3% to 5% of plus 16 million sales for the industry in 2014.
Now I’d like to turn it over to our Chief Financial Officer Cheryl Scully.
Thank you Mike and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
For the second quarter we’ve reported net income from continuing operations of 101 million or $0.83 per share versus net income of 90 million or $0.73 per share during the second quarter of 2013 a 14% improvement on a per share basis.
There were no adjustments to net income in either periods.
In the second quarter revenue increased 362 million or 8% compared to the prior year and gross profit improved 49 million or 7%.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross profit was 70.4% for the quarter which represents a 60 basis point decrease compared to the year-ago period.
Net new vehicle floor plan was a benefit of 14.1 million an increase of 3 million from the second quarter of 2013 primarily due to higher floor plan assistance.
Floor plan debt increased approximately 25 million during the second quarter to 2.9 billion at quarter end due to higher average inventory balances.
Non-vehicle interest expense decreased to 21.3 million compared to 22 million in the second quarter of 2013 primarily due to lower debt balances.
At the end of June we had 365 million of outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility and a total non-vehicle debt balance of 1.9 billion.
This was an increase of 79 million compared to March 31 2014.
The provision for income tax in the quarter was 63.5 million or 38.7%.
During the second quarter we repurchased 1.1 million shares for $64.1 million at an average price of $56.05 per share.
AutoNation has approximately 336 million of remaining Board authorization for share repurchase.
As of July 16 there were approximately 119 shares outstanding.
This does not include the dilutive impact of stock options.
Our leverage ratio remained at 2.2 times at the end of Q2 as compared to Q1.
The leverage ratio is 2.1 times on a net debt basis including used floor plan availability and our covenant limit is 3.75 times.
Capital expenditures were 52.9 million for the quarter.
Capital expenditures are on an accrual basis and exclude operating lease buyouts and related asset sales.
Our quarter end cash balance was 69 million which combined with our additional borrowing capacity resulted in total liquidity of 909 million at the end of June.
As further evidence of our financial strength Standard &amp; Poor’s has upgraded our senior unsecured rating to investment grade during the quarter.
We now have investment grade ratings from both Moody’s and S&amp;P on our bonds in addition to our corporate family ratings.
Our stellar balance sheet strong cash flow generation and opportunistic approach to capital allocation continue to support our goal of maximizing shareholder value.
Now let me turn you over to our President and Chief Operating Officer Mike Maroone.
Thanks Cheryl and good morning.
In the second quarter AutoNation delivered a 4.1% operating margin along with solid growth in both sales and customer care.
When coupled with a 15th consecutive quarter of double-digit EPS growth and a record second quarter EPS we’re pleased with the quarter.
As I continue my comments will be on a same-store basis and compared to the period a year ago unless noted otherwise starting with sales.
In the second quarter total gross profit for variable operations was $3 279 per vehicle an increase of $67 or 2% with expanded gross profit per vehicle for both used vehicles and customer financial services.
Relative to new vehicles in the quarter same store new vehicle revenue increased $200 million or 8% to $2.7 billion on the sale of 79 000 new vehicles which increased by 4 700 vehicles or 6%.
New vehicle gross profit of 159 million grew 10 million or 7% in the quarter and at $2 008 we’re able to maintain new vehicle gross profit per vehicle retail in what continues to be a very competitive new vehicle market.
At June 30 our new vehicle inventory was 59 days compared to 67 days a year ago.
Turning to used vehicles in the quarter retail used vehicle revenue was 976 million an increase of 23 million or 2% on 52 000 used vehicles retailed which was relatively flat compared to a year ago.
Revenue per used vehicle retail increased $527 or 3% to $18 836.
Retail used vehicle gross profit of 87 million was up 4 million or 5% and gross profit for used vehicle retail of $1 687 was a solid increase of $91 per vehicle of 6%.
We’re pleased with the growth in gross profit and clearly recognize that we missed some opportunity on the volume side.
We ramped up our used vehicle inventory by 20% in the quarter and are positioned to grow our volume in Q3.
At the end of the second quarter our used vehicle day supply was 36 days compared to 30 days a year ago.
Rounding out the variable side of the business is customer financial services where in the quarter gross profit per vehicle retail was $1 398 an increase of $23 or 2%.
Total gross profit for customer financial services of 183 million was up 9 million or 5% compared to the period a year ago.
Our CFS team remains focused on the overall customer experience continuous improvement in store level execution and long-term customer retention through value-added product offerings.
Next customer care or service parts and collision where the second quarter marked a record for customer care revenue in gross profit.
In the quarter customer care revenue of $696 million increased 41 million or 6% and total customer care gross profit also grew 6% or 17 million to $297 million.
Expanding on gross warranty gross increased 15% driven by a heightened recall activity which accounted for nearly two-thirds of our increase in warranty gross profit on a dollar basis.
However recall comprises just 4% of our total customer care gross profit.
We also recognized an 11% increase in collision growth in the 16th consecutive quarterly increase in customer pay growth which was up 1%.
I’ll note that we have been increasing our technician headcount and are accelerating our efforts in the second half of the year thereby enabling growth in customer while also serving our recall customers.
Our customer care team continues to work diligently on operational improvement in the areas of traffic appointments and customer satisfaction.
As I wrap up my remarks last week we finalized the acquisition of Roundtree Chrysler Jeep Dodge Ram in Mobile Alabama.
This is our third store in the mobile market in alliance with our strategy of building density within our existing markets.
I’d like to thank our 23 000 associates for their contributions in driving our 15th consecutive quarter of double-digit EPS growth and for their commitment to delivering a fearless customer experience each and every day.
With that I’ll turn it back to Mike Jackson.
Thank you Mike.
We will now take your questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
The first question is from John Murphy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Good morning guys.
Hi John.
Hi John.
A first question on used which is is where there was some variance versus our expectation of the big variance versus our expectation.
It seems like the same store sales were a little bit on the light side considering the strength in new and just seem like there would be more opportunity for trade-ins and to churn your used vehicle inventory.
Yet you alluded to the inventory for used being 36-day supply so it didn’t seem like there was a shortage of inventory necessarily.
Just really trying to understand what you’re seeing in the used vehicle business and if there is a bigger opportunity to maybe reaccelerate those same store sales growth there? John it’s Mike Maroone.
We were pleased with our gross profits being up $91 a car but we really did miss some opportunity.
We ramped the inventory as the quarter went on and finished the quarter at 36 days.
So we’ve taken the inventory up about 20%.
We’re up to about 27 000 I believe in inventory right now and really need to push the volume up in this quarter.
So we’ve got the gross we did not get the volume and there’s always some shortages but as the quarter went on the CPO business was strong but clearly we didn’t retail the trades that we needed to retail and we’re going to really focus on it this quarter as we have ramped that inventory.
Okay.
So as we think about that that was really sort of starting the quarter with tight inventory and that was really the reason and was just sort of a lack of focus with that tight inventory and you think that just the re-inventorying should really create some opportunities there? It just seems a little bit tough in the quarter.
Yes I mean the supply was tight for the right merchandize.
Again there’s plenty of CPO merchandize out there.
It’s medium priced reasonable mileage cars that are just in tight supply.
We believe with more cars coming off lease in the next couple of quarters the supply should be in better shape but we have ramped their inventory because we can’t wait for that to happen.
Okay.
And then on parts and service there was a very good same store sales comp.
I’m just curious I mean it sounds like the recall is only having a very small impact on the total business.
I was just wondering if you expect that to be greater in the coming quarters or is this as good as it gets on the recall activity and really the strength is coming from just an increase in the UIOs in the zero to five to zero to six-year-old population? Well first of all there is growth in the zero to five it’s still probably two-thirds of the business but there’s some headwinds in the six to ten.
I think the recall activity is going to continue to be very brisk and we believe there is opportunity.
We need to expand our capacity.
We came into the year planning on adding about 400 technicians were on that plan but frankly we need more so certainly the amount of customer activity has tied up some capacity and we’re actively out recruiting to expand that capacity and believe there’s good opportunity.
What’s the base of techs the 400 off of a base of how many techs roughly? On a same store basis it’s 4 400.
On a total store basis it’s about 4 700.
So again this was a plan we put in place before all this recall activity and we now need to accelerate it.
Okay.
And then on the digital expense in the quarter Mike you have alluded to that on your interview on CNBC as something – there was a little bit of a headwind on costs.
Can you give us an idea of what that was in the quarter and what we should expect going forward? Yes John I talked about it on the last quarter.
We launched the brand just a little bit over a year ago.
It’s been embraced by our customers and our associates.
We’re really ahead of where we thought we would be at this point both on how well accepted the brand is and the amount of traffic it’s generating for our digital sites.
So we’ve decided to accelerate the new phase which is increasing our marketing around the brand AutoNation to drive even more customers to our digital sites and of course a big investment in the capabilities of this site itself which the next big step would be that this site goes transactional at the end of this year meaning that customers can select specific vehicles get a committed price give us a deposit and that becomes their vehicle without ever having entered the store.
And if somebody walks in 10 minutes later and wants to buy that vehicle now it’s committed to that digital transaction.
And then through the course of next year we’ll expand the digital capabilities to include purchasing customer vehicles and giving them a committed price on trade giving them committed quotes on financing and of course a dramatic improvement in the entire customer care experience everything from how you make your appointment to how you pay your bill and how you get an update on the vehicle life in for service.
So it is a transformational effort on the part of the company.
This is our strategic vision if you will that we believe today’s customer and future customers want one experience not an online experience and an in-store experience but one seamless experience where they can interact and transact both digitally and in the store.
Now we’ve called out that we’re investing an additional 100 million in this effort compared to what we kicked off a year ago.
How the spending falls will depend basically on how fast we’re able to go and what kind of barriers we come up against but sometimes we’ll move fast but sometimes we’ll go slower.
So we ask for your understanding that we are not giving a specific breakout as to how it falls on each quarter other than to say it was significant during this quarter and will be significant in further quarters with 100 million being spent over this two-year period of ‘14 and ‘15 to solidity the brands drive the traffic to the sites and turn it into a transactional site.
Mike just one question on that a follow-up that will not just have a material impact on improving the customer experience but it sounds like it would have a material impact on your cost structure.
Is that your characterization and could we see a dramatic step down in your cost structure going forward as a result of this if it’s very successful? So John I would say all of that is in the vision of both whether it’s share opportunities or cost opportunities.
But I would not bake that into your planning today.
I think we have to wait and see how skillful we execute and what the marketplace’s reaction is but this was the reason behind why we rebranded the company coast-to-coast.
We could not envision doing this with multiple names.
We think it’s far more powerful with one name but I think you’re thinking about it the right way but nothing I can bake in the plan today.
It’s sort of like the shared service center which took us seven years to fully implement that gave us both a cost advantage and a performance advantage and also in many ways was the foundational element for this digital undertaking that we need all the stores on the same technology platform for everything from data base management to how we run the company day-to-day.
So that was a key building block that went in place then rebranding the stores and now on that digital platform that we have in place the next big step is to go transactional.
So it’s certainly not the end of the story over the next two years.
There will be more chapters but we’re in a very ambitious and exciting phase I call it an investment phase that we feel in our ambition to build a great company and a great brand in the long term we need to make and is the right vision for the company and to win in the marketplace.
Sounds exciting.
Just one last one on capital allocation.
The stock it’s currently is below where you guys were buying it back in the quarter.
I mean obviously it’s just below the $56.50 that you guys were buying back in the quarter.
I mean obviously this looks like a pretty good deal.
I mean obviously you would be a buyer at these levels I would assume as far as your capital allocation giving it was below the average price you bought back in the last quarter? I think that’s a safe assumption John.
I’ve never missed the buying opportunity.
Looks like a good one.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
The next question is from Rick Nelson with Stephens.
Inc.</strong> Thanks.
I’d like to follow-up on the SG&amp;A and the digital marketing spend.
SG&amp;A came in about 13 million higher than what we were modeling for the quarter.
I think that was about $0.07 in EPS.
I know you don’t want to breakout specifics for the quarter but what causes you to go faster or slower with the $100 million spend? I would say on the marketing spend and the branding spend when we see traffic to our sites increasing then that means that the investment we’re making in the brands is getting the right reaction in the marketplace.
If traffic was flat to our sites then we would step back and say we got to rethink this.
Something is wrong in the message.
So step one is what is the reaction in the marketplace on traffic? And Mike you might have some number there we can give you to our sites.
Second step is what is the customer experience on the site and what is our closing rate on the site? And therefore the competitive experience they’re having and how effectively this site is working.
We’ve clearly identified from our research Rick that the site needs to go transactional.
Informational sites are useful.
They’ve taken us to a certain point but the customers are not interested in doing all that work.
Disconnecting and then coming to the stores and starting all over again.
So the sites need to be able to reach into the store and transact on real inventory real incoming inventory with real pricing with market data that validates that pricing and then customer when they see the car they wanted the price they want are able to send us a deposit and make it their car for the fine holding period.
And again we’ll expand the transactional capability after that.
So to the extent that it’s working we go faster.
To the extent that we run into obstacles we’re in assumption we’ve made has proven to be wrong then we have to slow down and rethink it.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thank you for that.
Also I’d like to ask about your industry assumptions for the year.
You were up 6% same store new vehicle sales so second quarter you’re up 5% and year-to-date we saw a lot of strength and May and June combined you’re full year forecast up 3% to 5%.
To view that as a conservative forecast at this point or…? I’m glad you’re asking the question Rick.
So my forecast of plus 3% to 5% is for industry sales not AutoNation sales.
That’s my opinion of industry sales.
So that’s two different things.
Now here is my thinking on industry sales year-to-date.
They were basically flat in the first quarter because of a disruption with weather and they were very strong in the second quarter taking the year-to-date improvement to 4.5 which is on the high end of our range.
Within that I look at the fact that car sales are flat and truck sales are up 8%.
That is a very strong signal from the consumer because it’s saying the following.
We all know transaction prices on trucks are higher and we also know that we’ve dealt with volatile and higher gas prices during the quarter yet the consumer has continued to buy trucks.
So that’s a bullish consumer and the industry has a comprehensive answer for the consumer around the fuel economy.
Well it’s not that this time the consumer doesn’t care about fuel economy.
They actually care very deeply about fuel economy but with the internal combustion engine and everything that comes with it today they’re able to have a larger vehicle that goes faster and yet improve the fuel economy.
So all that says we’re at the higher end of our range certainly plus 5 if not more.
So we could end up at $16 400 000 $16 500 000 units this year for the full year.
We could end up there.
So it’s an optimistic outlook for new vehicle sales for the industry.
Within that we don’t give our specific forward guidance on our sales but every month we tell you what we sold according to what we reported to manufacturers.
Inc.</strong> Now that’s very helpful data.
Good luck as we move forward Mike.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Gary Balter with Credit Suisse.
Hi Gary.
Hi.
How are you? Excellent.
Two questions.
First just doing quick math when you mentioned you’re adding about 10% technicians I’m assuming we’re going to start to see P&amp;S start growing at 10%.
Is that fair? Yes I think we’re staying with a mid-single-digit growth Gary.
You still got some headwinds in the 6 to 10… Right.
On the customer pay side.
That target was over a period of a year and we think there is opportunity in customer care but I would call a growth rate.
No we’re not saying next quarter but we’re thinking over the next few years that you’d start to see even better growth.
We think there’s great opportunity in the customer care business and that’s why we’re investing for it.
Yes.
And then on the digital side we hear the investment and is there a way to talk about like some of the opportunities that this creates from a numerical point of view.
For example savings by not going on other people’s websites because they’re going to be more identified with the AutoNation site or just the ability to drive sales and like close sales from the Web.
How should we be thinking about what the positive impacts of this investment we’re seeing now are going to be in the future? The way we think about it Gary what we’re looking at is we see the third parties with whom we do business.
Over the last few years we’re taking an ever increasing percentage of our marketing pie and to put that in some context they were 13% of our business – 13% of our vehicle sales were generated by third party sites but the marketing spend with them was significantly higher than that.
So we were like a fork in the road where we have to decide to take that money invest it in our own brands or invest it in their brands.
So that was certainly a point and we think that we can generate that traffic at a significantly lower cost than we are with the third parties with our own sites or just generate a heck of a lot more traffic.
But we know there’s a major cost differential between third party traffic and AutoNation site generated traffic significant cost delta.
Additionally whether there will be cost savings in the store as we make a more efficient faster experience with the customer where so much of the work is done digitally and what that means within the store and our ability to price much more centrally rather than store by store there are a whole list of thoughts and ideas but they’re really somewhat over the horizon in that our concentration at the moment is on this period of building the brand driving the traffic and moving towards a transactional experience.
Those are the building blocks the next building blocks that have to go in place.
Beyond that I think there is a lot of opportunity and we could realize that opportunity in different ways either from a share opportunity or a cost opportunity.
But it’s difficult to put numbers on it today.
And I think as we get deeper into the journey obviously a big milestone we’ll be going transactional later this year 2015 we will know far more exactly how this is working.
Thank you.
I think it’s great that you’re leading this charge and I look forward to watching it over the next few quarters.
Yes we’re very excited about it.
Thank you.
The next question is from Patrick Archambault with Goldman Sachs.
Yes thank you very much for taking my question.
Just wanted to follow-up on the used side.
So it sounds like there was a lack of inventory that was the main constraint in the quarter to getting the volume you wanted.
You’ve since kind of trued up those inventories by 20% to drive volume.
Should we be thinking about – or how should we be thinking about the implication on margins? You had a good margin performance this quarter but if you’re going out and sourcing a lot of stuff in the auction market is that something that could potentially be a little bit of a headwind in the shorter term until some of the lease returns come back? Patrick this is Michael Maroone.
First is by pushing the inventory up we’ve already seen a benefit.
So far in July we’re up about 7% on a year-over-year basis.
We have not seen pressure on the margin at this point.
It’s still early in the quarter but we’re really working hard to win more trades doing a lot of training in the field a lot of metrics a lot of benchmarking to make sure that we’re winning all the trades we can.
We agree if we got to go out into an auction environment and acquire larger numbers of vehicles there’s going to be some pressure but the off lease – the number of vehicles off lease really is starting to accelerate.
We think there will be enough supply.
We’ll just probably be bolder on the supply side and don’t want to give up a lot of margin.
We may have to give up some from time-to-time.
Okay that’s a helpful perspective and I appreciate that.
And I guess another question was just on the M&amp;A environment.
You have kind of gone to M&amp;A maybe a little bit more recently than some of your public competitors.
Can you just give us maybe an update as to how good the environment is? What kind of targets you are seeing in terms of the overlap in terms of valuation? And then I’d be specifically interested actually in that perspective if there’s more opportunities kind of on the domestic side than on the import side just that perspective on dealer points would be helpful? Thanks.
Pat it’s Jon Ferrando.
In terms of acquisition yes over the last 24 months through acquisition and ad points we have successfully added 1.2 billion in annual revenue.
We’ve been very focused on adding brand representations in our existing markets.
And if you look back at all those deals including the most recent one that fits very well with our strategy and we’ve been successful.
In terms of going forward we don’t give growth forecast but I can say there is certainly a solid pipeline of potential deals out there and I would say that are run over the next few years.
So we will have plenty of opportunities with sellers to continue to execute our strategy of acquisitions meeting our brand market and return criteria.
We will do deals again depending upon the market.
We’ll do domestic acquisitions.
That was our last acquisition but you also saw a very healthy mix of luxury and import over the last couple of years.
So I think you’ll also see that going forward.
Okay terrific.
Those were my questions guys.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Ravi Shanker with Morgan Stanley.
Thanks good morning everyone.
Morning.
Just a couple of follow-ups.
On the F&amp;I side your F&amp;I per unit declined sequentially and growth slowed year-on-year to the lowest level in about three or four years.
Was that just a one-off in this quarter or are you seeing some signs of pressure on the F&amp;I side maybe from higher rates or just more competition? I don’t think that we feel like we have flattened out.
I think the quarter might have been a one-off but we’re very confident of our ability to grow that and again we really worked hard to shrink the bandwidth of performance and are pretty optimistic going forward.
We have put a huge concentration on selling service contracts have really moved that number up in terms of our penetration and that the focus is value-added products and I’m very confident of our ability to grow that going forward.
We have had a steady growth path for almost 10 years and I don’t think this quarter would be anything to indicate that there won’t be future growth.
Got it.
And in your comments earlier in the call you said that the industry was very competitive.
Any further color on just pricing trends in the industry? And also as you roll out the digital initiative what do you think that does to your overall pricing? I know there are some other dealers who are trying to take steps to go to fixed pricing and such.
Do you think the public dealers as a whole can come together and maybe make some moves to kind of reduce that competitive pressure a little bit? This is Mike Jackson.
I don’t see the public retailers coming together to agree on price.
That’s not going to happen.
But if you look at our performance we are – our variable gross profit per vehicle retail is increasing steadily so I think the situation is entirely manageable.
Mike would also like to add to that.
Yes.
Again we’re up $67 a car when you take the total variable gross per car.
We were pleased to be able to hold margin on a dollar basis in a super competitive industry and there’s a lot of volume-based incentives that put pressure on volume and gross and I thought our team did a very good job.
We continue to develop our capabilities internally to provide our stores with real-time market information and continue to put more science into how we price.
But I don’t see us going to fixed price but certainly the bandwidth of margin on transactions is tightened a good bit as we’ve got a very well informed consumer.
But we’re really pleased with our ability to manage the gross and have done it over several quarters.
So we’re pleased with our margins.
Got it.
Just finally on the used business you said that CPO supply is good but I think late model used non-CPO was tight.
Where do you think the vintage sweet spot is in the industry right now? Is it that three to six-year-old non-CPO vehicle or maybe even something older than that? Yes so the inventory itself you’ve got some cheap very high mileage vehicles; those turn very quickly and you’ve got the nearly new product.
I think you’ve identified the sweet spot.
It’s anywhere between two and four years depending on miles and as you look at your average lease term right now is about 35-month so I think the vehicles that have gone into service are going to be coming out at a very good point.
But really the way to run the used car business is to win more trade.
That’s our most effective most efficient way of doing it and we’re going to continue to hone our abilities.
We’ll supplement it with outside purchases but the off lease and the trades are really where we need to shine and I think again our short-term results based on pushing our inventory gives us great optimism about the used car business.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
The next question is from Brett Hoselton with KeyBanc.
Good morning.
Morning.
Good morning Brett.
I was hoping to ask you to begin with on the M&amp;A front what do you think the possibility of doing a more material or a larger acquisition is i.e.
something with maybe 1 billion or more in revenue? Do you think that’s a low probability for AutoNation or do you think it’s a possibility? Hi Brett.
It’s Jon Ferrando.
I think our focus will continue to be on deals that meet our brand market and return criteria.
I would say we certainly have the capital and resources to successfully acquire a larger group if at some point in the future that came together from a brand market and financial return standpoint but our primary focus is on adding brand representation in the markets that we’re in.
Thank you.
And then the $100 million that you’re looking to spend on your digital initiative can you give us a rough estimate of how much of that you spent in the second quarter? Yes Brett we’re not providing a specific number into the quarter.
I would say generally our SG&amp;A as a percentage of growth came in at 70.4% for the quarter.
We typically like to target that below 70% to somewhere between where we came up and where we’ve traditionally been is directionally a bit portion that would be digital.
And then over the next few years parts and service growth we’ve seen some increasing – an increase in the growth rate in warranty.
It looks like your customer pay has slowed down a little bit possibly offsetting that.
What do you think would be a reasonable parts and service same store parts and service revenue growth rate over the next few years? Is it low single digits mid single digits? Do you think you can get into the high single digits? Do you think you can get into the low double digits? Our target continues to be – this is Mike Maroone – to be in the mid single digits.
We believe we’ve got opportunity on the customer pay side.
The recall activity really did take up a fair amount of our capacity and I think you’ll see as that levels out you’ll see more growth on the CP side.
But all-in we think mid single digits is an appropriate way to look at the business on a forward-looking basis.
Thank you.
And then just one final question for Mr.
Jackson.
CFPB can you just give us an update as to what you’re seeing there in F&amp;I? We’ve implemented in nine stores what we call Pacifico technique.
It’s been successfully implemented without much disruption and no impact on results.
We will now take it to additional stores on a gradual basis.
The discussion continues in Washington.
My view is ultimately there will be some sort of common ground found around the issue that is acceptable to banks dealers and CFPB.
And that will unfold over the course of the year but my expectation is there will be some sort of agreement and some sort of common ground.
Excellent.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
The next question is from Colin Langan with UBS.
Great thanks for taking my question.
Can you just remind us the recall is 4% of gross profit what percent of – 4% of your parts and service is gross profit what percent of your sales was the recall benefit in the quarter? I’m not sure that we got that metric.
It’s 4% of gross which is up from prior quarters.
The actual sales number I do not have at my fingertips.
And how should we think about the recall? I mean there was obviously some at the very end of the quarter announced.
So will this continue through the rest of the year or should we see a dramatic decline going forward? I mean how does it normally play out for these type of recall volumes? I would say these are not normal times and the recall cadence continues to be quick brisk.
Obviously the OEMs have taken a different view and certainly a more conservative view and are recalling a lot more vehicles.
It’s difficult to get a forward look.
By the way on your first question it’s about 3% of the revenue.
One of my teammates just provided that information.
Okay thank you.
But we should expect – because people don’t usually bring that back and many of them don’t come back immediately so we should still see a lot of them come back over the next couple months? I think it’s going to provide a lot of traffic and that’s why we’re moving even more aggressively to add technician count which gives us more capacity even brick and mortar capacity.
If you think about it this way if you just take General Motors which is approaching 30 million announced recalls of which 500 000 are completed.
Okay that’s helpful.
We’ll be talking about this next year.
Okay.
You mentioned a couple times when you’re focused on M&amp;A that you’re focused on your core markets.
So any thoughts though about going into other geographies that you haven’t been in? Is that something that you think might make sense longer term with your new brand strategy and leveraging that in other markets? Yes Colin this is Jon Ferrando.
I wouldn’t – we are focused on our core markets but we also look at secondary markets that fit into our management infrastructure.
So that is certainly a possibility if we find the right assets that are very attractive and that fit nicely into a secondary market that we can manage from our existing regional management structure.
Okay.
And one last question.
There’s been some articles about the CFPB starting to look at add-on F&amp;I products.
Is there a risk there or any concern about potential regulation on those non-financing products? We have seen zero real activity in that area.
All the focus is on the reserve amount.
When you think about the reserve amount in all the discussions of deal reserve be put under the microscope if we look at our finance income the markup to the customer is about 90 basis points.
Our income is higher than that because the bank is paying us a higher origination fee than what’s in the contract for having originated the loan.
So our finance income is a combination of a markup on a loan to a consumer of 90 basis points on average and an additional contribution from the bank.
So CFPB is focused on the customer portion and our 90 basis points is so in line with their thinking.
That’s why I think we’ll find common ground and the solution.
My sense is that CFPB will be very satisfied if they can come to an industry agreement on how dealer reserve works.
It’s always hard to predict the future with the government but I do not see a lot of scrutiny around the product issue.
Okay all right.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
The next question is from Rod Lache with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Rod.
A couple things on used.
It seems like a growing number of retailers are focusing on used now and some are experimenting with the category to drive growth; a couple things on that.
Are there signs that the category might become somewhat more competitive going forward? Has AutoNation reassessed the used model the used business model in any significant way? And is there a digital opportunity here as well which would help you leverage the inventory beyond individual stores? It’s Mike Maroone.
First of all it’s certainly a very competitive environment and a lot of the discussions about what’s happening going forward haven’t yet occurred.
So people that are announcing they’re going to open stores haven’t even opened a store.
Certainly CarMax had a pretty aggressive opening.
So it’s been a very competitive environment.
Will it be more competitive going forward? Yes.
The market is huge.
The market’s over 40 million a year versus a new car market in the 16.
Had we reassessed our desire to go outside of our current store footprint? The answer is no.
We think we got plenty ability to drive that business in our current footprint.
We’ve been in the standalone business again and I don’t see us going back.
Is there an opportunity in digital? There’s a huge opportunity in digital and that’s why we rebranded the company coast-to-coast and believe that we’ll be able over time to provide more traffic driven to our website that we think can give us really nice returns.
Okay great.
And can you also just quickly comment on what drove the $80 million of other revenue in the quarter? It seemed like that was a pretty meaningful uptick.
Other revenue is on the fleet side so what you see there is an increase in fleet which is not a material portion of our business.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Brian Sponheimer with Gabelli.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Brian.
With all the recall activity and all the publicity that GM has gotten it really hasn’t shown up in their retail sales.
Just anecdotally what are your GM level dealers telling you about what customers are saying when they’re coming back? And if you’re thinking two three years down the road does this open any opportunities for you from an acquisition bases to potentially buy more GM dealers than say a discount than you would some other brands? This is Mike Jackson.
There’s a clear rather sophisticated bifurcation in the consumer’s mind about the situation with GM.
On the one hand everybody sees this catastrophic tragedy that occurred around this ignition switch but they definitely blame that on the old GM and the old GM culture.
And at the same time they see that the new GM has taken all the appropriate steps you would expect a responsible company to take.
Mary Barra has given exceptional leadership from meeting with the victims’ families to the (indiscernible) to deal report which is riveting reading and he spared nothing to her to deal with the compensation issue.
And also clearly GM is looking at anything and everything that should even think about being recalled and recalling it that sort of hit the reset button with the vehicles they have on the road and what they have in the pipeline.
So that’s resulted in the business today.
Within the GM stores is actually quite good.
The consumers like the new products they’re buying the new products and as long as GM continues and Mary continues to give this level of leadership through the remainder of the crisis I think GM will be fine.
We have not seen or been presented with any GM store in a distressed sale circumstance and I don’t expect that circumstance to develop.
Okay.
Thank you.
Just one other question just kind of big picture for the market.
We’re starting to get some deceleration or certainly some declines actually in housing starts particularly in the southern United States.
Is that affecting how you’re thinking about potential increases and specifically in pick-up truck sales but also whether we may be running out of a little bit of steam for large several purchases? As far as the economic outlook housing is in a cyclical recovery after a horrendous readjustment period of six years and it will now be a long recovery.
Will it be perfect every month every quarter? No of course not but I think for the next several years we are optimistic about the U.S.
economy and that includes housing auto energy.
You really put it together and on a run rate throwing out the first quarter as anomaly I mean high 2% if not 3% GDP growth is entirely possible.
So we are not concerned about it.
All right thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from David Lim with Wells Fargo.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
I just wanted to sort of ask about the used vehicles.
Going into Q2 I think you mentioned that inventories were light but I’m sort of curious.
Back in Q1 I would have imagined that you may have anticipated the flow in Q2 or was there an issue where there wasn’t enough new vehicle sales to drive the trade? And if you can give additional color on that I would appreciate it.
This is Mike Maroone.
We had good enough new vehicle sales.
We didn’t take the kind of trades we wanted to take.
And late in the quarter we went out and started supplementing that inventory and built that inventory as the quarter went along.
Again there was plenty of CPO product and there was a lot of high mileage product both of which we liked but that mid tier affordable used car we didn’t acquire enough of them.
And so we just need to redouble our efforts there.
Was that just a function of availability as you’re exiting Q1 or was there some sort of other circumstance behind that? The market was very – it was very tight through Q1 and coming into Q2 and again we didn’t – we always have pressure on values in Q2 as you move towards the summer but we just didn’t acquire enough of the right product.
Again we’ve now done that and has experienced a nice short-term growth in the business.
Got you.
And then the other question I have is just to clarify did you hire additional technicians in Q2? And if so if it weren’t for the hiring of those technicians how would P&amp;S gross margin how would that have come in in the quarter? This is not just a Q2 initiative.
We’ve been ramping our technician population up and have – again we have a goal of 400.
We’re over halfway through that goal but we also have expanded our quick service capability tremendously and those techs aren’t quite as efficient as your shop techs.
So we continue to push the envelope and think there’s even more opportunity there.
So it’s a key initiative in the company.
Another way to answer the question Dave is if we were not adding technicians we would not be able to grow the business.
Our utilization rates in the high 90s.
Okay.
So you’re utilization rate.
When you say utilization rate in the 90s is that related to your base or technicians or how should I think about that? That’s related to the technicians.
Okay.
Yes the capacity issue is on the technician side not on the base side but that’s taking your technicians and available hours and to Mike’s point we’re in the high 90s and that’s why we’re accelerating our efforts.
So to sort of talk about that a little more so you don’t have an issue with base capacity it’s mainly technician capacity now.
Are you finding it difficult to hire more qualified technicians? Yes it’s an issue.
These are great paying jobs.
If you take the top 20% average paid is above 75 000; top 10% is in six figures.
These are very well paying jobs for skilled individuals but we are competing with other industries for this technical skill.
If you look at the energy industry like fracking I mean that’s completely different than drilling an oil well and checking on it in five years.
I mean that’s like running a factory.
There is technical people on those fracking sites all the time.
So there is a real demand in industry multiple industry for individuals with technical skills that are willing to pay very well for but it’s not like – we say we need to hire more technicians we got a line standing at the door with applications and we just bring them in.
We really have to go out and find them.
So that’s a critical path for us on growing the customer care business.
So the question there is I know that a lot of people have been discussing this wave of zero to five zero to six-year-old vehicles coming through but it seems like the real bottleneck to really take advantage of that particular wave is having enough technicians on hand.
I mean how would you – would you categorize that as a true statement or is there some sort of thing that I’m missing there? I think the unexpected level of recalls this year made your statement true.
In that if we had more technical capability we would be growing faster right now.
We had not folded into the plan a record year of – who knows what the final number will be? 40 million 45 million recalls whatever it is.
So in that sense it gives you an indicator how on the margin we are here and just that surge in demand we are at this point substituting recall work for normal customer care work because we don’t enough technicians.
So that’s why we raised it as an issue but I’d also say it’s not something we can fix from one day to the next but we have increased our plans at technical capacity.
And one final question for you Mike Jackson where do you think U.S.
sales will eventually plateau? Well I said that the sustainable rate is between 16 million and 17 million.
We give a forecast at the beginning of the year for the specific year.
I think we can sustain something between 16 million and 17 million even when rates begin to normalize next year but I am not one of those who sits here and says you can make a case for 18 million or 19 million.
From today’s vantage point I don’t see that.
If it happens I’d welcome it but it’s not in our plan.
We see a sustainable rate between 16 million and 17 million.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
The next question is from James Albertine with Stifel.
Great.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
I’ll keep it relatively brief and sorry to beat a dead horse here with a question on used but I want to understand – arguably nobody is doing as much incremental work considering that you’re ahead of the curve here on this coast-to-coast branding and digital initiative arguably.
So I want to understand conceptually which is more important considering where we are in the new cycle.
Is an incremental new vehicle customer or sale more or less important than a used vehicle customer or sale? So how do you think about how each of those impacts the broader ecosystem? Well I think it depends quite frankly on the brand.
If you take our premium luxury business it’s booming.
We have tremendous demand for both new and used so there’s no tension there.
I think in the domestic business as I called out earlier trucks are having a great year and that’s a traditional strong point of the domestics so there’s no real tension there.
I think on the Asian business and we’ve talked about it before with the stair-step and very aggressive volume-based incentive programs that at the store level at certain points in the month there is a dilemma and a tension between new and used because you’re staring at a very specific new target that has to be met and you have a finite amount of traffic.
So I think it’s an issue there and we’re working very hard to balance that.
Mike you want to add something.
I agree with what Mike said and where we really sought is we saw a fall up in the CPO business in the import segment for just the reason he described.
It becomes that inflection point where if you’re going to hit the target you really need to push in one direction.
So that’s where it really showed up.
Thank you.
Last question please.
The final question is from David Whiston with Morningstar.
Thanks.
Looking at your new vehicle brand mix within premium luxury Lexus had a lot of the growth in that segment from a mix point of view.
Can you talk about what Lexus models are selling well and what type of consumer demographic is driving that increase? First of all Lexus has had a number of new products on the car side.
They’ve always dominated on the crossover side at least in the premium luxury.
They’ve got capacity that others don’t have so we’re seeing real strength in the Lexus line.
It’s really performed very well for us.
We do not have a lot of stores but the stores we have have high throughput but it’s both in the sedans and in the crossovers.
Okay.
And briefly since we’re running out of time here could you just on the age-old question with Tesla during the background stores versus the franchise model can you just comment on why franchise model works? Why do you think it’s superior? So first I think Elon Musk has the right to pick whatever distribution system he wants since there is no existing Tesla dealers to harm.
When I look at the franchise model I see that the consumer – what a consumer pays for a vehicle around 6% is for retail distribution.
6% of the price they’re paying goes to the retailer.
I don’t think you can find another industry that has a comparable number and that we have to pay all our costs out of that.
So it’s highly cost effective for the consumer and it’s also highly cost effective for the manufacturer.
Again where else can you distribute a product and only have 6% of its price dedicated to retail distribution costs.
So if we were sitting on big fat margins that would be one thing but it’s very hard to create another model that’s going to make that 6% even more efficient than what it already is.
There can be some movement here or there but that’s not the case.
So that’s how I think about it.
Then you say well how are you guys still in business with that small frontend margin? Well it’s because of used cars finance insurance service and parts and collision.
All the other things we do where we have high-added value and higher margins.
So it’s a system that works for all constituencies and I’m very optimistic very confident that 10 to 15 years 20 years from now this auto franchise system will still be in place.
Thank you everyone for your time today.
We very much appreciate all your questions.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you all for joining.
Welcome to AutoNation’s Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Today’s conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I will turn the call over to Robert Quartaro Senior Manager of Investor Relations for AutoNation.
Good morning and welcome to AutoNation’s third quarter 2014 conference call and webcast.
Leading our call today will be Mike Jackson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mike Maroone our President and Chief Operating Officer; Cheryl Scully our Chief Financial Officer; and Jon Ferrando our Executive Vice President responsible for M&amp;A.
Following their remarks we will open up the call for questions.
Rob Quartaro and I will be available by phone following the call to address any additional questions that you may have.
Before we begin let me read our brief statement regarding forward-looking comments.
Certain statements and information on this call will constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve risks which may cause the actual results or performance to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Additional discussions of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are contained in our press release issued earlier today and our SEC filings including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K.
Certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules will be discussed on this call.
Reconciliations are provided in our press release which is available on our website at investors.autonation.com.
And now I’ll turn the call over to AutoNation’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mike Jackson.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
Today we reported our sixteenth consecutive quarter of double-digit year-over-year growth in earnings per share from continuing operations or $0.90 in the third quarter an all-time record and 20% increase as compared to EPS from continuing operations of $0.75 for the same period in prior year.
Third quarter 2014 revenue totaled $4.9 billion compared to $4.5 billion in the year-ago period an increase of 10% driven by strong performance in all of our business sectors.
In the third quarter AutoNation’s total retail unit sales increased 8% operating income improved 11% to $207 million.
AutoNation also completed the Acquisition of Mercedes Benz of Belleview Barrier Audi Barrier Porsche and Barrier Volvo in Seattle Belleview.
The annual revenue for these stores is approximately $355 million.
In addition AutoNation was awarded a new Porsche franchise in Orange County California which is expected to open in 2016 and will have annual revenue of approximately $100 million.
This will be our 20th Mercedes-Benz franchise eighth Audi franchise the fifth Porsche franchise and fifth Volvo franchise.
In 2014 we have repurchased 8% of our outstanding shares.
Regarding the recent discussions on used vehicles we view the improved supply and lower acquisition cost of used cars as a positive development.
We believe volume and improved front-end gross opportunities will exist in the used vehicle business due to increasing supply of used cars and lower acquisition cost.
I’ll now turn over to our Chief Financial officer Cheryl Scully.
Thanks Mike and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
For the third quarter we reported net income from continuing operations of $107 million or $0.90 per share versus net income of $93 million or $0.75 per share during the third quarter of 2013 a 20% improvement on a per share basis.
There were no adjustments in net income in either period.
In the third quarter revenue increased $438 million or 10% compared to the prior year and gross profit improved $56 million or 8%.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross profit was 69.4% for the quarter which represents a 20 basis point decrease compared to the year ago period.
Net new vehicle floor plan was a benefit of $14.9 million an increase of $2 million from the third quarter of 2013 primarily due to higher floor plan assistance.
Floor plan assistance increased due to higher new vehicle sales and an increase in the floor plan assistance rate per unit.
Floor plan debt decreased sequentially approximately $94 million during the third quarter to $2.8 billion at quarter end due to lower inventory balances.
Non-vehicle interest expense decreased to $21.7 million compared to $22.3 million in the third quarter of 2013 due to a decrease in mortgages and capital leases that carry longer term rates.
At the end of September we had $410 million of outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility and a total non-vehicle debt balance of $1.9 billion.
This was an increase of $50 million compared to June 30 2014.
The provision for income tax in the quarter was $67.1 million or 38.6%.
From July 1 2014 through October 27 2014 we repurchased 5.8 million shares for $304.4 million at an average price of $52.23 per share.
Today we announced that our board authorized repurchase of up to an addition 250 million of AutoNation common stock.
AutoNation has approximately 281 million of remaining Board authorization for share repurchase.
As of October 27 there were approximately 113 million shares outstanding.
This does not include the dilutive impact of stock options.
Our leverage ratio remained at 2.2 times at the end of Q3 as compared to Q2.
The leverage ratio was 2.1 times on a net debt basis including used floor plan availability and our covenant limit is 3.75 times.
Capital expenditures were $52 million for the quarter and we expect CapEx to be approximately $190 million for the year.
This is up from our original estimate of $180 million due to expenditures related to recent acquisitions.
Capital expenditures are on an accrual basis and exclude operating lease buyouts and related asset sales.
Our quarter end cash balance was $68 million which combined with our additional borrowing capacity resulted in total liquidity of $862 million at the end of September.
We continue to demonstrate financial strength and robust cash flow generation.
We remain committed to driving long-term shareholder value through our opportunistic approach to capital allocation.
Now let me turn you over to our President and Chief Operating Officer Mike Maroone.
Thanks Cheryl and good morning.
We are pleased with our results in the third quarter having delivered a 4.2% operating margin along the solid overall performance.
This marks the 16th consecutive quarter of double-digit EPS growth and a record quarter EPS.
As I continue my comments will be on a same-store basis and compared to the period a year ago starting with sales.
We were pleased to grow total gross profit for variable operations in the quarter by 6%.
On a per vehicle basis total variable growth was up slightly to $3 176 per vehicle increasing in gross profit per vehicle for both used vehicles and customer financial services were offset by a decline in new vehicle gross profit per vehicle which I’ll expand on in a moment.
Relative to new vehicles in the quarter same-store new vehicle revenue increased $229 million or 9% to $2.8 billion on the sale of 82 500 new vehicles an increase of 5 700 vehicles or 7%.
New vehicle gross profit of $155 million was flat and $1 876 per vehicle was off $145 which we attribute to the new vehicle marketplace remaining intensely competitive particularly with respect to the import segment.
I’ll also note that manufacture volume based incentive programs with high sales targets are becoming more prevalent in all segments and are contributing to inter-brand margin pressure.
In Q4 we believe that the seasonal margin lift driven by premium luxury segment coupled with operational improvement should deliver a sequential lift of approximately $200 to new vehicle profit per vehicle retailed.
At September 30 our new vehicle inventory was 57 days compared to 58 days a year ago.
Turning to used vehicles in the quarter we re-doubled our efforts and the result was a solid performance.
In the quarter retail used vehicle revenue was $1 billion an increase of $103 million or 11%.
We retailed 56 000 used vehicles an increase of 3 400 used vehicles or 6%.
Revenue per used vehicle retailed increased $569 or 4% to $18 500.
Retail used vehicle gross profit of $91 million was up 10% – $10 million or 13% and gross profit per used vehicle retailed was $1 620 an increase of $92 or 6%.
We grew our used vehicle inventory through Q2 to position ourselves for increased volume in Q3 and then paid-off.
We’re working hard to increase sourcing of used vehicles from trades to optimize our mix of use vehicles and to price each and every used vehicle to the market.
At the end of the third quarter our used vehicle day supply was 32 days compared to 31 days a year ago.
At this level we feel we’re well positioned heading into the end of the year.
Next customer financial services.
During the quarter we achieved gross profit per vehicle retailed of $1 403 an increase of $52 or 4%.
Total gross profit for customer financial services of $194 million was up $20 million or 11% compared to the period a year ago.
The commitment of our CFS team to continue its improvement of store level execution and the customer experience once again drove positive results.
Additionally we continue to focus on building a long-term customer retention through value added product offerings.
Next customer care or service parts and collision where the third quarter marked two consecutive quarters of record customer care revenue and gross profit.
In the quarter customer care revenue of $710 million increased $58 million or 9% and total customer care gross profit also grew 9% or $24 million to $301 million.
I’ll note that looking ahead we anticipate customer care gross comps will be in the mid single-digit range we previously discussed absent elevated recall activity.
Expanding on gross warranty gross increased 23% with recalls accounting for about 60% of the increase on a dollar basis.
In the quarter recalls comprise approximately 4% of total customer care gross profit.
We also delivered a 9% increase in collision gross and the 17th consecutive quarterly increase in customer pay gross which grew 4%.
We are very pleased with the performance of our customer care team ongoing efforts on operational improvement the areas of traffic appointments and customer satisfaction are driving results.
In closing we continue to develop both digital and store capabilities that will further support our mission to deliver a peerless customer experience.
I’d like to thank our 23 000 plus associates for their commitment and dedication to the company and for their contribution to another record quarter EPS.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Jon Ferrando.
Thank you Mike.
Last week we completed the previously announced acquisition of Barrier motors a premium luxury business in the Seattle Belleview market with annual revenue of $355 million.
The closing of the transaction and pre-closing integration were well executed by our team and the stores are now operating as Mercedes-Benz Belleview Audi Belleview Porsche Belleview and AutoNation Volvo Belleview.
The acquisition greatly enhances our brand mix in the market positioning us with excellent premium luxury offerings from outstanding facilities in Seattle Belleview including a new Porsche facility that will open in mid-December.
We are very excited to welcome the more than 325 associates from Barrier motors to the AutoNation family.
Including the Barrier transaction AutoNation now owns and operates 22 franchises in the State of Washington including 13 franchises in the Seattle Belleview market.
We also announced today the award of a Porsche franchise in Orange County California an excellent premium luxury market where we currently operate 10 franchises.
We expect the new Porsche store to open in 2016 and generate annual revenue of approximately $100 million once fully operational.
Over the last 10 quarters we have acquired 18 franchises and been awarded six new premium luxury franchises by the manufacturers.
The 2013 revenue for the 18 acquired franchises together with the expected annual revenue of the six franchises awarded to us once they are fully operational is approximately $1.6 billion.
As of today our store portfolio number is 277 franchises and 233 stores in 15 states representing 34 manufacture brands.
Looking forward we will continue to actively pursue acquisitions and new store opportunities with a focus on enhancing brand representation within our existing markets and also markets that can be supported by our existing management infrastructure.
We will continue to be selective and prudent with our capital with a focus on investing to produce strong returns and long-term shareholder value.
I will now turn it back to Mike Jackson.
Thanks Jon.
The auto recovery is continuing to build momentum with the third-quarter selling rate at the highest level since the recession.
The auto credit environment remains strong.
And consumers continue to embrace innovative products from the manufacturers.
As we look forward towards 2015 we believe improving in new vehicle sales will continue and expect industry new vehicle sales to be above $17 million.
Thank you.
We’ll now take your questions.
(Operator Instructions).
The first question is from Gary Balter with Credit Suisse.
Hi it’s actually Andrew on for Gary.
Last quarter you mentioned increasing technicians to drive the customer pay portion of the PNS business.
Obviously the PNS comp accelerated this quarter in part to the recalls.
But how is that initiative going and what do you think the tailwind or the impact of that initiative could be? Andrew its Mike Maroone.
Our target was to add 400 technicians we’re currently at 372 so I think we made great progress.
I think there is still a lot more opportunity in the business.
As we called out we’re still looking at mid-single-digit growth absent in the elevated recall activity.
As you know the recall activity is not in our control but certainly the business is and we want to continue to grow the business by adding productivity and adding more technicians.
So would you say the technicians have already had an impact in your PNS business or is it more an elongated benefit? I definitely think they’ve had an impact.
And we think there is even more opportunity.
So that 372 we could not have achieved the results we did without adding those 372 techs.
Understood.
Good luck in Q4.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Rick Nelson with Stephens.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I’m interested to know if there was incremental digital marketing spend this quarter and the gross profit flow through as we calculated 34% including rent if you think those levels are sustainable? Rick this is Mike Jackson.
The investment in digital continues both from a marketing point of view and from an investment point of view and capabilities.
Cheryl did you hear the second part of the question? Yes Rick with respect to your question we continue to target below 70% SG&amp;A as a percentage of growth.
Even with the investment in digital.
So for the quarter we maintained a focus on disciplined cost controls across the board.
And we also did realize some leverage from improvements in growth particularly in used and customer care.
But 70% still remains our target even with digital.
Thanks for that.
Mike I also wanted to follow-up on your comments about the used car business.
There has been concerns out there about falling prices.
Do you view this as an opportunity? Rick I have a contrarian view as often happens.
If I look if you go back to the great crash of ‘08 ‘09 and ‘10 when sales collapsed.
Then through the last few years there has been an extreme shortage of used cars which has inflated used car values to record levels which has pushed pricing for used cars right up against new cars.
And on the showroom floor there is an considerable debate between the price of the used car and the price of new car and in many cases we’ve had a discount the used car in order to keep it away from the new car.
And that’s under unusual circumstances that have acquisition cost that high.
Now the table is turning.
Used car availability is going to be significantly higher over the next several years.
I expect valuations to fall.
So I’m sitting here saying I’m going to have greater supply and lower acquisition cost moving away from the new vehicle market back to a more normal traditional gap we should be able to have higher volumes and higher margins.
Now there could be a tactical adjustment in any given quarter with inventories moving I’m not that concerned about what you have to do in any given quarter on adjustments.
I think all that’s manageable.
If I look over the next several years it makes me more optimistic about the used car business.
Great.
Thanks for that commentary and good luck.
Thank you.
The next question is from John Murphy with Bank of America.
Good morning.
Just a follow-up on the used car pricing topic Mike.
I mean we’re seeing pricing still trend higher in your results and every other dealer that has reported so far yet supply does seem like it is increasing.
So it just seems like the demand function is incredibly strong for travel utility.
And I’m just trying to understand when you think pricing will actually decline because we haven’t even seen an increase in the demand function being miles driven yet and as gas prices drop miles driven should increase.
It just seems like this strong used vehicle pricing might be something worth dealing with for a while which is a good thing but in some ways it is a bad thing.
I’m just curious you are not seeing it yet? Let’s put a number of it.
The index is at 125 if you go back towards the beginning of the year and it’s now right around 120 on a downward trend line.
So it is a very manageable transition.
We look at the lease rates of years ago and can calculate the return rate that’s coming in the next year or two.
And it’s a substantial increase in availability over the next several years.
And I expect this inflated index which now is at 122 continue on a gradual downward decline.
Okay so the increase that you saw in used vehicle pricing in the quarter of 4.4% despite the index coming down was a result of mix or – I mean because the index is one thing but the actual numbers are showing increases so it’s just a little bit confounding? That’s most likely a CPO mix or something.
Yes John our CPO business was up 16% against the total business being up 6%.
So it’s definitely mix driven.
The one thing I’ll point out about our used car business is we consciously moved our inventories up.
Mike Jackson asked us to be more aggressive.
We moved our inventory up by 4 400 units and we sold 3 400 more and still ended the quarter with a day supply of 3 200.
So we’re really pleased with the effort and we expanded margin.
Our retail used vehicle gross on a same store basis was up 13%.
But I think the aggressive move to stock more worked out well.
And the CPO market continues to be a strong part of the business.
Okay.
That’s incredibly helpful.
And then just Cheryl just on the 3.7 times net debt covenant is that the only covenant that you have right now that would be restrictive or is there any RP basket that exists? There is no RP basket anymore John.
We do have a debt to cap which is 65% test and more at 57% on that.
So there’s lots of room on both covenants then is the point? Yes we have plenty of room and a lot of liquidity.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thanks guys.
Good quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Brett Hoselton with KeyBanc.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I was hoping you could comment on capital deployment in general.
You just announced an additional share repurchase authorization.
You’ve got $281 million remaining but you repurchased $236 million in the third quarter and that kind of suggests that you are either going to reauthorize very soon or you may be slowing down the pace of repurchase.
And I’m wondering if maybe you are shifting your focus away from share repurchase and possibly towards acquisitions.
How should we think about that? You’re over-thinking it.
We always move in increments of $250 million so that’s just our standard and sometimes that $250 million can be in place for a year and sometimes it could be in place in a month.
So it is no indication of future behavior.
And as I’ve said often we act very opportunistically when we look at the balance between – while we always invest in the stores and our initiatives first and then we look at the pipeline owned acquisition where the stock price is at where we think the markets all is going overall as far as new vehicle used vehicle sales.
And then we make a decision.
So you can look at our track record and say wow these guys know how to allocate capital.
I don’t think we’ll forget how to do that.
But as far as looking at tea leaves to figure out what we’re going to do next you can’t look at the size of the authorization to say it’s indicative of anything.
Fair enough.
And then on the acquisition front can you comment just about what you are seeing in terms of maybe the number of deals that you are possibly looking at multiples and so forth? And then a second question along those lines is just simply there are some investors that are concerned that there are maybe some limitations on your ability to buy additional franchises based on some of the OEMs potentially saying you can only have so many franchises and I was hoping you could comment on that as well? Hi Brett its Jon Ferrando.
So in terms of the pipeline of acquisition opportunities there are we’re evaluating plenty of opportunities today.
And we expect a solid pipeline of opportunities over the next few years.
We get looks at a lot of deals and we’re well positioned to be selective in what we acquire as far as the pricing out there.
I think it’s difficult to generalize pricing and multiples as every deal is very different.
And there is a number of factors that drive pricing.
We certainly get to look at a lot of potential deals where the seller has unrealistic price expectations.
And we will simply pass on those deals if they don’t meet our financial return criteria.
But you can see we had a pretty good track record over the last couple of years of reaching agreement price to acquire 18 excellent franchises in our core markets with attractive return prospects.
And we expect that that will continue over the next few years.
Thank you very much gentlemen.
Thank you.
The next question is from Colin Langan with UBS.
Great thanks for taking my questions.
I’m sorry if I missed it any color on the weakness in the new vehicle gross margin in the quarter? Yes Colin its Mike Maroone.
First our view of the business is we look at the total variable gross on a per vehicle retail basis.
And we’re now at four consecutive quarters of improvement.
So sometimes we get it on the used side sometimes we get it on the customer financial services side.
Sometimes we get it on the new vehicle side.
The new vehicle side certainly has some pressure primarily in the imports segment.
But as we look forward we’re looking forward to Q4 of picking up on a sequential basis about another $200 due to two factors which is seasonality with a strong premium luxury performance and also operational improvements.
So yes it’s a competitive market in part driven by volume based incentive.
But we think we’re managing it very well and very pleased with our fourth consecutive quarter of improvement.
Okay.
And then on the parts and services growth of 9% is it about 4% I’m not sure if I got that right is the benefit from the recall work? And when you talk about going forward being in the mid-single range I assume the recalls don’t drop off so is it mid-single plus recall help as well in the near term? So the recalls were about 4% of the business.
In this particular quarter there were 27% of the customer care gross profit improvement.
But we look at the business we do not try and forecast what recall activity is going to do.
So when we say mid-single-digit that excludes that elevated recall activity.
There is a moderate recall activity I think that’s build in.
But when it elevates the way it did in this last quarter certainly we would forecast a little bit higher.
And do you think though that most of the major recalls have been brought back already or should we still see some elevated level in Q4? I think the GM recalls are pretty much under control.
I don’t see a big spike there.
Certainly with all the airbag activity I think that’s the wildcard out there how deep and far that goes is yet to be seen.
Okay and just one last question.
Any updated thoughts on the potential for CFPB regulation? Do you think lenders are going to switch to flat fees? Any sense there from the lenders you work with? No no new since the last call.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
The next question is from Irina Hodakovsky with KeyBanc.
Most of the questions were asked.
If I can follow-up your F&amp;I gross profit per unit you’ve hit a record high $1 401.
How can we this continues to happen every quarter and if you can again tell us what is driving that product penetration or financing and do you believe you can continue to grow this? Irina its Mike Maroone.
It’s almost totally driven by product penetration.
Our finance reserve is less than $500 of the $1 400.
And we continue to make really good progress in really presenting customers with value added products.
We’ve narrowed down our product line-up.
And I think are doing a real good job of executing.
Is there more opportunity going forward? We believe there is.
And we break our stores into cortiles and really have an intense focus on the third and fourth cortile driving improvement there.
So we think there is opportunity we’re also just as diligent on the compliance side because we want to make sure it’s done right and are really pleased with our total efforts in customer financial services.
Thank you very much.
Good luck.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from David Tamberrino with Goldman Sachs.
Hi great thank you.
Mike for 2015 wondering what kind of gives you the confidence in growth from the year-to-date trend of $16.4 million to above $17 million? And then along those lines does that have a potential for increased regulation from the CFPB on subprime auto lending? Could that retard the growth or do you think that there is as much pent-up demand and the industry can kind of growth that fast in spite of that incremental regulation? Yes.
So I’ve been clear that the rate of growth is slowing.
And I expect this year to end up around $16.5 million I mean think about it we had a selling rate of $16.8 million in the third quarter.
So we’re going to be in the mid-to-high 16s for the fourth quarter.
So you’re carrying a very good selling rate into next year.
When you talk about the new car business there is not an over-dependence upon subprime whatsoever.
People are paying off their car loans at record levels of reliability.
Even though the average loan is 63 months they’re being paid off in less than 40 months.
So the car payment remains their first payment made in the household.
We still have exciting new products in the manufacture and we still have an average age of 11.4.
So to forecast a 3% increase for next year is not that far out there as a bold statement.
Of course anything that begins with a 17 has only happened twice before I recognize that.
But I think indeed the market will break through $17 million.
And then I think even as rates normalize in the Federal Reserve and through therefore through lenders I see no reason the industry can’t continue to run in the high 16 to around 17 for several years.
Okay interesting.
Along the lines and just in terms of subprime customers do you have the current percentage breakout of AutoNation sales for new that it subprime and then how that has trended over the past couple of years? I don’t think we have it split.
I think we have it for total.
But we can get that for you and then send it to you.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
The next question is from David Lim with Wells Fargo.
Good morning everybody can you hear me? Yes we can.
Good morning.
Great.
So Mike Jackson I like your synopsis there on the $17 million and then obviously with the rates going up it could probably trend a little bit down.
But given that backdrop I want to sort of understand how can AutoNation grow on the topline and bottom line under that economic backdrop or the SAAR backdrop if you will? Well I think this year we’ve demonstrated that we’re significantly improving our operating result even with the significant investment that we have undergoing in digital.
And I see no reason that will change next year.
Yes we have slower growth in new vehicles I think the used vehicle opportunity remains clear in our view.
We’re going to grow mid-single-digits in customer care not including any search activity in recall.
And as just Maroone described in customer financial services we still see opportunity.
So there you go.
And then my second question is I know that I asked this last quarter and maybe the quarter before on the SG&amp;A to gross profit again an impressive result.
I know that Cheryl has mentioned the low 70% level but are there may be inklings inside within your organization where you could achieve maybe the 69% or 68% level when it comes to SG&amp;A to gross? Yes.
We’ve certainly been the target is below 70%.
We’ve certainly been in these ranges before.
And I think at some point getting back there there is seasonality there has been variability in it.
And certainly there are some different cadence of digital.
But I still think it’s a target.
And I think certainly those types of ranges are very much on the table particularly as we enter into $17 million SAAR environment.
Is that more driven by a step function and maybe your internal IT or systems automation or how do you get there? It’s across the board.
And we have a number of procurement initiatives we put in place.
Certainly we continue to automate and we continue to optimize process and staffing.
And certainly there is different flow through relative to business segments when you have a segment like customer care growing you’re going to expect to see a higher flow through.
When you see customer financial services growing you’re going to see a higher flow-through in that area as well.
So I would say it’s not just one thing we’re relying on it’s just a culture of continued discipline on cost control.
Great excellent.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
The next question is from James Albertine with Stifel.
Great.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
Let me add my congratulations in particular on your strength in used both on units and profit which was a surprise to us certainly versus our model.
So congratulations there.
Thank you.
If I may just ask one housekeeping item as it relates to your dollar value used gross profit per unit.
Is there – just remind us is there an accounting convention with respect to reconditioning that would limit that relative to your peers or is it something with respect to your mix historically that has driven that number to sort of the lower end of the public dealership range? And I guess my point is does that indicate that you have more opportunity to grow from here? I don’t think there is anything particular I’d call out.
Just as a reminder we do account for our internal reconditioning within parts and service we do that not at 100% growth base system what some of our peers do.
But there is nothing that particularly impacts used that I think is unusual callout versus peer performance.
Okay great.
Thanks for that clarification.
And then I wanted to ask now that you’ve it seems in the last year year and a half become more focused on an M&amp;A driven sort of growth strategy understanding your comments around share repurchases but just want to focus on M&amp;A for a moment.
As you’re looking at these potential targets and some of the dealers that you’ve already acquired and integrated where do you see the biggest early stage opportunities? Is there a deviation as it relates to used retail to new retail or what are some of the lower hanging fruit opportunities as you see it from that perspective? James this is Jon.
That differs by deals.
So in certain dealership acquisitions it can be on the cost side where we may have a significant advantage that we can execute on early in other deals that maybe a used opportunity in terms of retail volume.
And in other deals it may be F&amp;I.
So the answer really is on a transaction by transaction basis.
We certainly have a tremendous operating experience and we really use that diagnose and evaluate the business and see where the opportunities are.
Thanks again for the detail and good luck in the fourth quarter.
Thanks Jamie.
Thank you.
The next question is from Brian Sponheimer with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Hi good morning.
Congratulations on a great quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Regarding M&amp;A there have been some high profile acquisitions currently in process and that have been made over the last year.
I guess one just kind of looking back what kept you from being involved in a DCH or a Van Tuyl and would you have the appetite if something came along that one would fit within your OEM regulations and two kind of fit your M&amp;A model? Well in the DCH deal it’s just not for us.
It’s high Asian concentration in the LA New York markets.
And we already have a big Asian presence on the West Coast.
And we’re not prepared to go into the New York market.
So strategically it just didn’t fit.
And on the Van Tuyl deal again the overlap was considerable with our footprint.
And just didn’t fit.
Okay.
And if I’m thinking about repurchases and I echo the comments you made this morning on TV that you’ve been a plus 6 with capital allocation what is it about the stock right now that has you excited versus maybe a slower pace earlier in the year? Well again I don’t like to give too much insight on to exactly how we do it because everybody is trying to extrapolate what we’re going to do in the future.
And sometimes we do things in an unpredictable way just so people can’t pin down the pattern.
So I sort of just stand on the whole track record of having bought in 80% of our shares over my tenure here at an average price of $18.
And the basic idea is that on the contrary and when I see the market going one way but I see it very different then we move very aggressively.
So for instance when everybody says the used cars is going to be a headwind because valuations are going down and I’m looking at it and saying well I think used cars is going to be an opportunity because we have a greater supply at lower cost.
And I see it reflected in the stock price and I say now is a good time to buy until everyone comes around to conclusion.
Now the point of all that is ultimately you have to be right rather than wrong in that point of view where it will all work.
But we’re very focused on building the company growing the business and buying shares back on an opportunistic basis when I see when we see a dislocation between the conventional view and a contrarian view.
And we’re willing to act aggressively on that point of view.
You have been outstanding so far.
Congratulations and best wishes.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Paresh Jain with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning everyone.
I believe many of my questions related to the quarter have been answered so let me ask a few strategic ones.
First on no haggle pricing strategy we recently saw an article on how Edmonds has already got 8 000 dealers to sign up for their version of no haggle pricing.
And we already know that one of your peers has already moved to no haggle and another one is testing it in at least one of the stores with favorable results so far.
So wanted to get your sense of how you’re thinking about no haggle and whether AutoNation is testing it in any of its stores? So we think a lower intensity of negotiation is absolutely what the consumer desires and wants something more transparent easier with as little negotiation as possible.
I’m not saying one price but dramatically reduce negotiation.
Our barrier to get there is the manufacturers with their crazy incentive programs that create a system of three-card Monte that really multiple peer pricing changing from day to day.
That’s a complexity that’s hard to deal with.
We are in our digital effort under the flag of the AutoNation brand.
We will launch smart choice pricing starting in the South Florida market in December when we go transactional.
That will be very close to a no-haggle pricing as you can get very little negotiation in.
We think that’s where you need to be in the marketplace.
And we think we have a tremendous advantage over the third party such as admins in that they attract traffic to their sites but basically then they sell that customer to multiple dealers which then results in quite a bit of negotiation in haggling.
So we think we’re – we don’t have to have that hand-off that it could be seamless between our sites and the stores.
It’s going to be a competitive advantage and we’re very excited about the launch coming up in December.
Understood.
And talking about in-house capabilities you are also developing your lead gen business.
Can you give us an update on how far along are you in that process? The lead-gen business where we’re at? It’s Mike Maroone.
We have started trimming our third party leads and doing it opportunistically.
And continue to invest in our own brand.
Our whole intention is to invest in the AutoNation brand drive traffic to our sites and we’re doing that today.
And each quarter you’ll see us continue to trim the third party spending and we’re really trying to gage results measuring everything we do and are very pleased thus far.
Understood.
So it’s still in the early stages then.
And finally given where we are in the month and I have to ask in context to your expectations of high 16 million SAAR for 4Q how do you see October SAAR shaping up so far? I’m thinking very clear that I think the year is going to end at 16.5 and we only got three months to go.
So you can do the math and see what I think is going to happen over the three months.
And if there were problems in October I wouldn’t have said it.
So business is fine and we expect there to be good momentum going into next year that makes my plus 3% forecast to hit 17 million.
When you first say 17 million people go back and say oh my god how are you going to get there? Well it’s the second half of the year you already have – in 2014 you already have a selling rate in the high 16s.
It’s not going to take much to get to 17 million units next year.
That is very helpful.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our final question today is from David Whiston with Morningstar.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I was curious what percent of your technicians will be trained to prepare the aluminum F150 by early next year? It’s Mike Maroone.
We’ve got the bulk of our collision technicians at this point trained.
We actually are working on a shop-by-shop basis.
And we’re really pleased with our progress.
It’s really a great opportunity for us.
And I don’t have an exact percent of technicians but I think as of Q3 more than half of our shops were already trained for aluminum repair capability.
Okay so it sounds like you are not expecting any headwinds with that issue next year right? No I think it’s an opportunity for us.
I see the bigger players having the training capability and the ability to invest in the equipment.
It’s necessary.
So I think it’s an opportunity.
We’re really pleased with our collision business.
It’s growing nearly at double-digit pace.
And we think this is we think it’s a real good opportunity.
Okay thanks.
And in light of the dealer industries it seems to the more and more moving to the advantage of the big dealer groups and now with Berkshire entering do you see a possibility that one of the larger private groups might become a public player soon? No I would have no idea.
Okay.
That’s all I had.
Thank you.
Great.
Thank you everyone for joining us today.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you all for joining.
Welcome to AutoNation's fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I will turn the call over to Andrew Wamser Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations for AutoNation.
Good morning and welcome to AutoNation's fourth quarter 2014 conference call and webcast.
Leading our call today will be Mike Jackson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mike Maroone our President and Chief Operating Officer Cheryl Scully our Chief Financial Officer and Jon Ferrando our Executive Vice President responsible for M&amp;A.
Following their remarks we will open up the call for questions.
Rob Quartaro and I will also be available by phone following the call to address any additional questions that you may have.
Before we begin let me read our brief statement regarding forward-looking comments.
Certain statements and information on this call will constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve risks which may cause the actual results or performance to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Additional discussions of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are contained in our press release issued earlier today and our SEC filings including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K.
Certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules will be discussed on this call.
Reconciliations are provided in our press release which is available on our website at investors.autonation.com.
And now I will turn the call over to AutoNation's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mike Jackson.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
Today we have reported an all-time record quarterly earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.02 for the fourth quarter a 23% increase on a per-share basis as compared to $0.83 for the same period in the prior year.
This is our 17th consecutive quarter of double-digit year-over-year growth in quarterly EPS from continuing operations.
For the full year adjusted EPS from continuing operations of $3.49 was also an all-time record up 17% over prior year.
Fourth quarter 2014 revenue totaled $5 billion an increase of 12% driven by stronger performance in all our major business sectors.
We also reported an increase of 12% in operating income to $227 million.
Revenue for the full year was $19.1 billion up 9% over prior year.
Operating income for the full year was $821 million an increase of 11% over prior.
During 2014 AutoNation repurchased 9.4 million shares for an aggregate purchase price of $485 million.
As of February 2 2015 AutoNation has approximately 113 million shares outstanding.
Our planning assumption for 2015 industry new vehicle unit sales is above 17 million for the year.
We believe that replacement demand attractive products and great consumer credit will continue to support sales.
In 2015 we will continue to invest in our digital storefront of AutoNation Express.
We have successfully began our launch of December 2014 and we will continue to roll out AutoNation Express from coast-to-coast.
I will now turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Cheryl Scully.
Thank you Mike and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
For the fourth quarter we reported net income from continuing operations of $117 million or $1.02 per share versus adjusted net income of $102 million or $0.83 per share during the fourth quarter of 2013 a 23% improvement on a per-share basis.
There were no adjustments to net income in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Adjustments to net income in prior period are included in the reconciliations provided in our press release.
In the fourth quarter revenue increased $524 million or 12% compared to the prior year and gross profit improved $80 million or 11%.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross profit was 67.9% for the quarter which represents a 70 basis point decrease compared to the year ago period.
In addition to solid cost control SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross profit benefited from seasonally strong premium luxury vehicle sales which support new vehicle gross profit dollars as well as our expense leverage.
Net new vehicle floorplan was a benefit of $15.2 million an increase of $3.4 million from the fourth quarter of 2013 primarily due to higher floorplan assistance.
Floorplan assistance increased primarily due to higher new vehicle sales.
Floorplan debt increased sequentially approximately $323 million during the fourth to $3.1 billion at quarter-end due to increased inventory balances.
In December we amended our unsecured credit agreement by extending our maturity three years lowering our borrowing costs by 25 basis points increasing our revolving credit facility to $1.8 billion and eliminating the term loan.
In the amended facility the maximum leverage ratio remains at 3.75 times and the maximum capitalization ratio increased from 65% to 70%.
We continue to secure financing at favorable terms due to our strong operational results in addition to our investment-grade debt profile disciplined financial management and robust cash flow generation.
Non-vehicle interest expense increased to $22.1 million compared to $21.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2013 primarily due to higher debt balances.
At the end of December we had $1.1 billion of outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility and a total non-vehicle debt balance of $2.1 billion.
This was an increase of $195 million compared to September 30 2014.
The provision for income tax in the quarter was $71.6 million or 38%.
From October 1 2014 through February 2 2015 we repurchased 1.4 million shares for $69 million at an average price of $49.35 per share.
AutoNation has approximately $281 million of remaining board authorization for share repurchase.
As of February 2 there are approximately 113 million shares outstanding and again this does not include the dilutive impact of stock options.
Our leverage ratio increased to 2.3 times at the end of Q4 compared to 2.2 times at the end of Q3.
The leverage ratio was 2.2 times on a net debt basis including used floorplan availability and our covenant limit is 3.75 times.
Capital expenditures were $52 million for the quarter and $192 million for the full year 2014.
Capital expenditures are on an accrual basis and exclude operating lease buyouts and related asset sales.
Our quarter end cash balance was $75 million which combined with our additional borrowing capacity resulted in total liquidity of $770 million at the end of December.
In 2014 we continue to demonstrate the strength and flexibility of our business.
During the year we repurchased 9.4 million shares for $485 million and announced acquisition and add points with $550 million in expected future annual revenues.
Looking forward we remain committed to driving shareholder returns through strong operating execution as well as investments in strategic initiatives acquisitions and share repurchase.
Now let me turn you over to our President and Chief Operating Officer Mike Maroone.
Thank you Cheryl and good morning.
We are extremely pleased with our fourth quarter performance where we delivered revenue and gross profit growth across the business an exceptional 4.5% operating margin an all-time record quarterly and annual EPS and the 17th consecutive quarter of double-digit EPS growth.
As I continue my comments it will be on a same-store basis compared to the period a year ago.
Starting with sales.
Total gross profit for variable operations was up 10%.
On a per vehicle basis total variable gross was $3 450 per vehicle an increase of $71 or 2% driven by solid contributions from used vehicles and customer financial services.
Combined new and used same-store unit volume was up 8%.
In the quarter we retailed 80 800 new vehicles an increase of 6 700 units or 9% generating new vehicle revenue of $2.9 billion up $277 million or 11%.
New vehicle gross profit of $179 million grew by $10 million or 6%.
Gross profit per new vehicle retailed at $2 220 was off $67 or 3% compared to a year ago attributable in part to continued pressure in the import segment as well the introduction of several new premium luxury models in the quarter a year ago that commanded higher margins at launch.
Sequentially compared to Q3 2014 gross profit per new vehicle retail increased $344 due to the seasonal lift in premium luxury and achievement of several manufacturer year-end volume-based incentives which were higher in the quarter than anticipated.
Looking ahead we expect gross profit per new vehicle retail to return to normalized levels in sync with technical seasonality and subject to market conditions.
At year-end our new vehicle inventory was 54 days compared to 62 days a year ago.
Turning to used vehicles.
We had another solid performance in the quarter at $984 million.
Retail used vehicle revenue increased $75 million or 8% on the sale of 52 500 used vehicles an increase of 3 500 units or 7%.
Retail used vehicle gross profit of $88 million was up $11 million or 14% and gross profit per used vehicle retail was $1 679 an increase of $97 or 6%.
We are focused on optimizing the acquisition of used inventory as well as pricing our used vehicles to market.
We continue to see opportunity in used due to the increasing supply of used vehicles both from new vehicle trades and off-lease and feel we are well-positioned looking forward.
At December 31 our used day supply was 38 days compared to 35 a year ago aligning with our intent to build inventory for Q1.
Rounding out the variable side of the business is customer financial services where in the quarter we achieved a record gross profit per vehicle retailed at $1 444 an increase of $71 or 5%.
Total gross profit for CFS of $193 million was up $24 million or 14% compared to the period a year ago.
We continue to be extremely pleased with our performance here and remain focused on the overall customer experience continuous improvement in store level execution and growing long-term customer retention through value-added product offerings.
Next customer care which encompasses or service parts and collision business.
In the quarter customer care revenue of $713 million increased by an impressive 10% or $65 million and customer care gross profit of $298 million grew 8% or $23 million.
Expanding on gross.
Warranty gross increased 24% supported by continued strong retail activity which represented just over 5% of our total customer care gross.
Customer pay gross grew 3% in the quarter and accounted for nearly 40% of the total customer care gross.
This also marked our 18th consecutive quarterly increase in customer pay gross as we continue to focus on growing our customer pay business while ensuring we address recall for our customers.
And finally collision gross was up 11% in the quarter.
I will note that looking ahead we maintain our outlook that customer care gross comps will be in the mid-single-digit range as we previously discussed absent elevated recall activity.
In closing I would like to thank our 24 000 associates for their contributions to an outstanding quarter and year as well as their commitment to delivering a peerless customer experience.
As was announced on January 15 I will be retiring from AutoNation on April 1.
As that transition begins I will share that it's been a privilege to serve the company for the past 18 years.
I am proud of our accomplishments and confident about the company's succession plan including Bill Berman taking on the Chief Operating Officer position.
I am very optimistic about the future of AutoNation where my family remains significant shareholders.
With that I will turn the call over to Jon Ferrando.
Thanks Mike and thank you for your leadership and partnership over the last 18 years.
We completed two acquisitions since year-end Mercedes-Benz of Reno and Nevada and a Volkswagen store in the Atlanta market that will operate as AutoNation Volkswagen Mall of Georgia.
In 2014 these stores collectively generated approximately $120 million in revenue and sold approximately 3 400 new and used retailed units.
Both franchises are located in attractive auto retail locations and facilities.
We are excited about adding our 21st Mercedes-Benz franchise to the AutoNation family.
It's a great way to enter Reno Lake Tahoe an attractive auto retail market with good demographics.
As of today our store portfolio numbers 284 franchises and 234 stores in 15 states representing 34 manufacture brands.
Looking forward we will continue our strategy of pursuing acquisitions and add points that enhance brand representation within our auto retail markets as well as markets that can be supported by our existing management infrastructure.
We will continue to be selective and prudent with our capital with a focus on investing to produce strong returns and long-term shareholder value.
I will now turn it back to Mike Jackson.
Thank you Jon Like I like to personally say thank you for being my partner for the last 18 years.
Thank you for your dedication for the last 18 years to AutoNation.
We had our strongest year ever.
We set said all time record in 2014.
It is a great final chapter.
Thank you for having succession plan that well positions bill Berman and the entire operations team to continue their march of providing a peerless customer experience.
Mike after 60 quarter together I want to thank you on behalf of myself AutoNation's 24 000 associates for your 18 years of contribution and dedication to our fine company and we wish you nothing but success in your future endeavors.
With that though you need to remain and answer some questions here.
We throw the floor open.
Are there any questions for us today? [Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from James Albertine with Stifel.
You may ask your question.
Great thanks and congratulations on a great quarter and let me add sorry to see you go Mike but you have done a great job and we wish you the best and look forward to working with Bill in the future.
Mike Jackson if I may on a higher level just in terms of how important do you think consolidation is to the trajectory of AutoNation going forward? And quite frankly if you can opine on some of the bigger acquisitions that have been announced recently among sort of the outsiders if you will? So with Berkshire entering the fray there's some conversation now around Soros Fund Management looking at an acquisition in the dealer space as well.
So what does that say about the bigger picture dealer outlook long term? What does it do for purchase multiples? And why do you think that Buffett at least targeted a private group versus a public group? Thanks.
Well I certainly welcome sophisticated astute investors such as Warren Buffett and George Soros to auto retail.
It's not a new experience for the auto industry.
It's particularly not for AutoNation.
I would observe that Eddie Lampert invested in us 15 years ago and owns 20% of the company today and Bill Gates through his fund Cascade and Michael Larson have been with us for over a decade and owns 15% of the company.
So having astute sophisticated long-term investors is not new to us and I welcome more to auto retail.
I think it's absolutely a validation of the attractiveness and the sustainability of auto retail.
Now as far as the pace of consolidation I see no change.
There will be a gradual evolutionary consolidation into larger entity's hand whether they are public or private.
If I look at it right now the publics are at 7% to 8% and if I take the top 100 retailers in America it's around 20%.
And I go back a decade ago that was made 15%.
And why is the consolidation gradual and evolutionary? It is because you need willing sellers to come to in a reasonable price a fair price as to what to acquire the business for.
There's a lot of emotion invested in independent entrepreneurial family businesses that in many cases have existed for over a generation.
And if you try to preemptively buy that strictly on price the only way you can get that deal done is to dramatically overpay.
And certainly industry for over a decade has shown an understanding of this fact and a discipline around price and certainly they knew entity that you called out have all built their enterprise based on paying a fair value price not overpay.
So I don't think there's any change there.
I think it will be a gradual evolution.
I think tat having larger players in the future is inevitable that as private entrepreneurs build up bigger entities you will need more financial muscle and a bigger balance sheet to go to the next level of consolidation.
But again it will be a gradual evolution.
Now whether those entities are public or private I think that is a separate story.
The big story is the top 100 is approaching 20%.
And where that line gets drawn between public and private we will move over time.
As far as why Warren Buffett buys what he buys that's a question you should address to Mr.
Buffett.
I met him years ago at Bill Gates' home.
He asked me questions about auto retail and the auto industry.
So I am not surprised that he is in the space but as to why Warren finally does what he does is far beyond my pay grade.
And I can't give any insight there.
Understood.
Still waiting for a call back there actually.
Okay.
Good luck.
I didn't even place the call.
So there you go.
If I may ask a quick follow-up though just given your size and how well you have done recently and particularly in January results there is some consternation out there at least I am sensing as it relates to the credit market whether it's the risk of rising rates or what have you? I just want to know from your experiences what would be the first indicator or concern the metric that you would be focused on the most? Is it residual values on the used side? Is there something out there that you are looking for that would make you incrementally negative? Because it doesn't sound like the credit market has tightened up? It sounds like it's just as available and supportive of a strong SAAR in 2015 at least early 2015.
Here is how I look at the credit market and what I watch for.
The American consumer has approximately $12 trillion of all forms of debt outstanding of which auto loans are less than $1 trillion let's say $900 billion with the lowest default rate of any form of credit.
Lower than mortgages credit card student loans whatever form of credit you want to point to.
People pay their car loans.
And by the way that $900 billion is secured.
It's not unsecured like credit cards or student loans.
It's secured.
And the industry has never bought into the folly that a car is an appreciating asset like the financial service industry said about houses that they would always go up.
No the mindset of lending in automotive is it is a depreciating asset.
It always goes down.
And structure the loan accordingly.
So I watch the lending.
Now there is some risk on residuals in leasing particularly around the price of gasoline because as the price of gasoline moves with a lot of volatility it really affects the resale value of whatever is coming back into that market.
So if you have very high gasoline prices and your Prius' are coming off-lease you are going to do very well.
If you have very low gasoline prices and you have trucks coming off-lease you are going to do very well.
So that's the only wild card that lenders need to watch for.
As far as subprime for us as a company when we retail 100 vehicles eight of them are financed by subprime loans.
So it's a small part of the business for us at our level.
That's not to say you can't find further out on the price spectrum a subprime business that is different.
But for AutoNation that's not an issue.
As far as the overall interest rates we expect gradual increases to start in 2015.
We are thinking like 50 basis points in the course of the year and a bit more in 2016.
But all that looks very manageable.
So as far as 2015 is concerned I think the safest prediction I have ever made about industry unit volume breaking through $17 million or being above $17 million is one of the lowest risk predictions I have ever made.
$17 million will happen in 2015.
We are very confident about that and if I look at the pent-up demand economy moving at a better rate there will be good years after that.
Too soon to say what the actual number will be.
Extremely helpful as always.
Thanks again and good luck in the next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from John Murphy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi John.
How are you today? Good morning guys.
I am doing well and congratulations Mike Maroone.
It's really been a pleasure and you have obviously done a great job.
I do have one question for you though specifically.
As you depart will you be carrying a bat phone that you can be consulted on very quickly if need be? I know you have got great succession planning but will you still be available? I consider myself a friend of the company.
I will always be supportive of the company and also be available to them.
Thank you John.
Okay great.
Second question as we look at the consolidation of the dealership base it can happen in many ways and what we have seen is like you said the top 100 groups becoming a greater percentage of the total but we also saw a massive reduction in dealerships from 2008 to where we are right now.
As we think forward about this consolidation Mike is it possible that this happens without big acquisitions? Meaning with your digital strategy and your focus on trying to expand your footprint and your reach is there the potential to really consolidate sales without making big acquisitions as long as you have a presence in a market? Well that principle has actually John guided our acquisition strategy for the last decade that digital is a game changer brick-and-mortar still is valid and relevant therefore for fulfillment and customer care base you need all the brands in a given market to really make it work.
It simply costs too much to ship product from market to market.
And to really control the entire experience and bridge the great gap that exists you need to control it from end-to-end.
You need to own the store.
Literally own the store.
Not have a relationship with the store own the store so you can dictate the processes and the technology in the store and you need to control and own the website.
That's what we are pursuing as a totality.
Now whether that leads to more rapid consolidation benefit that's bigger than I would predict.
As far as it being a significant competitive advantage absolutely.
Okay and then a second question.
If we think about AutoNation Express just being launched in December a lot of digital spending going on a lot of spending on national branding exercise has there been any benefit from that to-date in your results? Or is that largely still in the investment process and we will see benefits further down the line? It's definitely in the investment process John.
Its benefits are down the road.
Although I think you know branding AutoNation that was part of this.
That's been a tremendous benefit to our associates after two years to attract talent retain talent.
As far as awareness in the marketplace of the name AutoNation within our markets Mike you might have exact numbers.
It has already surpassed our legacy names think about that.
Some legacy names we have been pounding on for 100 years and in two years the name AutoNation has surpassed it in awareness in consideration.
The next piece of the puzzle is transactional websites and traffic to our websites.
Traffic to our website is growing at double-digit significant double-digit rates.
Our own websites now generate more business than all the third parties combined.
So there is significant progress.
But if I look at the level of investment relative to those factors I would say we are still very much in investment period.
And I would say that will certainly be for all of 2015.
As far as my conviction are we on the right course or not? I am 100% convinced.
100% convinced that the strategy we are pursuing over time will be a sustainable competitive advantage for AutoNation which is one of the hardest things to do in business.
Mike you have any marketing awareness numbers for us? No but I think you are correct.
I don't have a number in my head but you are correct in saying that every one of our former local market names has been surpassed by the AutoNation.
There is not one that stands taller.
And that's in a very short period of time.
So think about that John.
In two years on the AutoNation brand we have surpassed the legacy names some of which were 100 years old.
Yes.
It's very impressive.
But if we just think about this in totality though it sounds like there's still a little bit of heavy sledding through 2015 but you will reach a tipping point as we go from 2015 to 2016 where the investment fades and the benefits come in or the benefits at least usurp and outweigh the ongoing investment.
Yes.
We are not doing so badly.
In the meantime if you look at the fourth quarter.
My first guess yes.
So we can afford to be an investment phase and the internal thinking is that it will be gradual.
It's not an inflection point where you flip the switch and you go a-ha we are checkmate on everybody.
I am really thinking in a five-year block from today.
So imagine this has been underway for seven years.
We are now implementing in the marketplace.
The initial reaction is fantastic.
If I look out five years from now I am convinced we will be looking back on this investment phase and say wow that was great money that we invested.
I am convinced of it.
But we have to go through an investment phase.
And I should be clear it's not cheap.
I have been very straightforward.
It's over $100 million.
Well over $100 million.
If you combine what we are investing in the brand and you combine what we are investing in technology to make our website attractive and transactional plus the processes that have to change in the store.
But this total integrated technology solution where a customer can seamlessly move back and forth between a online experience and in-store experience.
We are convinced is the Holy Grail for automotive retail.
When you combine that with the brand where you control and own your own website and you have a fulfillment footprint with a customer care to cover your fixed costs.
This is a winning combination.
Seems like you are going to grab a lot of market share over time.
Let me just say on that John.
So the position I want to be in is to decide whether I am going for share or margin.
I want to control the margins in the future.
If you become over dependent on third party lead providers you will lose control of your margin.
So this is as much about having control of our future margins which I am absolutely convinced we will have much more say over or I can do the calculation and say we go for share or its a combinations of both.
But that's the position you want to be in.
Yes.
It's very impressive.
Then just two last very specific questions.
Parts and service obviously came in pretty strong.
You guys are still talking about mid-single digits.
It seems from like the recall activity that particularly GM is calling for this year versus last year on cash at least half is coming in in 2015.
So it means that the recall that was at the earliest curve of this wave is only half done.
It seems like you will get as much recall activity in 2015 as in 2014 if not more and the zero to five year old car fleet continues to grow.
So I am just curious why you think there might be that slowdown in parts and service? Or that's just a reasonably conservative planning assumption That's reasonably conservative.
That's our base plan plus exceptional.
That's a way to think about it.
And it's very hard to predict exactly what the level of recall work that will be done particular on recall on vehicles this old whether people will really bring them in or not.
So mid-single digits is without the recalls.
That's just what we are going to do with the business.
And then you put the recall on top of it if you can figure out how much is actually going to be done.
Good for you.
On the Takata recall we estimate the industry has completed about 10% of that.
And on the ignition switch it's about 50% complete.
Now the question is on vehicles that old will that continue in 2015? We just don't know the answer.
Yes.
It's tough to call.
And then just lastly specifically on used vehicle pricing.
I mean there is this constant consternation that pricing is going to come down.
The Manheim Index is holding up reasonably well.
You and the other public groups as well as CarMax continue to post positive average transaction prices in your used vehicle business.
I know there's some mix that's going on here but it seems like the reality of what's happening in the market is still very strong and as we get miles driven growing and the supply of vehicles is still relatively constrained we could be in an environment where used vehicle pricing holds up better than people are generally perceiving.
I am just trying to understand what the disconnect is between this consensus view that used vehicle pricing is coming under pressure but it's actually really not? And I am just trying to understand what you think is going on there.
Well if we look at the chart of the vehicle return rate it definitely increases in 2015.
It hasn't happened yet but it will in 2015 and what that does to valuations we will adjust for it.
But here is my point John.
Let's say used values come down because there is more availability.
Let me see if I have that straight.
My acquisition cost has gone down and I have more of them to buy.
If I look at our used car capabilities that we have developed that makes me even more optimistic about the used car business.
I think we are really at a point where we can succeed either way.
Now could there be an adjustment period if it moves with a lot of volatility quickly.
Well of course.
There could be a quarter where that happens.
But then you are on new level.
And I have more margin space between used cars and new cars.
So we are optimistic about the used car business and we think whatever's coming there won't be extreme volatility to it.
I think that's the most important point and we will be able to adjust to whatever the new circumstances are.
But you well could be proven right that the demand for used cars is such that even with improved supply and there will be improved supply in 2015 prices don't move much.
We will have to wait and see.
We will manage it either way.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much and really fantastic execution guys.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Patrick Archambault with Goldman Sachs.
You may ask your question.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Congrats on a great result.
I wanted to just follow-up actually first on the SG&amp;A leverage piece.
It does indeed look like based on the fourth quarter as you pointed out not doing too badly in terms of the fixed cost absorption despite the fact that you have got some investments that are ongoing here.
So as we look through 2015 where there's still some investment to go is there still an ability to see improved leverage in spite of this like you saw in 2014? Yes.
Pat this is Cheryl.
We are really focused on cost discipline.
So you look at the fourth quarter with a seasonally strong premium luxury and customer care you get some benefits from that on the gross side.
If you look at the full year we were just under 70%.
And that's where we continue to target.
So we think as we look into 2015 and forward the goal is still to continue being under 70% despite that continued investment in digital.
There's some different levers to pull there and growth will dictate some of that but that still remains a goal.
We know that there is leverage there to be had.
I think fourth quarter seasonally tends to be very strong.
You do get some seasonality in SG&amp;A but certainly remain focused on staying below 70%.
And just on that in terms of the performance is it just kind of pure operating leverage that is on your ongoing business that's offsetting the incremental costs? Or are there other savings that are still forthcoming? You mentioned for instance less reliance on lead generation companies which I know are expensive as maybe just an example.
If I look at our cost for third-quarter lead providers my goal is to invest that money in the AutoNation brand rather than third party lead providers.
So we pay third party lead providers X amount of money and it generates 14% of our business today.
I would like to take X amount of money and spend it on the AutoNation brand and whether that customer comes to us on the telephone driving in or through our websites it really doesn't matter to me.
But my view is every time I spend a dollar on the AutoNation brand it's a double win.
I sell a car today and I build awareness for the future.
Whereas when I spend money with third party lead providers yes I get to sell a car today but they take that money and build their brand and get the future sale.
And maybe I get a shot at that maybe I don't and most likely I have to compete on price to get the next one.
So this is over time.
When we successfully execute this shift of resources from third party lead providers to AutoNation I think over time it makes the company stronger and stronger.
But my idea is not that I can simply take that money and spend it with lead providers and not spend it any more.
I don't see that.
I think it's reallocated to AutoNation marketing.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And one last one from me just on the parts and service I think getting back to maybe John's question.
I understand how you guys are thinking about it but more specific to the cadence of it.
It does seem right based on actually what you provided there 40% completion on ignition 10% on the Takata and now obviously we have TRW's issue.
It does seem that at least in the first part of the year right there's something to sustain pretty high comps especially seeing the comps in the beginning of last year weren't as tough.
So is there one of these things where we can expect similar performance maybe in the first half and barring anything unique kind of slows down in the second? Well I would say that's for you.
You figure it out.
Directionally we have given you a very clear picture of how we think about it.
I don't see anything I would take exception with in your assumptions.
But we just don't know on these old vehicles how people are going to react.
That's all I am pointing out.
So we have given you the number that we feel good about.
We are going to grow customer care mid-single digits plus whatever exceptional recall activity comes out.
And the where and when do your best.
All right.
We will figure it out from our end.
All right thank you very much for the responses.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Rick Nelson with Stephens.
You may ask your question.
Thanks and my congrats to Mike Maroone as well.
It's been a great run Mike.
Thanks for all the help over the years.
Thank you.
I would like to ask you about what appears to be market share gains in the fourth quarter on the new car side if you could comment there? And whether you think this branding in digital spend is really starting to kick in? Well I think our share is stable to plus Mike.
Is that how I would describe it there? It's a hard thing to pin down exactly though I would say it's probably on the plus side.
I thin it is plus and we have got benefit from our mix as well and our geography.
So it's been good.
And that strength in January unit sales appeared to have accelerated.
Is that just easier compares with the weather? Or is it the underlying business? Yes.
If you go back to a year ago Rick I was very clear that I thought January and February last year were nominally not a true indication of the market and thought we would end up at 16.5% and we ended up at 16.5%.
So something definitely whether it was severe winter weather or some other economic block it was going in the first quarter last year that was temporary.
What that means from a comp point of view is January and February are easy comps.
I think our sales last January were flat 2014 versus 2013.
So think about that.
No increase whatsoever.
So that's a very easy comp.
So you can't take January now and extrapolate it for the full year.
But to be off to such a good start for the year with everything else as I have described as a backdrop means our forecast of the industry of the $17 million looks pretty clear.
Yes.
Thank you for that.
And finally if I could ask you about Texas.
If you are seeing any change there versus the rest of the chain? We have seen no change in Texas yet.
No change in fourth quarter.
No change in January.
But the anecdotal stories of what's going on in Houston and other parts of Texas would lead one to believe that most likely Texas will have to make some sort of adjustment to this new price of petroleum and we are watching for it but it hasn't happened yet.
It's a reasonable expectation.
Yes.
That does sound reasonable.
Thanks a lot and good luck.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Ravi Shanker with Morgan Stanley.
You may ask your question.
Good morning everyone.
This is Paresh Jain in for Ravi.
Mike let me first congratulate you on a successful career on behalf of the entire Morgan Stanley team here and thank you for your help over the years.
A couple of questions just following up on Rick's question on Texas and if I could making it more generic for all oil states.
It was obviously very strong volume quarter for you but have there been any early signs of lenders in these oil states becoming less aggressive at lending terms which may have impacted sales? This is Mike Maroone.
We haven't seen any pull back from the lenders and I think Mike's already said the business is tracking quite well.
Our South Texas business which is right in the energy corridor performed very well in the fourth quarter and we have not seen of disruption yet either on the lender's side or on the volume side.
Thanks and just one quick follow-up on the SmartChoice program.
Any early indications of impact on either share gross profit or even transaction times in those 30 stores? It's very early.
We are just in South Florida and it's less than a month old.
So too soon to say.
The anecdotal reaction of the stores and the consumers is extremely positive.
Those that have used it absolutely love it.
Their recommendation on repeat referral business is off the chart.
But that's just an initial indicator and it's really too soon to draw any conclusions from that.
No that's good to know and lastly one housekeeping.
Parts and services obviously the other customer care business rather posted strong double-digit growth margins kind of declined year-on-year.
Any color on what's driving that year-on-year decline? It's Mike Maroone.
First let me point out that our total margin for the whole company was stable at 15.5%.
We did see some small pressure on the customer care margin but it's really about a change we made on how calculated our reconditioning rates and some of that moved to used vehicle margin.
When we look at the core service business of customer pay and warranty our margins were actually up slightly.
So the margins that are subject to the marketplace were up and the ones we control internally we made some tweaks to and created that margin compression.
But overall the total margin for the company is stable.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Colin Langan with UBS.
You may ask your question.
Great.
Thanks for taking my question and congrats on a good quarter.
Any color on can you give an update on your website strategy? Where are you? And how should we think about the IT spending directionally year over year? Is it going to accelerate? Or is it going to be about the same as this year? This is Mike Jackson.
Our investment in AutoNation Express will increase significantly in 2015 as compared to 2014.
That includes investment in the brand.
It includes investment in IT capabilities and it includes investment in the store as far as features that have to be in the store.
The IT part of that Cheryl do you have any color on that? I think when you look for total year I would say the main metrics to look at are going to be the fact that we will target below the 70%.
I think the cadence of the actual investment is going to vary quarter-by-quarter.
From a capital perspective I would say the cost are up within the aggregate but nothing I think that's not sustainable within the context of the total business.
Okay and can you frame for this year I don't know if I missed this of your full-year 7% same-store increase? What do you think recall contributed to the growth this year? Do we kind of have a base of the growth? I think it's around 30% of the growth came from recalls.
That's in the quarter.
In the quarter.
For the fourth quarter 30% of the increase in customer care growth was related to recalls.
Okay and any -- You know it's a total of 5.5% of the total customer care gross.
So it's still a relatively small fee but clearly drove the growth.
Drove some of the growth.
Okay.
Well all right.
Thank you very much for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from David Lim with Wells Fargo Securities.
You may ask your question.
Hi.
Good morning.
I just wanted to talk a little bit more about your e-commerce strategy.
It looks like you guys are putting in a lot of money.
Is this something that you may consider monetizing in the future to other dealer groups that may not be competing in your geographical areas? I really don't foresee that.
That's not in our plan.
We have created a common technology platform across the company centered out of our shared resource center in Dallas Texas.
Within that critically is our lead management system and our customer relationship management system which is proprietary called Compass and now we are building transactional capabilities on our site that have literally been several years in development to perfect how they work.
So it's quite an effort and the key to make the whole thing really compelling and different is that we control it from end-to-end.
We own the website.
We on the stores and we describe exactly how everything works from the store back to the website back and forth in real-time.
So when you talk about giving this out to someone else well if they don't have the store process to align with how we are designing everything it immediately falls apart.
It's no longer an integrated technology solution that works from end-to-end.
So we have had people approach us and ask us but I don't know hoe much benefit it would really be worth and it's not in our plan.
Got you.
The other question I have is with the advancement of all these vehicles the technology whether it be engine power-train infotainment systems et cetera do you guys eventually foresee the DIFM guys being squeezed out and more of the car park out there even outside of warranty start to flow back more into the authorized dealer base? Well if we look at the strategically what's happening here on the one hand in principle the quality of the car is significantly improved year after year.
However the complexity and sophistication of the car goes up exponentially year after year and those who have the infrastructure and the expertise to care for them as you rightly point out becomes less and less.
So if we can address the issue of why customers would leave the authorized dealer network both convenience and cost then the percentage we can retain for our customer care business is a significant opportunity.
So we think we can grow our customer care business open ended.
The only question is the rate of growth.
Got you.
So I mean in theory Mike if these become like if we look at electric vehicles OEM electric vehicles or hybrid vehicles or as you said the exponential improvement in technological complexity in theory the requirement of capital is going to be really be limited to you guys as well as some of the bigger groups.
The local mom-and-pop shops may not have the capital to actually compete on that level.
Would that be a fair commentary for where it is going forward? And given that I mean wouldn't that give you a little bit more optimism of maybe even touching double-digit same store sales growth on a more consistent basis way out in the future? Thank you.
Yes.
Way out in the future.
So I think I am not to go beyond the statement that we can grow our customer care business open ended.
The only question is the rate of growth.
I will give you an update on the rate of growth year-by-year but I am not putting in a stake in the ground today for let's say 2022.
Got you.
Thank you so much.
In principle you have a very valid point.
I have long thought that believed that and I think that's how it's playing out in the marketplace.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brett Hoselton with KeyBanc.
You may ask your question.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Maroone Mike congratulations.
Great career thus far and you have done the Maroone family name proud in the industry.
So congratulations.
Thank you very much.
I appreciate that.
Berman you have big shoes to fill my friend.
So good luck.
I wanted to ask you on the digital expense just very simply how do we think about the spending going forward? Do you see a step-up in your spending plans into 2015 and into 2016? Or are you already at a level where you are just going to continue at the same pace? Things are going so well we are stepping up the investment in 2015.
If I go back and look at it remember when we launched the AutoNation brand we stepped up investment in that and said okay then we will see how it goes and we will see what the next step was.
Well quite frankly it went so well that we stepped up investment in 2014.
We accelerated the plan in 2014 both investing in the brand and investing in digital technology.
Our results in 2014 are so good we are stepping up the investment in 2015 both in branding and in digital.
And we still have gateways where we can slow down if we get reactions that would say we didn't get it all right but so far everything is green lights.
And I am not shooting for a point and a half moment where you can then say look at this number look at this number it all worked out but we are convinced we are on the right track.
And so we are stepping up investment in 2015.
And Brett I would just add that it really becomes part of AutoNation's ongoing operating costs over time.
So unlike rebranding which was a discrete launch event digital will get incorporated and become part of AutoNation's ongoing operating costs over time as we switch from a traditional brick-and-mortar only strategy into more of an omnichannel and digital web strategy.
Okay.
Thank you and then switching gears.
Just looking at your used vehicle same-store sales the cadence the beginning of this year or 2014 kind of flat.
In the back half of the year you pushed up into that 6% to 7% range.
What is it that's driving the improvement? I don't see easier comps driving the improvement.
It seems as though either maybe increased supply or maybe some internal changes at AutoNation.
What is it that is driving that improvement towards the back half of 2014? I answered that question on the call of the second quarter of 2014 where I clearly said that we were understocked for various operating reasons in the first half of the year and we felt that we had taken measures in the second quarter to address it.
And I was very optimistic about used car sales for the second half of the year.
And Mike how did we do? That's exactly as we have had a couple of very strong quarters back-to-back where we had volume increases and margin expansion.
I think it's our third straight quarter of really nice market expansion.
The team has worked really hard.
We have got an excellent used car team.
They are working really hard on pricing working really hard on getting the right product.
The wind is there from an off-lease perspective.
You get 23% improvement in 2014 19% improvement in 2015 and vehicles coming off-lease.
So supply is a big deal but I think the execution by our operating team from coast-to-coast really was a big driver as well.
And then if I could just one final conceptual question for you Mike Jackson.
Let's see Tesla.
Mr.
Elon he would kind of suggest that at some point in time we would be able to seemingly disaggregate the franchised auto dealer let's say between the OEM and the customer let's say possibly by servicing the cars over the Internet so on and so forth.
That's just kind of conceptually it seems like what he's driving towards or suggesting might happen to some degree.
I guess my thought is how do you feel about that relative to your business model? I think I don't see that as it as an issue for us at all.
We are investing $150 million $200 million per year in just bricks-and-mortar not counting then the investment in digital and a huge percentage of that is for customer care to expand our capacities there.
And as I just said I think that business grows open-ended.
With Tesla well you know I observed where his service centers are and I think he's going to have to address it at some point.
The idea that these cars don't need to go anywhere to do anything I don't buy into.
You can only do so much over the Internet with these vehicles and then you have got to have experts hands-on and people want to be able to do that in a convenient friendly way.
So as it's owner base gets larger and as he wants bigger volume I think he is going to need a different strategy.
But that's just my opinion and for him to figure out.
But as far as what he's doing is a complete revolution revolution auto retail that's going to change everything I don't buy into that at all.
Well thank you very much and a great quarter.
Congratulations.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from David Whiston with MorningStar.
You may ask your question.
Good morning.
Just two questions.
First looking at the press release at your operating profit contribution by segment it looks like there was a really nice uptick in the domestic contribution at the expense of the other two segments.
Yet on the same page I am seeing the Ford new retail unit volume was down.
So can you just flesh out a bit what happened on the domestic side that was positive to drive growth there? The drop in gasoline prices are a huge plus for the domestic business.
The American consumers have trucks on their mind.
I assure you when the industry figures are finalized later today I expect trucks to be over 55% of the mix.
And they were trending towards 45% of the mix year-and-a-half two years ago.
And let's face it trucks are strength of the domestic manufacturers.
So that's a huge plus for them.
Ford at this moment is caught in this huge changeover of the number one selling vehicle in America for the last 36 years the Ford F-150.
One plant is down still completely and the other plant is doing nicely.
But they are literally in the midst of this changeover and if I look at that production schedules I don't think we will take full availability on the F-150 till May.
So May.
Their figures are going and our Ford figures are going to be impacted by that.
The good news is of the F-150s that we receive we have customers waiting in line for them.
They come in and go right out.
There's no issues about the aluminum.
They love the way it drives.
They love the towing capacity.
They love the vehicle dynamics.
So it's all good but this is probably one of the biggest production changeovers ever attempted in industrial history.
Ford's well in the way to executing it but it's going to be May until we have full availability of this vehicle.
Okay and last question is on the AutoNation Express initiative.
Once down the road all the investment is done and you are at full operation across all your stores nationwide do you plan to do an extremely extensive advertising campaign at really a national level to get the word out that shopping at AutoNation is not like going to other dealers? We have already started a campaign in South Florida on the first capability of AutoNation Express.
It's up and running.
And as we move to other markets we will begin marketing AutoNation Express.
And as the capabilities expand we will begin to advertise the new features that are available to consumers.
And again here's how the way to think about it.
I am going to take all that money we are spending with third party lead providers and shift it over to advertising AutoNation and AutoNation Express.
And this over time gives us a much stronger position in the marketplace.
That's the power of what's behind this idea this concept this strategy.
And I am very much optimistic that it will succeed.
But to your point it's already up and running.
We are already advertising in our market South Florida.
We can put the commercials up on our website so that you could go there and see them.
Now we run the campaign for the markets that we are in with the capabilities as they go online.
There is not a national ad idea.
We would need a national footprint.
So it's very much focused for the markets that we are in.
And as we move into new markets then of course we would roll it into new markets.
Okay.
So something really extreme like a Super Bowl ad down the road is probably not on the table? Super Bowl ad is not on the table.
Okay.
Again I have to make the point.
We think bricks and mortar is extremely relevant.
What happens within the bricks and mortars is changing dramatically.
And so we only own brick and mortar in our footprint.
And so it's an integrated solution between owning the entire experience from the website right through the process in the store.
That's our concept.
And it's far in the future that AutoNation will be doing a AutoNation ad.
I am not even going to speculate on a date.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you everyone for joining us today.
This concludes today's conference.
We thank you all for joining.
Welcome to AutoNation's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I will turn the call over to Andrew Wamser Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations for AutoNation.
Good morning and welcome to AutoNation's first quarter 2015 conference call and webcast.
Leading our call today will be Mike Jackson Chairman CEO and President; Cheryl Scully CFO; Bill Berman COO; and Jon Ferrando EVP responsible for M&amp;A.
Following their remarks we will open up the call for questions.
Robert Quartaro and I will also be available by phone following the call to address any additional questions that you may have.
Before we begin let me read our brief statement regarding forward-looking comments.
Certain statements and information on this call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve risks which may cause the actual results or performance to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Additional discussions of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are contained in our press release issued earlier today and our SEC filings including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K.
Certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules will be discussed on this call.
Reconciliations are provided in our press release and on our website located at investors.autonation.com.
And now I will turn the call over to AutoNation's Chairman CEO and President Mike Jackson.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we reported record first quarter earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.97 a 29% increase as compared to adjusted EPS from continuing operations of $0.75 for the same period ended prior year.
This is our 18th consecutive quarter of double-digit year-over-year growth and EPS from continuing operations.
First quarter 2015 revenue totaled $4.9 billion compared to $4.4 billion in the year ago period an increase of 13% driven by stronger performance in all of our business sectors.
In the first quarter AutoNation's retail new vehicle unit sales increased 10% or 9% on a same-store basis.
AutoNation continued reforms during this recovery with an optimal brand and market mix and a disciplined cost structure.
We continue to have solid results across all our business sectors.
I’ll now turn the call over to Chief Financial Officer Cheryl Scully.
Thank you Mike and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
For the first quarter we reported net income from continuing operations of $112 million or $0.97 per share versus adjusted net income of $91 million or $0.75 per share during the first quarter of 2014 a 29% improvement on a per-share basis.
There were no adjustments to net income in the first quarter of 2015.
Adjustments to net income in prior periods are included in the reconciliations provided in our press release.
In the first quarter revenue increased $581 million or 13% compared to the prior year and gross profit improved $93 million or 13%.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross profit was 69.7% for the quarter which represents a 110 basis points decrease compared to the year ago period.
Net new vehicle floorplan was a benefit of $14.2 million an increase of $2.9 million from the first quarter of 2014 primarily due to higher floorplan assistance which increased due to higher new vehicle sales.
Floorplan debt decreased sequentially approximately $95 million during the first quarter to $3 billion at quarter-end primarily due to increased -- decreased borrowings on our used vehicle floorplan facilities.
Non-vehicle interest expense decreased slightly to $21.4 million compared to $21.6 million in the first quarter of 2014 primarily due to improved pricing from our credit facility refinancing that was completed in December of 2014.
At the end of March we had $1 billion of outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility and a total non-vehicle debt balance of $2.1 billion.
This was a decrease of $73 million compared to December 31 2014.
The provision for income tax in the quarter was $69.8 million or 38.5%.
From January 1 through April 28 2015 we repurchased 150 000 shares for $9 million at an average price of $60.46 per share.
AutoNation has approximately $272 million of remaining Board authorization for share repurchase.
As of April 28 there were approximately 114 million shares outstanding.
This does not include the dilutive impact of stock options.
Our leverage ratio decreased to 2.2 times at the end of Q1 as compared to 2.3 times at the end of Q4.
The leverage ratio was 2.0 times on a net debt basis and this includes used floor plan availability and our covenant limit is 3.75 times.
Capital expenditures were $63 million for the quarter.
Capital expenditures are on an accrual basis excluding operating lease buyouts and related asset sales.
Our quarter end cash balance was $74 million which combined with our additional borrowing capacity resulted in total liquidity of $900 million at the end of March.
The finance team remains committed to supporting our operational partners with the unified focus on driving long-term shareholder value.
Now let me turn you over to our Chief Operating Officer Bill Berman.
Thank you Cheryl and good morning.
AutoNation posted stellar first quarter results with double-digit growth in revenue and gross profit across all business sectors.
This marked our 18th consecutive quarter of double-digit EPS growth.
Going forward my comments will be on a same-store basis and compared to the period a year ago unless noted otherwise.
Total gross profit for variable operations was $459 million up 12%.
Total variable growth was $3 406 on a per vehicle retail basis an increase of $67 or 2%.
New and used same-store sale unit volume was up 10%.
New vehicle revenue for the quarter was $2.7 billion an increase of $277 million or 11%.
We retailed 76 900 units an increase of 9%.
New vehicle gross profit was $2 005 on a per vehicle retail basis off slightly due to continued pressure in import segment as well as growth in volume of entry level premium luxury models.
For the quarter used vehicle retail revenue was $1.1 billion an increase of $121 million or 13%.
Used vehicles retail were $57 400 up 11%.
Used vehicle gross profit was $1 738 on a per vehicle retail basis a decrease of $42 or 2%.
As you might remember in Q1 2014 we focused on maximizing margins due to our tight inventory supply.
We are well positioned with our used inventory for the second quarter.
We increased our total story used units by 26% compared to last year and our current total story used inventory levels at 34 days.
Customer financial services gross profit set an all-time record of $1 515 on a per vehicle retail basis and increased $114 or 8%.
Approximately two-third of our growth profit for vehicle retail was related to customer financial service products and approximately one-third was related to finance.
Total gross profit for customer financial services of $203 million was up $32 million or 19% compared to the period year ago.
We continue to see opportunity in customer financial services as we grow our store level execution and offer products that build customer value and loyalty.
In the quarter customer care revenue was $723 million an increase of $56 million or 8%.
We set an all-time record high in customer care gross profit of $310 million an increase of $26 million or 9%.
Customer pay gross was $124 million or 4%.
This was our 19th consecutive quarterly increase in customer pay gross.
Warranty growth was $60 million up 19%.
Collision growth was $29 million up 11%.
Excluding the impact of elevated recalls we continue to expect mid single digit growth in customer care.
I’d like to thank all 24 500 associates for a job well done this quarter.
As an organization we remain focused on driving sales driving service and building the AutoNation brand.
I’ll turn the call over to Jon Ferrando.
Thank you Bill.
We're excited to announce that in April we completed two acquisitions that we signed in the first quarter including Mercedes-Benz store located in San Jose California.
This represents our 22nd Mercedes-Benz franchise and our 21st franchise in Northern California.
We also acquired a Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram store in Valencia California our 32nd franchise in Southern California.
The Chrysler store will be an excellent addition to our business in the Valencia Auto mall where we offer nine brands.
Auto Nation has also signed an agreement to acquire a Jaguar Land Rover and Volvo store in our Spokane Washington market.
This will give us 25 franchises in the State of Washington.
As previously announced during the quarter we completed the acquisition of a Mercedes-Benz store in Reno Nevada and a Volkswagen store in Atlanta.
The combined annual revenue for our five acquisitions since the beginning of 2015 including the Spokane acquisition which we expect to complete in early May is approximately $320 million.
As of today our store portfolio numbers 290 franchises and 235 stores in 15 states representing 34 manufactured brands.
Looking forward we will continue to actively pursue acquisitions and new store opportunities with a focus on enhancing brand representation within our auto retail markets as well as markets that can be supportive by our existing management infrastructure.
As for M&amp;A market conditions there is a solid pipeline of potential opportunities in the marketplace.
While we've not seen a material increase in competition for deals we've seen an uptake in sellers testing the market with unrealistic expectations.
We will continue to be selective and prudent with our capital with a focus on investing to produce stronger terms and long-term shareholder value.
I'll now turn back to Mike Jackson.
Thanks John.
We believe the Auto industry is healthy.
We still expect the industry and new vehicle sales to be above $70 million units and with that we will take your questions.
Operator can you please open the line for questions? [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Mr.
Patrick Archambault your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
One question I wanted to ask is just you had this Chrysler news that came out where they were talking about raising invoice prices on their dealers and without raising MSRP and I wanted to get your view on whether A that was being accurately portrayed and B whether that even matters? Because I feel like you guys kind of set on your own prices and potentially if the vehicles are as hot as they are maybe there’s an ability to really offset the increased less price.
So just some thoughts on that? This is Mike Jackson.
I believe the reporting is accurate but more and your B that you have to look at the totality of the relationship.
The fact of the matter is our Chrysler business is booming.
We have high throughput through our stores.
It’s been a phenomenal recovery led by Sergio and his entire team and the stores are very profitable with profitability growing.
So how they run their marketing scheme and the various things it’s a partnership with them and in principle as long as it’s a win-win relationship and we certainly believe with Chrysler it is the details are not so much of a concern.
Okay.
That’s helpful and maybe if I can squeeze in an obligatory CFPB question I suppose we’re on the cusp of getting the new rules published where they officially takeover in an regulation on non-bank financials.
There’s been obviously a lot of talk within CFPB documentation about markups and some have speculated that they may try to convenience industry participants to go after a sort of a flat fee.
A number of numbers have been thrown out but I mean -- this is just discussion.
Wanted to just see where are you guys were coming out on that and what you thought -- how you thought this might end up? Again this is Mike Jackson.
Our portfolio has been tested 18 000 times the time exaggeration 18 000 times and a very minuscule nominal number of situations we recall to be looked at and when you at them in details there’s not much there.
So I can certainly speak for our portfolio that there is no sign of despaired impact let along discrimination.
As far as the CFPB's position for flat that’s been their position from day one and so far the banking industry has said that’s not where they want to go because the system in principle is working very effectively for all the constituents.
It’s working for the consumer it’s working for all the protecting classes it’s working for the bank and it’s working for the retailers.
So it’s a very efficient effective system.
So what’s finally going to happen I don’t know but I don’t sense anything impending that’s going to turn the world upside down.
Okay.
Terrific.
Well thanks a lot for the perspective.
Thank you.
And our next question is Mr.
Rick Nelson of Stephens.
Your line is open.
Hello good morning.
Good morning Rick.
Can I ask you about the reach in areas where you saw strengths and maybe some weakness from commentary on tax credits would be helpful? Rick could you repeat the question? The regional carriers have strength and weakness in Texas in particular if you can make some comments what you're seeing? This is Bill Berman what we’re seeing is strong and city growth in California and Florida and we’ve seen virtually no impact in Texas with a decrease in oil prices.
Overall all of our markets are performing very strong.
Great.
Thanks.
Also how well segment performance that ran into segment income as built to suite domestic store are driving the income growth where premium luxury is driving the revenue growth but lagging a little bit on the income side.
If you could… So this is Bill Berman and yes we’re definitely getting revenue growth out of premium luxury that’s just because average price for point.
The growth is definitely being generated out of the domestic segment.
That’s primarily driven by increased light duty truck sales trucks and SUVs.
Urgent pressure is just up on that if we can look at those segments domestic Midline import? So what we’re seeing out there this is Bill again we’re seeing on our PVRs is we're pleased with our performance in our overall total variable Op PVR which is up 3.2%.
What we’re seeing is once again steady growth in our domestic or downward pressures on our import and our premium luxuries are holding but the average sale price on our primer luxuries because the entry level models that have been recently introduced is bringing down our margins and reducing our growth slightly.
But on and all like I said we’re pleased with our performance in our total variable Op PVR has increased 3.2%.
Great thanks a lot and good luck.
Thank you Rick.
Thank you.
Our next question is Mr.
John Murphy of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Good morning this [Lisa] [ph] for John.
On a same-store basis your F&amp;I per vehicle got above 1 500 for the first time.
Was there anything in particular helping to boost that number that we shouldn’t think of as sustainable or does it seem like 1 500 is doable on an ongoing basis? AutoNation has always been a leader in CFS with our technology and our training and will continue to be that way.
We see steady growth opportunities in our CFS performance especially in our lower performing quartile stores and as we increase our focus on our product sales we’ll continue to grow our CFS PVRs.
Great thanks and on customer care how much of your revenue there is really to recalls in a typical year and how much of a benefit was elevated recall activity in the first quarter? Well on a growth basis recall totally represents 5.2% of our total customer care gross profit.
So I’ll have to get the exact numbers… I think as far as our increase it’s around 25% of the gross profit increase.
So of our gross profit customer care increase in the first quarter 25% of it was recall related.
So the piece of this surge of recall.
That’s all -- that’s what it meant to us to put it in perspective.
The sales numbers is the best 5% of our total customer care business is recall related.
Okay thanks it’s very helpful.
Thank you.
Our next question is Mr.
David Lim of Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Again I just wanted to -- good morning gentlemen.
I just wanted to follow-up on that F&amp;I per unit question wondering if you guys did something with the comp structure that you pay off to your F&amp;I personnel in order to push more of the insurance side on that F&amp;I portion? We haven’t had the substitute of change in our competition plans in the last year.
Got you.
And then when it comes to this whole Chrysler situation with MSRP and invoice granted the invoice becomes a lot more public via some of the Internet shopping sites but have they changed anything from a holdback structure? No there’s been no change in build there are no change on the holdback structure or any of the performance bonus metrics.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question is Paresh Jain of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Good morning everyone.
First one on the express stores it’s early days but now you have about 120 days of operations under your belt.
Can you give us any color on transaction times and market share performance of the stores there and if you could highlight a few things that may have surprised even you? Yeah in Express our journey to improve our AutoNation digital performance really began with the launching of the brand AutoNation just over two years ago and I recall at the time is said that was the inflection point.
And so our investment in the brand in digital is progressing extremely well and if look at our business here in the first quarter fully 19% of it was generated by the AutoNation sites and we had about 13% of our total business come from third-party site.
So we’ve significantly outgrown and had a crossover as far as our dependence upon third-party sites.
As far as it’s transactional capability under the flag AutoNation Express it’s not active in 84 of our stores.
It’s been very well accepted by our customers and by the stores.
We’ll roll it out across the rest of the enterprise through the course of the year and I expect in the next several years this strength of the AutoNation digital sites versus third party will widen with our sites breaking over 20 and third party sites going down into high single digits over the next couple of years.
That's helpful and just a second one on the used business you obviously had a great volume product there and pricing continues to be very favorable but what do we continue to see and this is across the deal I will go back to impact demand and pricing isn’t really helping to achieve the use if you could help us understand why that is the case? So our used vehicle volume as you said was up significantly.
We're looking at our total -- overall used car gross profit was up 7.9% and when I think about the used car business with the availability of inventory increasing and the way the market ebbs and flows as the market drops we're able to buy our cars for lower money and because of market dynamics being able to drive sustained PBR.
So we really don’t see any negative impact going forward.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from James Albertine of Stifel.
Your line is open.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Good morning Jamie.
Quick question if I may I noticed there is some of your press releases during the quarter some of the state-of-the-art facility upgrades just wanting to understand kind of what's going on there.
And if you put the math around the high level as it relates to investments and return on that investment and should we plan to see more of those facility upgrades to allow across the portfolio over time and at what pace thanks.
Yes this is Mike Jackson.
As I've often stated our first responsibility is to our existing organic business that it is state-of-the-art.
In the first quarter we had a number of major expenses and renovations that were of a level that is substantiated a re-grand opening that we get events in those markets I hosted events in those markets with our associates and customers.
We did allow local market press for the press release.
Yes I think you're going to see that continue through the course of the year that our confidence and optimism about our existing footprint remains -- will commence through OEM partners to have first class facilities and when they arrive to a certain level of investment we will be doing events in those markets and then you will see a press release.
And Jamie we're sticking with and it's called out $235 million CapEx forecast for this year.
Thanks again.
Let me add my congratulations and best of luck in the second quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Brett Hoselton of KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Good morning this is [Raveena] [ph] for Brett Hoselton.
I had a question for you regarding acquisitions in the comments you made about market activity.
Is it reasonable to assume that going forward given the increased number of sellers in the market perhaps your capital deployment will be weighed a little more towards acquisitions than stock repurchases? This is Mike Jackson.
Going forward on capital allocation we've never given that much clarity other than to say we're always looking at the balance between the opportunity on the acquisition side and the opportunity that's available on the share repurchase side.
I think it's fair to say that we have a lot of discussions underway but you never really know whether meets the transactions or not.
So it's very dangerous to say we're going to do X in this quarter and that quarter because then you feel this pressure to conclude to meet the commitments that you made.
But I think it is fair to say that there is a lot of activity and a lot of discussion underway from willing sellers and we will see if that leads to transaction.
Thank you for that.
Congratulations on a good quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is Brian Sponheimer of Gabelli.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning nice quarter.
Thank you.
Thanks Brian.
Hey just a couple of questions here thinking about just the recall comment that you made before what's your sense of where you are in some of the largest campaigns that are out there? And I guess to add on to that is Jackson the sense of that we're in elevated recall world for the foreseeable future? So the two biggest recalls we have out there right now is the GM ignition switch.
We've performed approximately 23 000 recalls there.
It's about 60% of what we feel is available to our current customer base and on the Takata airbag we've done 48 000 which is approximately $0.20.
On the availability on the parts of the Takata airbag are starting to open up.
So we see might be small increase in that but overall that's where we're at on the two biggest.
All right.
I appreciate that.
And just with the thought that for the next three to five years or maybe in the perpetuity we're looking at a situation where recall activity is just going to be elevated? Yes I think it will be it probably will be higher but whether it's mid high I am not convinced at all.
These are two extraordinary recalls that are so broad and so old that to say we are going to have these type of recalls open ended I am not necessarily there.
But I think the feeling within the industry is if in doubt to recall sooner the better and certainly the whole process somehow someway needs to be improved.
It's really broken the way it is today almost dysfunctional.
We get it all done at the end of the day but it's certainly not ideal and it's certainly the customer deserves something better than what's going on today.
But to say we're going to be open ended at this level I would not necessarily agree with that.
Okay.
And then just my last one used vehicle pricing I may have missed it average selling prices continue to rise how much of that is mix going from car and crossover to full size SUV versus just like-for-like what you're seeing from a pricing standpoint on used? We have to get the breaks down on what truck versus SUV versus car and the used cars.
Inherently as the volumes increase on the new car side the corresponding years on the late model two to four year old cars inherently the prices go up.
So most of it's being driven by the mix of inventory that's available to marketplace.
Understood thank you very much for answer.
Thank you.
And the next one is Mr.
David Lim of Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Good morning everyone.
Question for either Mike Cheryl or Bill when we think about the S&amp;I PVR and I think you mentioned earlier it is from the finance side in a scenario where the CFPV does mandate a fixed fee of let’s say 250 or 300 whatever it is and you guys lose $100 to $200 per vehicle what are the levers that you could pull in order to make up the $100 to $200 loss there in theory? And then I do have a second follow up question.
This is Mike Jackson.
So first I'll take the price as the industry move to a flat fee and if they did move to a flat fee I am surprise if that is what the flat fee is the number that you mentioned.
Doesn’t mean I can't be surprised that's not where I think this is going but let’s see.
I think Bill stated the case well.
We see exceptional potential in the product side of the portfolio and speaking of flatness our finance side of the equation has been relatively flat for years.
All of growth has been on the product side and we intend to take a big step launching a pilot in the third quarter where again with the brand AutoNation we will now offer our own maintenance contracts under the AutoNation brand name and we feel this will be another growth opportunity that had potential to be very beneficial in 2016 as we get through the pilot study.
Interesting and then I know that some of these OEMs further down the road are talking about over the air software updates whether it be infotainment or what have you for their vehicles how would that affect your business or the dealer business in general? And is that something where you guys are maybe or in dealers in general pushing back on the OEMs or proposing that these software update actually should occur at the dealership.
Thank you.
First we’re quite the opposite.
We’re advocating whatever is most convenient for the customer and have long argued that the cars be designed and equipped in a way that these software updates can be done on a regular basis without any inconvenience to the customers.
And I think that’s pretty much the direction the industry is going in.
I think some manufacture on certain models are already there and I expect that would to be continued in the future.
It’s not a big part of our business today.
This is Bill.
The thing I would add to that is on the flip side of this.
I think technology is also going to be able to drive the customer to be able to diagnose a car and drive the customer back into the dealer to perform whether it’s a maintenance requirement or a possible warranty of recall.
I think it nullified the dealer and the customers as well as come back into us.
So we see as a positive.
Yeah and that’s the other thing we’re pushing forward to manufactures and that the car communicate with us what its maintenance needs are so that when the customer comes in we already know the parts of been ordered and that they're there and we're ready to make the repairs.
So I think this connected car were the car whereas the car talking to the manufacturer and talking to the customer care experts namely as the retailer I think has tremendous potential for the business and for the convenience of the customer and we're all for it.
Excellent perspective.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] I think we're all set for the day.
Thank you very much for joining us.
Very much appreciated.
Thank you for the questions.
This concludes today's conference.
We thank you all for joining.
Welcome to AutoNation's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen only mode.
After the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have an objection you may disconnect at this time.
Now I will turn the call over to Mr.
Andrew Wamser Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations for AutoNation.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
And welcome to AutoNation's second quarter 2015 conference call and webcast.
Leading our call today will be Mike Jackson our Chairman CEO and President; Cheryl Miller our Chief Financial Officer; Bill Berman our Chief Operating Officer and Jon Ferrando our EVP responsible for M&amp;A.
Following their remarks we will open up the call for questions.
Robert Quartaro and I will also be available by phone following the call to address any additional questions that you may have.
Before we begin let me read our brief statement regarding forward-looking comments.
Certain statements and information on this call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve risks which may cause the actual results or performance to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Additional discussions of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are contained in our press release issued earlier today and our SEC filings including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K.
Certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules will be discussed on this call.
Reconciliations are provided in our press release and on our website located at investors.autonation.com.
And now I'll turn the call over to AutoNation's Chairman CEO and President Mike Jackson.
Mike? Chief Executive Officer and President</strong> Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we reported record second quarter earnings per share from continuing operations of $1 a 20% increase as compared to EPS from continuing operations of $0.83 for the same period in the prior year.
This is the 19th consecutive quarter of double-digit year-over-year growth in EPS from continuing operations.
Second quarter 2015 revenue totaled $5.2 billion compared to $4.8 billion in the year-ago period an increase of 9% driven by stronger performance in all our business sectors.
Total gross profit was an all-time record at $819 million compared to $745 million in the year-ago period an increase of 10%.
Operating income was a second quarter record at $220 million compared to $198 million in the year-ago period an increase of 12%.
In the second quarter AutoNation's retail new vehicle unit sales increased by 6% or 4% on the same-store sales basis.
Last week Honda Financial Services announced the new policy for dealer reserve that does not affect the dealer economics but achieves the CFPB's goal of reducing dealer reserve discretion.
We applaud Honda Financial Services for developing an enlightened solution that could become a template for the industry.
Regarding our digital initiatives we have accelerated the rollout of AutoNation Express.
First phase the rollout identifying and reserving a specific vehicle online has been well received by the marketplace and our associates.
AutoNation Express encompasses our continued commitment to delivering a peerless customer experience.
I'll now turn the call over to Chief Financial Officer Cheryl Miller.
Thank you Mike.
And good morning ladies and gentlemen.
For the second quarter we reported net income from continuing operations of $115 million or $1 per share versus net income of $101 million or $0.83 per share during the second quarter of 2014 a 20% improvement on a per share basis.
There were no adjustments to net income in either periods.
In the second quarter revenue increased $436 million or 9% compared to the prior year and gross profit improved $74 million or 10%.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross profit was 69.4% for the quarter which represents a 100 basis point decrease compared to the year-ago period.
Net new vehicle floorplan was a benefit of $16 million an increase of $2 million from the second quarter of 2014 primarily due to higher floorplan assistance.
Floorplan assistance increased due to higher new vehicle sales and an increase in the floorplan assistance rate per unit.
Floorplan debt increased sequentially approximately $319 million during the second quarter to $3.3 billion at quarter-end primarily due to increased borrowings on our new and used floorplan facilities which was driven by higher inventory levels supporting current sales trends and newly-acquired stores.
Non-vehicle interest expense increased slightly to $21.6 million compared to $21.3 million in the second quarter of 2014 due to higher debt balances.
At the end of June we had $2.1 billion of non-vehicle debt an increase of $73 million compared to March 31 2015.
In addition to our fixed rate debt this balance includes $800 million of outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility and $299 million of commercial paper.
The provision for income tax in the quarter was $71.6 million or 38.3%.
During the second quarter 2015 we repurchased 796 000 shares for $50 million at an average price of $62.78 per share.
AutoNation has approximately $217 million of remaining board authorization for share repurchase.
As of July 20 there were approximately 113 million shares outstanding and again this does not include the dilutive impact of stock options.
Our leverage ratio remained at 2.2 times at the end of Q2 as compared to Q1.
The leverage ratio was 2.0 times on a net debt basis including used floorplan availability and our covenant limit is 3.75 times.
Capital expenditures were $65.2 million for the quarter.
Capital expenditures are on an accrual basis excluding operating lease buyouts and related asset sales.
Our quarter-end cash balance was $65 million which combined with our additional borrowing capacity resulted in total liquidity of $1.1 billion at the end of June.
We plan to use the revolving credit facility as a liquidity backstop for borrowings under our commercial paper program.
At quarter-end we had $299 million of commercial paper notes outstanding which in effect reduces our available liquidity to $806 million.
We remain committed to driving company value and shareholder returns through disciplined capital allocation as we continue to invest in strategic digital initiatives acquisitions and opportunistic share repurchase.
Now let me turn you over to our Chief Operating Officer Bill Berman.
Thank you Cheryl and good morning.
AutoNation posted record second quarter results with growth across all business sectors.
We reported all-time records in total gross profit used vehicle revenue customer care revenue and customer care gross profit.
In the second quarter we set records in operating income net income from continuing operations and this marked our 19th consecutive quarter of double-digit EPS growth.
Going forward my comments will be on a same-store basis and compared to the period a year ago unless noted otherwise.
Total gross profit for variable operations was $459 million up 6%.
Total variable gross was $3 307 on a per vehicle retail basis an increase of $30 or 1%.
New and used same-store sale unit volume was up 5%.
New vehicle revenue for the quarter was $2.9 billion an increase of $144 million or 5%.
We retailed 83 000 units an increase of 4%.
New vehicle gross profit was $1 905 on a per vehicle retail basis a decrease of $106 or 5%.
We continue to experience new car PVR pressure in the import segment increased stair-step incentives as well as growth in entry-level Premium Luxury models.
However our focus remains on the total variable operation.
For the quarter used vehicle retail revenue was $1.1 billion an increase of $86 million or 9% compared to the period a year ago.
Used vehicle retail were 55 800 up 7%.
Used vehicle gross profit was $1 590 on a per vehicle retail basis a decrease of $95 or 6%.
Customer Financial Services gross profit was $1 528 on a per-vehicle retail basis an increase of $133 or 10%.
Approximately two-thirds of our gross profit per vehicle retailed was related to Customer Financial Services products and one-third was related to finance.
Total gross profit for Customer Financial Services of $212 million was up $28 million or 15% compared to the period a year ago.
During the quarter we rolled out the first AutoNation branded products the AutoNation Vehicle Protection Plan or VPP in our Central Region.
The initial launch of VPP has been well received by our associates in the marketplace.
By the end of the third quarter the program will be rolled out nationwide to our remaining domestic and import stores.
Over the remainder of the year we will also pilot additional AutoNation branded products.
We continue to see opportunity in Customer Financial Services as we drive store-level execution and offer product that deliver customer value and drive loyalty.
As Mike mentioned earlier we do not expect a financial impact to our business from Honda Financial Services new dealer reserve policy.
The new policy provides compensation in addition to the dealer reserve which is capped at 100 basis points to 125 basis points based on the term of the loan.
We believe Honda's new policy could become an attractive template for the industry.
In the quarter customer care revenue was at an all-time record of $751 million an increase of $51 million or 7%.
We set another all-time record in customer care gross profit of $324 million an increase of $26 million or 9%.
Customer pay gross was $129 million up 8% our 20th consecutive quarterly increase in customer pay gross.
Warranty gross was $62 million up 11%.
Collision gross was $30 million up 12%.
Turning to digital though we are still in the early phases of the rollout we are pleased with the growth of traffic to our website.
AutoNation website generated over 20% of sales for the first half of the year.
We completed the first phase of AutoNation Express six months ahead of schedule.
We remain committed to providing transparency and delivering a peerless customer experience with initiatives such as AutoNation Express.
Thanks to the efforts of our 25 000 associates we achieved an unprecedented milestone in automotive history with the sale of our 10 millionth vehicle.
We'll continue to build on this momentum in the second half of the year by selling and servicing one car at a time to our next milestone.
I'll now turn the call back to Mike Jackson.
Chief Executive Officer and President</strong> Thanks Bill.
We believe the auto industry remains healthy and we're reconfirming our 2015 sales forecast of 17 million units.
With that we'll be happy to take your questions.
I'm calling in from New York so I'll direct the traffic on the questions to the team in Fort Lauderdale but let's begin.
Thank you sir.
Our first question is Mr.
Colin Langan of UBS.
Your line is open.
Oh great.
Thanks for taking my question.
Can you give color on the – when you mentioned Honda's Finance has no impact on your profit but you also made a comment that there is additional income in addition to the cap.
How does that mechanism work? Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> This is Mike Jackson.
I think the Honda agreement is very enlightened it's something that while in principle everyone agreed that discrimination or unintentional disparate impact is not something that should exist in auto retail how to get there was quite a contentious dilemma.
And I think the Honda solution is quite enlightened in that by putting caps in place that are dramatically reduced the amount of discretion that exists on the individual transaction at the store level was dramatically reduced and in principle AutoNation moved in that direction a decade ago.
But when the cap is only 100 basis points to 125 basis points the economics would change and that's not acceptable as a solution and everyone agreed CFPB lenders and certainly retailers that the added value that dealers have on indirect lending is significant and that the compensation we're receiving was fair and justified and this was not about changing that.
So there is additional compensation system that comes to the dealers for having originated the loan that is built into the base rate from Honda.
So we've looked at it.
We say this gets us whole back to where we are and addresses CFPB issues and I think it's workable for the lenders.
So AutoNation is publicly supporting this direction.
We will work with Honda closely on working on any bugs in the system to make sure we achieve this goal.
And we will urge other lenders to take a close look at this as a template for a solution and pledge to those lenders if they go in this direction they will have AutoNation's full support.
And as a follow-up I believe industry data says that there is about 100 basis point markup on new but about 200 basis point on used.
So do you think there will be separate rules for used or an adjustment made or is that a risk to the used F&amp;I profit? Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> So Honda is in the midst of having a series of meetings across the country where they're just rolling this out.
I think there are detailed questions that are still unanswered and there could be some changes.
So I don't want to get too deep into the weeds on exactly how it all is going to work but I can tell you I've looked at it and I've spoken to Honda's I've spoken to CFPB.
I believe this is a very workable concept and a structure and with a little movement here and there on some details it's going to work.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
One last question.
Just any color on the decline and what was driving the decline in margins on new? That's it.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> I think – this is Mike Jackson again.
I think again gas prices are significantly different what everyone thought they would be couple years ago.
So this has led to a tremendous shift in consumer demand.
If you look at the year-to-date industry sales figures up 4.4% that's 10% in trucks 9% in luxury vehicles and car sales are actually down.
There's a mismatch between installed capacity and what the marketplace is demanding.
So there's quite a bit of pressure around midsize sedans which is a traditional strength of Japanese manufacturers.
So that's a challenge.
These things happen from time to time.
We'll work through it.
But that's what's going on.
Bill would you like to add any more color to that? Yeah Mike.
The only other thing I would add is there are some additional pressure coming from stair-step coming from certain manufacturers as well as entry-level Premium Luxury vehicles are having an adverse effect on PVR.
But like I said earlier we're looking at total variable PVR and for the seventh consecutive quarter we've been able to grow that and last quarter was an additional $30.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question is Mr.
John Murphy of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Hi John.
Good morning guys.
Good.
How are you? Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Excellent.
A first question it sounds like the AutoNation Express in your online efforts have been really pulled forward and accelerated here.
I am just curious how that correlates to your spending your investment that you've highlighted on that and what kind of benefits we might be able to see more quickly in the second half of this year and going into 2016? Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> So John I think that's a correct assumption.
And in our plan for this you always have contingencies for challenges and difficulties that you can't foresee.
In this case though we saw the opportunity to move faster and so we did and I'm not going to quantify how much money that is but we made additional investments in the second quarter.
Also as I laid out years ago that we would reduce our dependency on third parties and there would be a vetting process to determine who we could partner with in the long-term on third parties but that we expect to ultimately be in the high single-digits.
We came to a fork in the road with TrueCar which was 3% of our business in the second quarter and that money will be reinvested in the AutoNation brand and AutoNation Express going forward.
So it's strategically all good news.
I think we are on the right path for our company.
I'm absolutely convinced of it but we need the flexibility and freedom depending on circumstances to either speed up or slow down depending what we're confronted with.
But we are very pleased and I have to congratulate Bill and his team for fully implementing AutoNation Express first phase six months ahead of time quite an effort.
Okay.
And does that mean that the bulk of the $100 million has been spent or that is still over the next couple of years that there is still a big chunk to come in the next couple of years? Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Yes there is still far to go John.
So phase one the next phase that we'll take out nationally is we'll buy your car.
That's already through pilot that will roll out in the rest of this year.
And then we'll be in pilot phase towards the end of the year for financing and customer care and then move that out in 2016.
We intend to fully make our site transactional for every phase of the business and we think combined with our brand positioning to attract consumers to our sites give them a good experience.
The most important thing is onsite they want to be able to do something the sites need to be transactional.
This combination of a strong brand with consumer empowered transactional sites that is seamlessly integrated into the dealerships is something no one else in the industry is doing.
And we're convinced that it will be a significant competitive advantage for us in the long-term.
And how we have to make those investments from quarter and quarter will speed up and slow down depending upon the challenges and opportunities that we have.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then just a follow-up to Colin's question on the new vehicle gross pressure I mean is this really something where you think it is really just a mix shift because there's a lot of concern in the market that it portends some pressure on demand in general.
I mean just curious on what you're seeing there and if you think demand is fundamentally showing up and not being incented by these cuts in gross? Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> By the way we think about it John and I was very clear with the team several years ago that total variable gross is our final report card.
And then we have a lot of different ways to get there.
But I want to see and the company wants to see a steady increase in total variable gross.
And then how the various pieces move within that is interesting and we'll talk about.
But at the end of the day we have to put the whole pie together and we've shown we're very successful in doing that.
Front-end grosses will move around new cars depending like we just already talked about the gas situation used cars this year we're pushing for volume.
But if you then take those opportunities and are able to package it with your Financial Services and products and come out ahead I think it's a good business plan.
And so we've consistently demonstrated the ability to do that.
And so that's the big picture for me that I'm saying.
I think our total front-end gross is stable to – I've observed the fact that seven quarters in a row we've improved it so there's something going on there.
And there it is.
Okay.
And then just lastly Cheryl you alluded to floorplan assistance being increased and rates being increased.
Just curious why that's happening with inventory levels largely balance and demand coming through.
It just – I'm just not sure why there would be an increase of floorplan assistance coming from the automakers.
Just curious why that happens? Some of that's mix shift so I would say that varies depending on what products are out there that we have out there.
Our focus within floorplan certainly is to make sure we're running the inventories in a disciplined way to take advantage of the assistance per unit but also to keep down the interest expense cost.
So we're very focused on our partnerships with the captives and bank lenders on the interest expense side as well as making sure we manage the inventory there as well.
But as you know the OEMs have an ability to look at that assistance per unit and that's something that as interest rates move up which at some point they will.
So whether that's September December into next year that's another variable that the OEMs have that they can continue to look at.
Okay.
So it's more of mix than an actual rate change at this point but there could be a rate change going forward is what you're saying? I'd say it's a combination.
Some of them have moved it per unit some of its mixed and then I think going forward it's something that we'll continue to see how the OEMs evaluate that particularly in a rising rate environment future.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Thank you John.
Thank you.
Our next question is Paresh Jain of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Good morning everyone.
A follow-up on the CFPB impact now Mike AutoNation is certainly welcoming the Honda solution but there seems to be still a lot of resistance in the broader dealer community.
So if I'm looking at it from a different angle any potential negative impact here perhaps could be far worse for the smaller dealer groups that on average have one or two stores and don't have the same levels to pull as AutoNation and other dealer groups to offset that impact.
So do you think this could hurt their multiple and create some acquisition opportunities since a lot of times valuation is what holds up deals from getting done? Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> I think in principle you have a point.
And while this is still very controversial within the total dealer organization and you saw both NADA and AIADA come out with strong statements opposing this.
I think for smaller dealers the ever increasing regulatory burden in principle – and by the way you can look at that for all business whether we're talking about how you keep track of over time? How you deal with healthcare? The regulatory environment now here around the CFPB it's a regulatory burden for smaller companies.
In principle in America it's getting more and more difficult.
And also there is a large number of dealers who have not narrowed their bandwidth on their financing reserves have not installed disciplined caps and so they have much further to go to get to a solution like Honda.
Now I can't begin to tell you whether that's going to change the acquisition environment.
I will tell you though that this regulatory burden and difficulty of doing business and the complexity of the demands from the OEMs.
You need a PhD to keep track of these incentive programs.
It is making the world much more difficult and you need a certain size and a certain structure and a certain discipline to be able to manage it all.
So I think the willing sellers are going to be standing there for quite some time.
No that makes sense.
On AutoNation Express and I apologize if I missed this earlier I understand you may not be able to share specific numbers on the performance impact but can you highlight certain metrics that you are internally tracking? Is it about conversion? Is it about transaction time market share? Just wanted to understand how you prioritize and rank your goals with Express initiative.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> So it's a one-two punch and that cannot be missed.
First we're building the brand AutoNation and the metric I can give you there is that the awareness and consideration for doing business with AutoNation in a relatively short period of time just over two years has already exceeded all the legacy brands.
It's just a tremendous launch and embraced by the marketplace.
The next metric we look at and we've changed our marketing to drive much more traffic to AutoNation sites is what is the yield or what is the business generated from AutoNation sites by raising the visibility of our brand in all the ways you do in the digital marketplace.
And then how do you approve the experience that you have ever higher customer satisfaction higher closing rates.
And again I'll just give you there a very broad metric from before we started this effort AutoNation's digital sites generated less than 10% of the business and now we're over 20% of the business.
So that's a doubling since the brand launch and the investments to improve the experience on the AutoNation site.
So you look that report card and say yeah this is working.
Got it.
And lastly just a housekeeping one depreciation kind of saw an uptick this quarter what was the driver for that and how sustainable is it? Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> That would be Cheryl's specialty.
Cheryl? Yeah Paresh this is Cheryl welcome to the call.
The majority of increase is actually driven by recent renovations and acquisitions as well as accelerated depreciation on a corporate asset.
But going forward we expect depreciation will be more in line with Q1 of 2015.
And keep in mind that on digital the majority of digital is actually expensed so we were pleased with our ability to keep SG&amp;A as a percentage of growth improving versus last year and below that 70% metric despite the increased digital investment.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is Mr.
David Lim of Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
I wondered if – again follow-up on the gross margin question.
But on a yearly basis we have seen declines since 2012.
I guess the question is what are the factors that could possibly turn that around where we could see some incremental gains coming into the future? I mean you have talked about mix and some stair-step programs but what would actually turn the industry around for you guys? Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> You can get cadence launches from manufacturers particularly in Premium Luxury where certain products when they arrive for the first year or two could actually impact the entire margin of the company.
So they are nice to have but it's incidental and you can't say that's a strategic shift.
I would say in principle the pressure on front-end margins I expect to remain.
It's a competitive marketplace.
You have stair-steps are being embraced by additional marketing companies and that is a downward pressure and you have pressure from third-party – from certain third-party sites that put pressure on front-end margins.
So it's a very competitive marketplace.
So I'm not calling a turn in the front-end gross margin.
I'm not – if it happens we'll certainly point it out when it does but I'm not sitting here looking forward at an environment where I say I see how we can do that not that we aren't trying but I'm not predicting it.
And that's why a couple of years ago we said look we've really got to have a strategy that we look at the total front-end variable gross on a transaction and we've implemented that strategy and we're executing it successfully.
Got you.
The follow-up question I have there is are you seeing additional OEMs I think you alluded to this additional OEMs offering stair-steps? And also on – is a larger percentage of sales for you as well as the industry really relying upon the leases? And if so are you seeing OEMs playing with the residual values when they come to the lease calculation? Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> So as far as stair-steps I've sort of come to terms that there is now three certainties: debt taxes and stair-steps.
I've railed against them and all of their sins but they're not going away.
And you have some practitioners who have gotten highly skilled at.
Even though I don't like the practice they actually run it in a very professional way and you have others where it's absolutely a loose cannon rolling back and forth across the deck.
And you have a couple of newcomers to the party.
So there it is I don't think they're going away.
And leasing we like leasing I have no issues with leasing.
I think auto financing whether it's longer-terms leasing is in fantastic shape people pay for their cars the record is clear and leasing does set up a recurring buying cycle which is very worthwhile.
Bill you have anything to add? Yeah.
I would add.
Our leasing penetration has gone up slightly about 200 basis points on a year-over-year basis.
Like Mike said I am a big fan of leasing.
And there doesn't appear to be any really incentivization of the residuals and they're pretty on-base to the industry standards.
Most of the incentives have come in on the finance side of leasing.
So we don't see any real impact when it comes to any kind of overhead on our residual values.
Great.
Just two more questions quickly.
We noticed that your inventories had a little uptick on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
I think some of that was explained but I was wondering if you could give additional color? And then finally when you talk about the Honda settlement I think you are alluding to the fact that Honda would give some sort of fee or it's baked into the original cost of loan.
But if we stripped all of that out would it go back to let's say 150 basis points or 200 basis points above when it comes to dealer reserve? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> On Honda I don't understand the question.
So there is compensation in the base buy rate that is going to come to the retailer.
And then we have a range of markup of 100 basis points to 125 basis points depending on term.
And we will put both that compensation into dealer reserve as you referred to it and when you combine both...
Yes.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> ...we come out to the same place that we are today.
That's the easiest way I can explain it.
Got you.
So what I was trying to understand is that same place is that like 200 bps in the old methodology or how should...
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Oh! I see what you're saying.
So our old caps were 250 basis points the old system that we are operating under and our average dealer reserve is 90 basis points.
Got you.
And can you talk about...
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Bill you talk about the inventory please.
Yeah.
The inventory being ramped-up two things.
First and foremost it's driven by acquisitions from last year.
So obviously intrinsically that brings up the inventory as well as an increased inventory going into the selling season.
We have no issues on a day supply or by any particular brand.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Our next question is Mr.
Rick Nelson of Stephens.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Mike can you address the TrueCar situation and what you think that means for your business? Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> So TrueCar generated – the leads generated 3% of our business.
We were operating under a contract that had acceptable terms.
That contract expired end of February beginning of March.
TrueCar had demanded in the new contract that we give them all our customer information.
In old contract we gave TrueCar no customer information we gave them anonymous data but we gave them no customer information.
This is an unprecedented demand they weren't asking for the 3% they were asking for 100%.
And we've never given.
I don't know what company gives away 100% of their customer information.
I think it also if we said yes definitely would have created privacy issues that would have been cumbersome for us to implement in that we would have had to gotten permission from our customers to give this information to TrueCar and we really didn't want to intrude into a sales transaction by saying oh! Mr.
Smith you've never heard a TrueCar but do you mind if we send them all the information on this transaction.
That's something we really – we really wanted to protect the privacy of our customers.
And TrueCar was making this demand saying this is how they operate with all their dealerships.
And while I certainly didn't investigate that other than to say I don't think that's true.
I think they operate quite differently with other companies.
I think this is a new demand that we cannot agree to.
So I think it was a demand that we could not agree to that was based on a false premise.
And if you arrive at that point with a company you should really just go your separate ways.
That's what we've done.
We think our brand is strong enough our digital capabilities are strong enough that we will be fine.
And TrueCar is now on our rearview mirror.
Inc.</span></strong> I got you.
So you think you can offset that volume by reallocating spend to drive volume elsewhere? Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Oh! Rick I thought I would be at this point years ago that at some point a third-party would make a demand that was unacceptable was an overreach.
And we better have a way to go when that day comes or else you're really in trouble.
So I believe our brand and our digital effort is strong enough that we will be able to go forward and put TrueCar in the rearview mirror.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks for that color.
I'd also like to ask Bill about regional performance strengths weaknesses and in particularly Texas Florida California if there is any outliers there? Okay Rick.
Yeah this is Bill.
Actually we had strong performance out of all three states that you just called out: Texas Florida and California.
We've had no negative impact in Texas with declining oil prices.
If anything it's put more disposable income into our consumers' hands and we had very solid growth out of all three of those markets.
Across the country all three of our regions are performing at a very high level and pretty much across the board.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks a lot and good luck.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Thanks Rick.
Our next question is Mr.
Brett Hoselton of KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Good Morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Two quick questions.
First of all M&amp;A outlook have you seen any notable or material changes maybe in terms of the volume of deals and or valuations? Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Jon could you please take care of that? Corporate Development and Human Resources</span></strong> Yeah.
Sure Brett.
It's Jon Ferrando.
We've been....
Inc.</span></strong> Hey Jon.
Corporate Development and Human Resources</span></strong> ...pretty consistent the last couple of years in calling out that we're expecting a good pipeline of potential opportunities the next few years.
We have been able to execute on that with over $2 billion of annualized revenue acquired since late 2012.
Through the first six months of this year we've closed five acquisitions with $320 million in revenue with a good brand mix including Premium Luxury.
So we feel like we've been able to execute on opportunities in the marketplace I would say currently we continue to see a solid strong pipeline of potential deals out there and we are well positioned for a number of reasons to continue to execute on acquisitions that will provide a strong return on capital.
So we'll continue to be prudent.
We see good opportunities and we're well positioned to execute.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you Jon.
And switching gears as we look out over the next year or two interest rates are likely to rise.
And my question is simply how do we think about the impact of interest rates on your earnings in other words what are maybe some of the more significant impacts areas of impact on your earnings? Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Well we fully – this is Mike Jackson – we fully expect interest rates to begin rising later this year.
It will be different than most interest rate increase cycles.
And in that – it'll go slower and stop sooner.
That's what we expect.
We think that's entirely manageable and you can't expect these extremely low interest rates forever and it could actually be a very healthy sign for the economy that you're telling everyone this crisis is over.
And I think we will go on selling high 16 million 17 million vehicles in a more normal interest rate environment.
Inflation appears to be far away.
So above average rates are something over the horizon from this point of view.
As far as to quantify exactly what the cost is of 100 basis points do you have that Cheryl? Yeah.
I would note there is a couple of places this impacts us.
If you think about from a customer perspective for instance if you have a 1% increase in interest rates that's less than $15 a month on the average $30 000 60 month length (43:26).
So we always think first about impacts on customer and as Mike said in a slow steady rise that's going to be very manageable.
We've got $2.1 billion of corporate debt that's roughly 56 footing (43:35).
And then we've got $3.3 billion of floorplan which flows but to Jon's point earlier and discussion that we had you have assistance on that so you can manage inventory levels can see where the OEMs go with that fixed rate assistance on a per vehicle basis to help offset that.
The underlying theme though in – this is cyclical business we've been through interest rate cycles and rises before we think it's manageable we think usually the customer is tend to be better positioned which is part of why the rates are rising.
And overall for the economy we think it's a healthy thing we're prepared for it.
An example of the things that we do in light of it is commercial paper program.
So we were able to secure $300 million of financing at a market rates which are substantially lower than our revolver.
So we're looking for ways to continue to reduce spreads and look at alternative instruments where possible to help lower our blended rate where we can.
And I think that's the great thing about a strong balance sheet is the ability to make sure that we're hitting pockets of the market.
There is a lot of capital out there.
So we're going to hit pockets of the markets where we can be flexible and opportunistic at lower cost rates.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you Cheryl.
Thank you Mike.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Are there any more questions? Yes.
Our next question is Mr.
Brian Sponheimer of Gabelli.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
Thanks for having me on.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Hey.
Inc.</span></strong> Mike you've been ahead a lot of industry trends over the course of the last decade.
And I guess I just wanted – potentially peel back the onion on why you think we have another two years to three years of $16.5 million to $17 million SAAR and I guess we'll just take it from there? Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> I've seen the argument for $18 million $19 million I've seen the argument for $14 million $15 million.
I don't believe either of those.
I think it's high $16 million $17 million is trend.
I think the average age is still pushed out to 11.5 years 11.6 years.
Interest rates are still going to be very reasonable for consumers.
I've seen the product portfolio from the manufacturers it's extraordinary the best ever.
And it looks like gas prices are going to be low for extended period of time.
So it's hard to say anything past three years.
But I think we still have several years to go of high $16 million $17 million and it's too far away horizon to say how many.
When will it end? When inflation rears its head and the Federal Reserve begins increasing interest rates above normal aggressively to tamp down inflation there will be the downturn in housing and there will be a downturn in auto sales.
I am absolutely convinced Cheryl said it earlier we've remained in a cyclical business.
And that is not going to change.
We'll be prepared for it.
We will outperform in it.
If our stock falls out of significant favor during that period we'll view it as a buying opportunity.
So we really have – we really think we can create shareholder value anywhere in the cycle anytime in the cycle.
But I think its high $16 million $17 million.
If you want to – so we all can manage $18 million $19 million okay so let's not even talk about that.
Those who argue for $14 million that say two things that car sharing is going to have a significant impact on the marketplace I think car sharing has its place in the marketplace.
I think it's wonderful I think Uber is a great company.
But just somebody add up there is 3 trillion miles driven a year in the United States.
How many miles are driven on car sharing? It's an infinitesimal part of the marketplace.
It will have its place but it's not going to structurally change the selling volume and we have Millenniums (47:51) who are not going to buy cars that's the other argument.
They are not going to get driver's license they are not going to drive cars.
We talk to that generation every day.
They have a student debt problem that they need to work off.
It's a four to five year delay in what they normally would be doing in their lives.
But they want their own homes they want to get married they want to have kids and they want to have a car.
And so that is going to become the biggest generator generation buying new vehicles and so I'm right smacked there in the middle high $16 million to $17 million and I think that's sustainable over the next several years.
Inc.</span></strong> All right that's good.
I appreciate the color.
Just one more the impact of Berkshire buying Van Tuyl on potentially your ability to find some larger acquisitions and the multiples that you have to pay.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> We've seen no impact.
Have you Jon anything to add on that? Corporate Development and Human Resources</span></strong> No no impact haven't run into them on acquisitions and we see very good pipeline with a lot of activity out there.
If anything it may have increased sellers that are interested in exploring the marketplace.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> So you know I said it at the time I've met Warren a few times I've talked to him about the car business a few times.
I admire him as an investor he is a value investor.
So he's certainly a credible buyer in the marketplace absolutely.
But is he going to rush in and overpay for stuff? I don't think so.
And we see no sign of that yet.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question is Mr.
David Whiston of Morningstar.
Your line is open.
Thanks good morning.
Mike you actually gave some very helpful commentary on one of my questions on car sharing.
Longer term though are you open to that possibly being a threat that you could bring the SAAR well below 14 million or you think that's just still way too far out to even think about this? Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> I think that's way too far away.
Again I'm not in denial and I think there is a role for car sharing especially in certain urban settings.
And I think people – everyone is open to it.
I mean everyone has embraced to Uber it's not a generational thing.
It's a great way of doing things.
But to say that it's going to take 3 million out of the annual selling rate of new vehicles I just can't get there at all.
So that's my point of view.
And we'll see.
So far my batting average on these things is pretty good.
So we'll see.
Okay.
Thanks.
And moving on you guys have had a lot of success in the AutoNation 40 Under 40 polls the best dealers to work.
How do you retain rising mid-level talent like that once you identify them? Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> We offer something quite unique in the industry not only a professional career opportunity but fully supported by a talent development process that is centered on AutoNation University that is a big investment on our part by the company in the talent within the company Jon Ferrando led the effort created and it's the – the courses are taught by ourselves Bill Berman did a session this morning.
I did one yesterday.
Jon why don't you talk about it a little bit? Corporate Development and Human Resources</span></strong> Yeah we've – we launched the AutoNation University years ago.
We're putting our GM talent and potential talent through it.
For a number of years it's been very successful it's – our flagship development program we think it helps us attract great talent into the company when we go out and acquire businesses that's a great selling point for sellers that we offer tremendous careers and we back it up for great talent by making major investments in people and AN University is one example of it.
It is a large investment it's five weeks of their time throughout a year along with mentorship along the way.
So we're able to attract retain and develop great talent through the investment.
And in fact Bill and I've been working on a number of ways to expand that to other positions within the company as well as with Cheryl on the finance side.
So we continue to expand our university development offerings to talented people that want to go further with their career.
And David this is Bill.
I'm actually one of those that came up through the company I'm hired on 17 years ago in my early 30s through an acquisition and nearly I think 90% 95% of our senior leadership in the field has come up through that program from our RPs to our market presidents all the way down to our store level GMs so to Jon's point we identify talent early in the pipeline and then with different training courses grow and mentor them throughout the process.
And I'm sorry what was that percentage you gave? 90% of our market presidents and our regional presidents all came from through GMU.
Okay.
And that's very helpful.
Thank you.
My last question is what are your plans for the commercial paper proceeds or is that just done because of the lower cost of capital that Cheryl talked about earlier? Really lower cost of capital.
So its general corporate uses.
It could be anything from repo to acquisition CapEx et cetera.
So it was opportunistic from a pricing standpoint relative to the rates that we're paying under our broader revolving credit facility.
Okay.
Thanks for all the detail.
We have time for one last question.
Last question is Mr.
David Tamberrino of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Hey great.
Thanks for squeezing me in here.
On the parts and service looks like it was still a pretty solid comp but it was decelerating from the fourth quarter 10% and then 8% in the first quarter.
Do you expect that to continue to decelerate in the back half of this year? And then just on the back of that can you explain the gross profit margin expansion in P&amp;S that you saw year-over-year and what the mix impact was as a result? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Bill you want to take that please? Yeah.
So absolutely so no we do not see a continued decline.
Some of that's just seasonality.
We will sit here and be able to grow in the mid-to-high single digits on a go-forward basis and as far as the margin in growth couple of different factors that are driving that; R.O.
count mix of work increase in CP drivers and also increase in our parts gross and our parts dollars per R.O.
That's helpful.
And then just one last one on the used margin we saw it down I think about 70 basis points year-over-year and you would expect at least we would have with off-lease supply growing that you might see lower wholesale pricing as a result is that not coming to fruition and what's really driving that the compression in used margins? Thank you.
So Mike I can take that.
So I think it's a little bit of a blip last year we had a much lower inventory level so it gave us the ability to go after margin more.
Currently we're focused more on driving volume and we have a little bit of a blip last quarter I do not see that continuing.
The nice thing about used cars to your point as we get more off-lease vehicles coming in it will lower our buy – or what we can buy the vehicle for and it should be able to maintain or even help grow our margins slightly.
There is always 30 days 60 days lag on that where you ebb and flow with the marketplace.
But going forward we see good growth in used car volumes and PVRs.
Thank you.
That's very helpful.
Chief Executive Officer and President</strong> Thank you everyone for joining us today.
We really appreciate all your questions.
Thank you very much.
This does concludes today's conference.
Thank you all for joining today.
Welcome to AutoNation's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen only mode.
After the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I will turn the call over to Mr.
Andrew Wamser Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations for AutoNation.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you operator and good morning everyone and welcome to AutoNation's third quarter 2015 conference call and webcast.
Leading our call today will be Mike Jackson our Chairman CEO and President; Cheryl Miller our Chief Financial Officer; Bill Berman our Chief Operating Officer; and Jon Ferrando our Executive Vice President responsible for M&amp;A.
Following their remarks we will open up the call for questions.
Robert Quartaro and I will also be available by phone following the call to address any additional questions that you may have.
Before we begin let me read our brief statement regarding forward-looking comments.
Certain statements and information on this call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve risks which may cause the actual results or performance to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Additional discussions of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are contained in our press release issued earlier today and our SEC filings including our most-recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K.
Certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules will be discussed on this call.
Reconciliations are provided in our press release and on our website located at investors.autonation.com.
And now I'll turn the call over to AutoNation's Chairman CEO and President Mike Jackson.
Chief Executive Officer and President</strong> Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we reported an all-time record earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.05 a 17% increase as compared to EPS from continuing operations of $0.90 for the same period in the prior year.
This is our 20th consecutive quarter of double-digit year-over-year growth in EPS from continuing operations.
Third quarter 2015 revenue totaled $5.4 billion compared to $4.9 billion in the year-ago period an increase of 9% driven by stronger performance in all of our business sectors.
Total gross profit was $830 million compared to $753 million in the year-ago period an increase of 10%.
Operating income was $236 million compared to $207 million in the year-ago period an increase of 14%.
In the third quarter AutoNation's retail new vehicle unit sales increased by 7% or 5% on a same-store basis.
Today AutoNation also announced the acquisition of Allen Samuels Auto Group 12 stores with approximately $800 million in annual revenue spanning across six Texas markets.
Since the beginning of 2015 we have announced acquisitions with roughly $1.7 billion in annual revenue of which $1 billion is Chrysler Jeep Ram Dodge related.
We will continue to pursue acquisitions that leverage our scale expand the AutoNation brand and provide strong returns for our shareholders.
The third quarter was also a pivotal for AutoNation.
We continue to build the AutoNation brand execute our digital strategy showing our websites currently represent over 25% of our unit sales and third-party leads now represent less than 9% of our unit sales.
We did all of this and delivered an all-time record EPS from continuing operations.
In the third quarter we announced an unprecedented industry-leading recall policy.
It's simple.
We will not sell lease wholesale or dealer trade any new or used vehicle that has an open recall.
We have made it our responsibility to identify and remove these vehicles from our inventory until the recall issues have been addressed.
This will require us to build used inventory levels through the fourth quarter.
We expect our used business to normalize in the first half of 2016 once our used inventory levels are ramped up.
This is a significant brand attribute that differentiates AutoNation from – that no competitor has matched not even CarMax.
I now turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Cheryl Miller.
Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
For the third quarter we reported net income from continuing operations of $190 million or $1.05 per share versus net income of $107 million or $0.90 per share during the third quarter of 2014 a 17% improvement on a per share basis.
There were no adjustments to net income in either periods.
In the third quarter revenue increased $445 million or 9% compared to the prior year and gross profit improved $77 million or 10%.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross profit was 68.5% for the quarter which represents a 90 basis point decrease compared to the year-ago period.
The provision for income tax in the quarter was $76.3 million or 39.1%.
On September 21 we issued $750 million of senior unsecured notes consisting $300 million of notes at 3.35% which are scheduled to mature in 2021 as well as $450 million of notes at 4.5% which are scheduled to mature in 2025.
A transaction represented our debut investment-grade bond financing and was extremely well-received by investors.
The note proceeds were primarily used to reduce borrowings under our existing revolving credit facility.
This resulted in an increase in our percentage of fixed-rate non-vehicle debt to 80% at the end of the quarter from 48% at June 30 2015.
Returning to third quarter results net new vehicle floorplan was a benefit of $17 million an increase of $2 million from the third quarter of 2014 primarily due to increased new vehicle unit sales as well as higher floorplan assistance rate per unit.
Floorplan debt decreased sequentially approximately $180 million during the third quarter to $3.2 billion at quarter end primarily due to reduced borrowings under our used vehicle floorplan facilities.
Non-vehicle interest expense decreased slightly to $21.4 million compared to $21.7 million in the third quarter of 2014.
The decrease in interest expense was driven by lower interest rates associated with the refinancing of our credit facility in December 2014 and the establishment of our commercial paper program in May of this year.
At the end of September we had $2.2 billion of non-vehicle debt an increase of $77 million compared to June 30 2015.
Non-vehicle debt includes $435 million of outstanding commercial paper borrowings.
At the end of September we had no amounts drawn under our revolving credit facilities.
I'll also note that we have no material debt maturities until late 2017.
During the third quarter 2015 we repurchased 2.5 million shares for $150 million at an average price of $59.83 per share.
As of October 26 we had approximately $297 million of board authorization remaining for share repurchase and there were approximately 111 million shares outstanding.
This does not include the dilutive impact of stock options.
Our leverage ratio remained at 2.2 times at the end of Q3 as compared to Q2.
The leverage ratio was 2.0 times on a net debt basis including used floorplan availability and our covenant limit is 3.75 times.
Capital expenditures were $27.9 million for the quarter.
Capital expenditures are on an accrual basis and exclude operating lease buyouts and related asset sales.
Our quarter-end cash balance was $64 million which combined with our additional borrowing capacity resulted in total liquidity of $1.8 billion at the end of September.
We continue to use our revolving credit facility as a liquidity backstop for borrowings under our commercial paper program.
As I mentioned a moment ago we had $435 million of commercial paper outstanding at year end which in effect at quarter end – which in effect reduces available liquidity to $1.3 billion.
We continue to leverage our strong operating results and cash flow generation in order to make strategic investments in our business in addition to opportunistic acquisitions and share repurchase.
Now let me turn you over to our Chief Operating Officer Bill Berman.
Thank you Cheryl and good morning everyone.
AutoNation posted record results in the third quarter.
We set an all-time record in EPS from continuing operations.
This was our 20th consecutive quarter of double-digit EPS growth.
Going forward my comments will be on a same-store basis and compared to the period a year ago unless noted otherwise.
Gross profit for variable operations was $467 million up 6%.
Variable gross was $3 282 on a per vehicle retail basis an increase of $103 or 3%.
New and used same-store unit volume was up 3%.
New vehicle revenue for the quarter was $3 billion an increase of $201 million or 7%.
We retailed 87 400 units an increase of 5%.
New vehicle gross profit was $1 877 on a per vehicle retail basis which was relatively flat compared to the same period a year ago.
We are pleased with our new vehicle PVR performance for the quarter.
In the fourth quarter we expect a sequential increase in PVRs in the $200 range due to the seasonal mix shift towards Premium Luxury.
Our pivot away from less profitable third-party lead providers helped offset new PVR competitive pressures.
New vehicle PVRs from our self-generated sales including Customer Financial Services are approximately $800 higher than new vehicle PVRs from third-party sales.
Regarding our digital strategy AutoNation websites currently generate over 25% of our unit sales.
Sales from third-party leads now represent under 9% of our unit sales.
Used vehicle retail revenue for the quarter was $1.1 billion an increase of $24 million or 2% compared to the period a year ago.
Used vehicle retail were relatively flat year-over-year at 55 900.
Used vehicle gross profit was $1 509 on a vehicle retail basis a decrease of $112 or 7%.
As Mike mentioned in the third quarter we set an auto retail industry standard and decided not to sell lease or wholesale any new or used vehicle that has an open recall.
As of September 30 6% of our inventory which represent less than 2% of our new vehicle inventory and approximately 16% of our used vehicle inventory was not available for sale due to open recalls.
We will continue to build our used vehicle inventory levels to ensure we have adequate supply to meet the customer demand.
In the third quarter our used vehicle sales were slowed by our recall policy and we expect to see an impact in the fourth quarter as well.
Putting our customers first is the right to do.
We believe these short-term investments are outweighed by the long-term safety benefits for our customers and support the AutoNation brand promise.
Customer Financial Services gross profit was $1 549 on a per vehicle retail basis an increase of $146 or 10%.
Total gross profit for Customer Financial Services of $222 million was up $26 million or 14% compared to the period a year ago.
In the quarter customer care revenue was an all-time record at $757 million an increase of $44 million or 6%.
We set another all-time record in customer care gross profit of $330 million an increase of $28 million or 9%.
Customer pay gross was $129 million up 7% our 21st consecutive quarterly increase in customer pay gross profit.
Warranty gross was $67 million up 15%.
Collision gross was $30 million up 13%.
In the third quarter we announced the DRIVE PINK campaign from coast to coast.
Our DRIVE PINK campaign ties into the first-ever AutoNation Cure Bowl which will be held at the Orlando Citrus Bowl on December 19 to benefit the Breast Cancer Research Foundation.
AutoNation has pledged to donate $1 million to support BCRF.
I would like to thank our 25 000 associates and our customers for partnering with AutoNation to raise $1 million for Breast Cancer Research.
Finally I would like to welcome the Valley Motors Auto Group associates to the AutoNation family.
I'll now turn the call over to Jon Ferrando Executive Vice President responsible for M&amp;A.
Corporate Development and Human Resources</strong> Thank you Bill and good morning everyone.
We are very excited today to announce the acquisition of the Allen Samuels Auto Group in Texas.
In connection with the transaction we will acquire 12 stores that generate approximately $800 million in annual revenue and retail 19 500 new and used vehicles annually.
Stores are located in the Dallas-Fort Worth Houston Corpus Christi Tyler Ennis and Waco markets.
The franchises represented include Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram Chevrolet Hyundai Mercedes-Benz and Sprinter.
Acquisition is consistent with our strategy of enhancing brand representation and scale in our markets and the strong truck product offering of Allen Samuels makes it a great fit in Texas.
Closing of the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions including manufacturer approval.
We expect the transaction to close in Q1 2016.
Upon completing the Allen Samuels acquisition AutoNation will have 53 stores in the state of Texas.
We look forward to welcoming the more than 1 000 Allen Samuels associates and tens of thousands of new customers to the AutoNation family.
Also in September we completed the previously-announced acquisition of Valley Motors in the Baltimore market and we're on track to complete in Q4 the acquisition of 13 stores in Georgia Alabama and Tennessee from Carl Gregory.
In 2015 AutoNation has announced the acquisition of 33 stores generating approximately $1.7 billion in annual revenue.
And since Q4 2012 AutoNation has announced acquisitions and new franchises awarded by the manufacturers that will generate $3.3 billion in annual revenue once fully operational.
As of today our store portfolio numbers 307 franchises and 240 stores in 15 states representing 35 manufacturer brands.
These numbers will grow to 372 franchises and 265 stores on completion of the Carl Gregory and Allen Samuels acquisition.
Looking forward we will continue to actively pursue acquisitions and new store opportunities with a focus on enhancing brand representation within our existing markets and markets that can be supported by our existing management infrastructure.
We will continue to be selective and prudent with our capital with a focus on investing to produce strong returns and long-term shareholder value.
I will now turn it back to Mike Jackson.
Chief Executive Officer and President</strong> Thank you Jon.
I'd like to thank all our associates for their efforts with our DRIVE PINK campaign which has been a tremendous success and I look forward to seeing all of you at the AutoNation Cure Bowl in December.
Now I'd be delighted to take your questions.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Jamie Albertine from Stifel.
Your line is now open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you and good morning.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning Jamie.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> I was hoping to ask on the used retail side.
Thank you for the additional color with respect to the recall campaign.
If you could maybe tell us a little bit more or shed some more light on what the cadence of used vehicle sales would have looked like ex that campaign.
Is there any granularity you can provide? Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> This is Mike Jackson.
It's very difficult to say what the missed opportunity was.
So I'm very – I'm not enthusiastic about putting an actual number on there other than to say there was an opportunity impact.
Obviously our used vehicle sales were stable.
We had some impact on the gross as it took longer to prepare vehicles to have them frontline ready and there is some disruption.
But we think we're going to work through all those issues over the next quarter and starting sometime in the first half of next year.
Going back to growing the used vehicle business and improving the grosses.
There will be some permanent hard cost in that we're going to increase inventory to allow for – on the new side 10% to 15% of it to be tied up at all time with open recall.
But I think that cost is very manageable.
You can do the math on that.
Building the technology systems to manage it all both to identify the open recalls every day and to manage the process of getting them all repaired that's all underway.
That's again a manageable cost and it's a one-time cost.
But clearly there is some opportunity that we missed in the quarter because of the step that we've taken.
In my view it's hard to put a number on that.
But if you weigh the cost benefit both for what it means for the industry that we're taking a leadership position in something that's clearly a black eye for the industry at the moment namely the recall situation that AutoNation is going to be part of the solution not part of the problem that we put our customers first the safety of our customers first is a clear brand statement.
And we see that the strength of our brand is every year more evident.
And all you have to do is look at on the new vehicle side where we pivoted away from dependence on traffic bought from third parties to relying on our brand and our own sites and investing in those the strength that that gave us to unique brand attribute like the recall policy to positioning in the marketplace that the company really cares about the issue such as the fight against cancer and right now the DRIVE PINK is focused on breast cancer awareness and raising funds to find a cure.
I think all this is very compelling.
And so yes in new cars we have some lost opportunity for a few quarters.
But in the grand scheme of things I think we're on a convincing and compelling road because the hardest thing to do in business is to open a sustainable competitive advantage.
And I think the evidence is becoming clearer and clearer that AutoNation is doing something special.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you Mike.
I appreciate the color and we would agree with the long-term outlook as well.
If I may along those same lines just a quick follow-up.
You've talked about at least in the last couple of years some spending around your digital initiatives coast-to-coast branding.
It seems to us just based on the data that you're providing as it relates to lead generation and so forth that those investments are starting to leverage themselves.
Just some additional color there would be great in terms of the returns you're seeing on those investments and then if at all there are sort of further sort of supplementary investments that you're going to look to make in the near term that we should consider from our modeling? Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Yes.
The third quarter is the proof in the pudding that exactly what you described is happening on the digital side and the fact that if I just look at the new car business which was primarily where Costco and TrueCar was – Cheryl I think it was around 7% of our business? Something like 7% of our new car business we walked away from.
And yet we had an outstanding performance.
So if you want clear evidence that the power of the brand is taking hold and that our digital – the enhancement of our digital sites making it a better customer experience is worthwhile and if you want – to me the biggest proof is look at our front-end gross new vehicles up $33.
So we walk – the business we walked away from with TrueCar and Costco Costco hadn't have – their front-end gross on average was $900 less than the business coming through AutoNation channels.
So we left our most-unprofitable business behind us our most-expensive business to acquire that weakened our brand that did not strengthen our brand.
That's why I think that the third quarter is uncontestable proof that the strategy we've been talking about investing in has been validated and that we're getting tremendous benefit from it.
We have probably on the pure technology side passed the peak investment period but substantial investment is yet to come.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> We appreciate that again.
Thanks and best of luck in the fourth quarter.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of John Murphy from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line now is open.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Hey John.
Just a first question on the recall policy.
I mean sort of the flipside of this is that you're going to have potentially a greater capture of warranty here.
And I'm just curious have you thought about that sort of the offset and how big an offset would that be to the cost of carrying that inventory? Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> John I think the fact that we'll do all that work is true but I really don't think it begins to offset the length of time – additional length of time it takes to get used vehicles frontline ready.
So it's more about the brand and more about being part of the solution for an industry black eye than the fact that we'll actually do more recall work.
There is an issue out there floating that if the new vehicle dealers in the United States are authorized and have the technical skills to make these repairs and completion rates are not acceptable and you hear regulators talking about the fact well if the new vehicle dealers and the manufactures can't figure out how to get these repairs done faster and on higher level we're going to open it up to everyone else.
And I think that would be not a good development on any side.
And I for one believe when you have an issue in the industry be part of the solution.
It's a genuine issue for our customers.
The irony is I think most customers think the repairs are already done.
So that's what's behind it.
Yes we will do additional recall work but it really doesn't offset the disruption and the speed to market of our used vehicles.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And second question I mean obviously you're on a large acquisition tear here but you're also being reasonably aggressive with buying back shares.
And it seems like as Cheryl as you kind of outlined you do have a fair amount of capacity given your current companies to do a lot more.
Just curious how you think about this capital allocation going forward with that much room and really that much opportunity.
I mean it seems like you're pressing the pedal a lot harder than you have in the past and you've done a very good job in the past as well.
But how much more opportunity you think there is in the future? Are we going to be looking at another $1.7 billion in acquired revenue over the next 12 months and another big share buyback in place? I mean how far can you push those? Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> I'll take it first and then I'll turn it over to Cheryl.
The one thing that's not changed in all of this is our threshold on returns.
That remains the same.
We look for acquisitions that are a strategic fit for us fit in our model where we want to be one-third domestic one-third Asian one-third German and our cultural fit with our company.
And certainly these acquisitions are a cultural fit.
Sometimes there is a difference in point of view about the future of a certain company.
I for one am very optimistic and confident about the team that's at Chrysler.
So I have no hesitation buying big (27:37) on Chrysler.
I'm all in.
And so you'll see sometime a streak like that come along.
Now as I said before when we look at 100 deals we maybe do 10.
So there's a lot of discussions a lot of conversations going on and it has to meet all those thresholds to meet that.
We have a level of conversation that we can do a lot of deals next year.
Whether they'll meet all that criteria or not I don't know and what I very much like is keeping the flexibility that I can do zero next year or I can do $2 billion next year.
I'm not going to get – I'm not going nail myself to a cross on that.
It really is dependent.
And same thing on share repurchase it's opportunistic.
If the opportunity is there on both share repurchase and acquisitions am I comfortable with a higher level of leverage? Absolutely.
Cheryl why don't you talk about that? Yeah.
So John one of the things I would point out acquisitions come with EBITDA.
So when we think about just as we've said over the years we look at a balanced approach.
So if a stock or the market's out of favor we'll buy opportunistically.
If the acquisition market is strong we'll buy.
We won't chase acquisition.
So I think if you roll back two years ago we were patient.
We were looking primarily for good dealerships that fit our existing footprint or platforms in other areas that might be a good fit for us.
Right? So we've stayed disciplined.
We haven't chased things internationally.
We continue to stay disciplined.
The nice thing now is we're starting to see some of these deals hit and we've been positioned for this.
So with the strength in our base cash with (29:14) the operating business combined with the EBITDA we get with the acquisitions knowing that we'll in an acquisition increase the EBITDA it gives us a lot of flexibility to do both.
So I think we're in a great situation from a liquidity standpoint.
And from a leverage standpoint this balanced approach gives you an opportunity where some of the cap allocation actually comes with accretive EBITDA as well.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> And John one more factor that you have to put in there today versus the past is the strength of the brand AutoNation.
Think about it.
So we buy the Allen Samuels Group in Texas great name fine everything.
We're going to rebrand those stores AutoNation.
And as good as the legacy names are they're not as good as the brand name AutoNation and all the attributes that come with it.
Also we take all the marketing communication money that's being spent by the Allen Samuels Group not to save but to put behind the AutoNation name.
So then our whole presence in the state of Texas goes up by another factor.
And it begins to feed on itself.
And therefore our confidence that we can execute on our plan to hit our return and the amount of risk involved the risk goes down and the confidence goes up all because of the brand AutoNation.
That's what a brand is doing for us at this point.
Also sellers really like to talk to AutoNation.
They've seen the way we've done deals over the years.
They know we're straightforward cards on the table.
We identify all the issues upfront.
And if we sign a deal there is no drama.
We get to the finish line and we pay what we said we're going to pay.
So you put it all together and I like our position.
Yes.
Great opportunity and low cost capital makes for a really good situation for you.
It's really fantastic.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Yes.
Absolutely.
Just one last question.
I mean as you look at this I mean acquisitions obviously in the last couple of years have ramped up dramatically.
I'm just curious have you done anything with the on-boarding process here? And obviously the industry as well as yourselves has a good track record of integration.
But just as far as the integration process if you could just talk about that maybe Jon on how you're approaching that now and how you're on-boarding all these dealers and really what the opportunity is? Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> If I could I would like to give that over to Bill first in that Bill pioneered our integration strategy and how we execute integration and led the teams and did it very well.
And now he's our Chief Operating Officer so he's not doing just the West Coast but everywhere.
But Bill really built the template that we use today.
So Bill why don't you talk about it.? Okay.
Thank you Mike.
So what we do is we take a very patient and balanced approach to our integration.
Jon and I go in and set the stage initially going into the acquisition stores laying the ground work and foundational components of how the transition is going to take place.
When I talk about patience we don't try to sit here and flip a switch and from one day to the next go from being a legacy store into an AutoNation store.
But over several months we've perfected a process of being able to integrate them into our systems our processes and our pay plans.
And then one unique thing that we're able to do because of our size and our scale is we call it a buddy system probably I could think of a better name.
But we actually get current AutoNation associates from the general manager all the way down to individual department heads to partner in the stores during that transition period so they actually have a peer a mentor on an equal basis to help guide them through the transaction and the transition.
The last I think we're up to 10 stores to 12 stores that we've put on that way.
We've had a very very low turnover rate a high adoption rate and then been able to hit our pro forma target.
That's incredibly helpful.
Good job guys.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Jon would you like to add anything to that? Corporate Development and Human Resources</span></strong> Mike thanks.
No I think the team has just executed extraordinarily well.
And as we track our returns on transactions being able to integrate them smoothly and have that skill set is just one of the many advantages of AutoNation as a buyer.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Thank you Jon.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Pat Archambault from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Well thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Pat.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Good morning Pat.
Yeah.
I guess just let's build on the M&amp;A.
You guys have covered it pretty thoroughly here but maybe just on the environment.
One of the things we've heard from others is that it's getting harder to make deals just when people are looking forward to a 17 million SAAR using 12-month looking historical multiples.
So obviously you've managed to put together some pretty large transactions.
That doesn't seem to be a barrier for you but just wanted your comments on that.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Well I think that's a fair comment that we very much negotiate in addition to all the criteria I called out but the most-important one is with sellers who have made up their mind to sell.
Now people who are checking the market to see if they can get the sun the moon the sky and everything else but it's not really for sale it's just for sale if they can get a too-good-to-be-true price and those discussions are out there.
We identify those rather quickly and move on.
We observe most of the time those businesses don't actually sell.
Occasionally someone will actually step up and pay the price and buy it and that's fine.
Can't do every deal.
That's for sure.
If someone else has a different point of view okay.
That's going to happen and you have to be willing to do that if you're going to stay disciplined on price.
So I think the key point you mentioned is obviously at a 17 million SAAR some people who are maybe sellers not really concluded to sell will check the market.
And you'll hear stories about what they're asking and occasionally somebody will pay the price.
Understood.
I just wanted to go back to the third-party lead discussion again taking some of the feedback from a couple of competitors here.
What they've tend to decide was they needed them just because they had the perception of objectivity.
Right? People want to go to something that's not affiliated with one particular dealer because they feel it will do a better job of comparing competitors and give them an output that they can use that's better some way.
And yet again you've done a really good job of managing to lower your lead providers in spite of that.
And I guess I just wanted to get your thoughts what are you guys doing differently to sort of combat that perception? Maybe it's brand maybe it's technology just curious on that.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Yeah.
So no question we're a company that zigs when everybody else is zagging.
I mean that's indisputable.
Here is the way I think about it.
I came to conclusion several years ago that building a brand with genuine attributes was the only way to compete and win in this marketplace.
And not be disrupted and become a warehouse fulfillment center for others that's really where I didn't want to end up.
So then when you say you have brand the brand has to stand for something.
And you see what we're doing everything from our recall policy to DRIVE PINK to our fair pricing.
And the capabilities on our digital sites they're not informational they're transactional.
It took a lot of money and a lot of effort to make that happen.
So here's my point.
There is a place in the market for third-party lead providers.
There are dealers where it's appropriate that they do business with them.
But here's the way I think about it.
Every dollar I spend on marketing today sells a car today and sells a car tomorrow because I'm building a brand.
And if I'm diverting 30% 40% ultimately 50% of my marketing budget to build somebody else's brand will play out where that ends.
So that's why the third quarter is so important.
We were leading up to it.
It was our pivot.
And clearly it works.
And in my view every year AutoNation is going to be stronger than the year before and all the benefits that comes from that.
And so that gives us a relevancy and approachability and an attractiveness in the marketplace that can cut through all the other choices that consumers have and give us a very interesting and compelling business but it has to be genuine.
And you have to take risk.
You have to take short-term disruption in order to get that differentiation.
And we are doing that.
Yeah.
It's clear that that looks like it's certainly paying off at this point.
Is there – I guess you said you're down to 9% of sales with traditional lead providers.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Yeah.
Is there a point where that can get to zero? Is there always going to be a role for them with you guys? Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> So here's the next discussion with the 9%.
If they provide a role for the AutoNation brand with on their site we can have a good partnership.
As long as I can raise the flag of my brand on their site in a compelling way we can have a partnership because I'm building my brand.
If the rules of the game are that hey listen you pay me for traffic and we're not talking about AutoNation and what you are then that's going to be a more difficult conversation.
So those negotiations will probably take the next quarter or so.
And when I see how all that goes I can probably give you a pretty good idea of where it's going to settle down settle in.
And if I have an appropriate positioning for my brands then I'm really going to view them not as a third-party lead provider I'm going to view them as a partner with AutoNation.
I'm looking for a win-win partnership.
And if I find that we can have a long-term relationship.
Understood.
Well appreciate the color.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Thank you.
Next question comes from the line of Paresh Jain from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is now open sir.
Good morning everyone.
Going back to acquisitions Mike it seems like you're seeing deals come to you a bit more.
Do you feel a flat year-on-year stock can actually bring more deals to you and more than offset any organic growth slowdown in you? Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Predicting forward deals is again not a road I want to go down.
I really want to have the flexibility that when the – and I've said it in the past when the opportunity was there we were going to move.
We're not afraid to increase leverage on the company to move.
We'll move.
If they're not attractive deals they don't strategically fit it's not a cultural fit the price is too high then we're not going to do the deal.
And it's very difficult to predict what's even going to happen next quarter or next year.
We have a lot of interesting discussions ongoing.
I hope to have additional deals to do but you never know.
Got it.
Just a quick follow-up for Jon why gain more exposure to Texas at this point given there could be some concerns around the retail environment or the consumer sentiment there? Corporate Development and Human Resources</span></strong> Yeah.
Paresh Texas is an excellent long-term market for us.
So we're very comfortable operating in Texas.
We've been there for a long time.
Our stores performed very well in those markets and the fit was just outstanding in terms of the markets and the store locations and the brands in particular with Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram and Chevrolet.
Allen Samuels offers a strong truck portfolio that fits very well into Texas.
And then from a cultural fit standpoint that Mike talked about and Bill as well on the on-boarding it was just an ideal fit for us.
So there were a lot of factors that came together and we're very optimistic about operating in Texas long term.
Got it.
Thank you.
Next question comes from the line of Michael Montani from Evercore ISI.
Your line is now open.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
Hey Mike.
Just wanted to follow up on the M&amp;A vein and ask about why the deals are kind of coming to fruition now? Is there perhaps some softening on seller expectations or do you see incremental synergies that you can get given the progress on the brand Mike or is it a combination of the two? Just some added color there would be helpful.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> I think it's a combination of the two and I would also observe of the $1.7 billion of deals we've announced for this year fully $1 billion is Chrysler Dodge Jeep and Ram.
And I think there may be a difference in point of view about the long-term outlook.
Can't say for sure but it is $1 billion out of the $1.7 billion.
And it's a clear expression of my confidence and optimism about those brands in the U.S.
I love the fact that it's all four brands under one roof and that Chrysler Corporation continues to differentiate and make genuine differences in those brands.
I've seen the product portfolio for the next several years.
It's very compelling.
But there are those who observe that Chrysler Corporation has been a boom and bust.
And if you're thinking about building something maybe while everything is fine it's a good time to do it.
So I think that's a factor of $1 billion out of $1.7 billion.
Great.
Thanks.
And then traffic to your website there was some concern that maybe ending the TrueCar partnership could dampen that.
But perhaps Mike if you or Bill could just discuss are you actually getting increased share of voice and advertising as your brand grows? And how you're actually seeing kind of visibility to the brand evolving? Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Yeah.
To be clear the TrueCar traffic had nothing to do with our website.
That's traffic that those leads go directly to our dealerships and we basically are paying for the traffic.
It has nothing to do with AutoNation brand and nothing to do with AutoNation sites.
And that was my issue.
And at the end of the day as you heard me say in order to actually close transactions for that traffic you were really enter a reverse auction process with competitors that generally led to an unsatisfactory result for us.
So it's two completely different things.
So I assure you the fact that we've gone from years ago that the AutoNation sites generated less than 10% of the business to over 25% of the business there's a dramatic increase in traffic to AutoNation sites and it's a better experience for the customers and a higher close rate and a better financial result for the company.
So it's a win-win-win strategy.
Got it.
Just lastly on service which was up 9% on the gross profit side can you give any detail there about what you're seeing in terms of transaction size driving that versus transaction count actually driving the gross profit dollars? Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Bill you have any observations there? Mike could you repeat it one more time? I could barely hear you.
Sorry.
The question was just the gross profit dollar comp being up 9% and service was quite strong.
So I guess I'm wondering are you seeing increased gross profit dollars per repair job or are you seeing just an increase in the number of jobs that's driving it? And maybe how that plays into actually retention rates? No I got the question Mike.
Thanks.
It's basically on three different levels.
Our traffic volume of RO count coming into all of our stores is increasing.
Our gross per RO our gross per transaction is increasing as well as we've been able to leverage our margin a little bit as well.
All three of those have contributed to the growth.
Great.
Thank you.
Next question comes from the line Michael Ward from Sterne Agee.
Your line is now open.
Thank you very much.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Mike.
Just a couple of things.
First of all do you have any regional feedback on sales that we've seen? Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Bill do you want to talk about regional performance? All three of our regions are performing at an exceptionally high level.
I'd call out standout performance out of our Eastern region primarily driven by Florida.
But all three regions are performing pretty close to an equal level and at a very high level as well.
Okay.
Thank you.
When you – I think you call it your Fast Lane the beta test you're doing in Florida that I guess enhances or it's an extension of your digital marketing program.
Is that correct? And do you have any feedback on how that's going? Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Bill do you have anything on that? Once again I can barely hear you Michael.
So was that on service or on sales? I'm sorry.
I think you call it your Fast Lane the extension of the digital marketing.
I think you're doing a beta test down in Florida? Well we're doing two different tests.
We have AutoNation Express which is primarily driven on the sales side of the business.
We've expanded the test to parts of Southern California as well as South Florida and initial results have been very strong.
Mike talked earlier about building our brand having transactional websites being able to drive traffic to it.
So far all the results have been positive.
Okay.
And just as it relates to some of the digital marketing national branding is that a key factor as you're looking at M&amp;A? Is that one of the things? Because it seems a lot of us are focused on there's a spike up in M&amp;A activity.
And I think there are probably a lot of reasons for it but is one of them the strength of the national branding and the digital marketing that you offer? And does that mean the transaction is easier? Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Yeah.
I sort of alluded to that earlier.
I don't think there is any question about it.
And I think that's on both sides.
Sellers of course they're concerned about price but they are very concerned about what happens to the business that they built and to their associates that have been very loyal to them in building this enterprise.
And there is a – they have a great – I have a feeling that with AutoNation acquiring and putting the AutoNation brand on it and all the capabilities we bring to the table and the career opportunities we offer their associates they really feel that not only are they getting a fair price but they're really doing a right thing for their associates.
And they see and feel the complexity both from the third party which in many ways is like competition and how disruptive they are the demands of the manufacturer the amount of capital required the amount of expertise required.
And they see that we provide all that.
So we're really a take-home for the business they built and the associates they care about that we are giving them a bright future.
And that is part of the equation no question.
And it seems like you're getting choice properties as well.
And just when you look at where they're located and the size of the transaction it looks like they're probably sought after.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> We are not doing transactions for transaction's sake.
So it depends on (51:14)...
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> We're very patient we've been very patient for a very long time.
But I've always said when the opportunity is there we will move and we're in one of those periods.
And if you're asking me what is different? I think your question is on the point.
If you really look at this...
(51:30) with that Mike.
That's for sure.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> This AutoNation brand that we're building coast to coast no competitor is even trying to match it and it really differentiates us in a way that's never been done before.
And a lot of benefit comes with that dealing with the third party setting the table for acquisitions winning in the marketplace building relationships with customer that's not – that can be long term.
Thank you very much for your feedback and time.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of David Lim from Wells Fargo Securities.
Your line is now open.
Great.
Good morning.
First I wanted to applaud AutoNation on the recall policy great to see a dealer group doing that.
The question that I have this morning is when it comes to the differential of your in-house – the website and I think you mentioned it was maybe an $800 or $900 difference.
Can you sort of box where you're getting the advantage versus a third party? I mean obviously there is as you said maintenance fees and commission fees.
But I just want to get an idea of what are the other categories that are out there.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Cheryl.
I'll let Cheryl take the question.
Yeah.
One of the other things I'd say too is not only is it on the front-end margins.
So as Mike mentioned on new vehicle margins they're stronger when we generate those directly but also we get benefit from Customer Financial Services.
So when you blend those two together on average it's $800 or higher on a PVR basis combined direct versus using third parties who tend to have different customers that are targeting the business.
Got you.
Got you.
And then on the – and I wanted to sort of dive a little bit into just M&amp;A in general for you guys.
What's the balancing act between if it's a good fit price or if it's even might I say a turnaround story? I mean how does that all sort of fit into the overall equation? I mean if it's a really really good deal yet let's say culturally it's not 100% good fit how do you guys balance all that out? Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> We are very reluctant to do transactions that are not a cultural fit.
To buy a business to shut it down and rebuild this from ground up is not something that we're enthusiastic to do.
So we passed on a lot of deals that we just didn't think we could integrate without tremendous disruption.
So Jon why don't you talk about our criteria? Corporate Development and Human Resources</span></strong> Yeah we look at – we've got brand market return criteria.
So we're looking for excellent retail locations.
As Mike said we're looking for a good cultural fit so that we can successfully onboard employees and transition the business profitably and successfully.
We certainly got our return criteria so it's got to meet our financial return metrics.
We're looking at the demographics in the market.
And if it's a good brand fit for that market so buying again Chrysler and Chevy in Texas with the pickup truck mix is ideal.
Similarly last year in Bellevue Washington we bought a Mercedes-Benz Audi and Porsche stores.
So that brand mix and cultural fit was excellent.
So we're balancing all of those factors now have to come together.
And that feeds back into what Mike said earlier as well that if you look at our batting average you want to look at it that way it's about 100.
We'll look at 10 deals and pass on nine that don't meet our criteria and we'll do the one deal.
And we feel like the last three years if you look at the mix of acquisitions that we've done they fit very well across all of our screening criteria.
And we're very happy with that.
And we'll continue to be disciplined in that way.
Last question for Mike Jackson.
What are you thinking from an overall industry standpoint sales going to in 2016 and if I may sort of push you a little bit maybe even 2017? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer and President</span></strong> Yeah.
As you all recall I think it was after the second quarter of 2014 I forecasted 17 million vehicles for this year.
And it's clear now we'll break through 17 million.
So I don't know whether it's going to be 17.2 million 17.2 million doesn't matter.
It's going to be great.
And I think next year we'll definitely break through 17 million again.
Whether it exceeds this year comes out the same or is it a little bit more I can't say today.
But I think even with somewhat higher interest rates if it's 100 basis points next year and that's still an if at this point but let's say all-in it's 100 basis points that's $15 a month for our customers that can easily be dealt with.
You combine that with the still pent-up demand the products and the manufacturers are absolutely sensational.
I see no sign that gasoline is going back to $3.50 next year.
So I'm very optimistic about 2016.
I think it'll be over 17 million again.
Great.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer and President</strong> Thank you everyone for your time today.
Really enjoyed discussing our business.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you all for joining.
Welcome to AutoNation’s Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen only mode.
After the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
Today’s conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I will turn the call over to Andrew Wamser Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations for AutoNation.
Thank you operator and good morning everyone and welcome to AutoNation’s fourth quarter and full year 2015 conference call and webcast.
Leading our call today will be Mike Jackson our Chairman CEO and President; Cheryl Miller our Chief Financial Officer; Bill Berman our Chief Operating Officer; and Jon Ferrando our EVP responsible for M&amp;A.
Following their remarks we will open up the call for questions.
Robert Quartaro and I will also be available by phone following the call to address any additional questions that you may have.
Before we begin let me read our brief statement regarding forward-looking comments.
Certain statements and information on this call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve risks which may cause the actual results or performance to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Additional discussions of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are contained in our press release issued earlier today and our SEC filings including our most-recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K.
Certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules will be discussed on this call.
Reconciliations are provided in our press release and on our website located at investors.autonation.com.
And now I’ll turn the call over to AutoNation’s Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President Mike Jackson.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we reported adjusted EPS from continuing operations of $0.96 a 6% decrease as compared to EPS from continuing operations of $1.02 for the same period in the prior year.
For the full year adjusted EPS from continuing operations was $3.98 up 14% over prior year.
Fourth quarter 2015 revenue totaled $5.3 billion compared to $5 billion in the year-ago period an increase of 6% driven by stronger performance in all of our business sectors.
Total gross profit was $812 million compared to $784 million in the year-ago period an increase of 4%.
Operating income was $200 million compared to $227 million in the year-ago period a decrease of 12%.
In the fourth quarter AutoNation’s retail new vehicle unit sales increased 4% overall or 1% on a same-store basis.
The fourth quarter industry sales environment was more push than pull resulting in significant new and used vehicle margin declines on a combined basis of $217 per vehicle retail which is 11% lower than the fourth quarter of 2014.
During the quarter we experienced particular weakness in Premium Luxury which had a significant impact on our fourth quarter financial results.
We have begun and will continue through the first quarter to take the necessary steps to align our cost inventory and pricing strategy to the current market.
Revenue for the full year was $20.9 billion up 9% over prior year.
Total gross profit was $3.3 billion compared to $3 billion in the year ago period an increase of 9%.
Operating income for the full year was $873 million an increase of 6% over prior year.
Our primary assumption for 2016 industry new vehicle unit sales is above 17 million for the year.
I now turn over to our Chief Financial Officer Cheryl Miller.
Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
For the fourth quarter we reported adjusted net income from continuing operations of $107 million or $0.96 per share versus net income of $117 million or $1.02 per share during the fourth quarter of 2014 a 6% decrease on a per share basis.
Our fourth quarter 2015 results exclude a non-cash impairment charge of $9.6 million after tax or $0.09 per share related to the franchise rights assets of our Volkswagen stores.
There were no adjustments to net income in the fourth quarter of the prior year.
Revenues during the quarter increased $292 million or 6% compared to the prior year and gross profit improved $29 million or 4%.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross profit was 70% for the quarter which represents a 210 basis point increase compared to the year-ago period.
Due to the gross profit pressure in the fourth quarter SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross profit did not benefit from the normal seasonal strength in Premium Luxury vehicle sales.
As we continue to adjust our cost structure to the current environment our SG&amp;A as a percentage of gross is expected to remain under pressure.
The provision for income tax in the quarter was $61.3 million or 38.5%.
Net new vehicle floorplan was a benefit of $15.1 million which was relatively flat compared to the fourth quarter of 2014 as the increased floorplan balances were largely offset by higher sales and increased floorplan assistance per unit.
Floorplan debt increased sequentially approximately $523 million during the fourth quarter to $3.7 billion at quarter end primarily due to increase inventory balances.
Non-vehicle interest expense increased to $26.5 million compared to $22.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2014.
The $4.4 million increase in interest expense was driven by the issuance of our senior unsecured notes in September which have higher rates in our revolving credit facility as well as higher average debt balances.
The increased senior notes rates was partially offset by lower interest rate associated with our credit facility refinancing and the issuance of our commercial paper program.
At the end of December we had $2.4 billion of non-vehicle debt an increase of $162 million compared to September 30 2015.
Non-vehicle debt include $600 million of outstanding commercial paper borrowings.
At the end of December we had no amounts drawn under our revolving credit facility.
As a consequence our non-vehicle debt fixed to floating mix was approximately 75% fixed and 25% floating.
I will also note that we have no material debt maturities until late 2017.
For the full year 2015 we repurchased 3.9 million shares for $235 million at an average price of $60.49 per share.
As of January 26 AutoNation had approximately $296 million of Board authorization remaining for share repurchase and there were approximately 111 million shares outstanding.
This does not include the dilutive impact of stock options.
Our leverage ratio increased to 2.3 times at the end of Q4 compared to 2.2 times at the end of Q3.
The leverage ratio is 2.1 times on a net debt basis including used floorplan availability and our covenant limit is 3.75 times.
Capital expenditures were $75.3 million for the quarter.
Capital expenditures are on an accrual basis excluding operating refiles and related asset sales.
Our quarter end cash balance was $74 million which combined with our additional borrowing capacity resulted in total liquidity of $1.7 billion at the end of December.
We continue to use the revolving credit facility as a liquidity backstop for borrowings under our commercial paper program.
As I mentioned a moment ago we have $600 million of outstanding commercial paper at quarter end which in effect reduces our available liquidity to $1.1 billion.
Looking forward we are focused on aligning our cost structure to better adjust to current market conditions and continuing to prudently allocate capital.
Now let me turn you over to our Chief Operating Officer Bill Berman.
Thanks Cheryl and good morning.
My comments today will be on a same-store basis as compared to the prior year unless noted otherwise.
Gross profit for variable operations was $450 million down 4%.
Variable gross was $3 350 on a per vehicle retail basis a decrease of $125 or 4%.
New and used same-store unit volume was flat compared to the fourth quarter of 2014.
New vehicle revenue for the quarter was $3 billion an increase of $61 million or 2%.
We retailed 82 900 units an increase of 1%.
New vehicle gross profit was $2 018 on a per vehicle retail basis which was down 10% compared to the same period a year ago.
In the fourth quarter we experienced a push rather than a pull environment.
We saw a margin compression particularly in Premium Luxury segment this offset the seasonal sequential increase in PVRs we typically expect in the fourth quarter.
Coupled with the margin pressure in the fourth quarter we also began to see a slowdown in Texas due to collapsing energy prices which are hurting the local economy.
In Texas the new and used unit sales were down compared to the fourth quarter of 2014.
In Florida we continue to experience growth across the state new and used units were up for the quarter compared to the fourth quarter of 2014.
As Mike mentioned earlier we are taking steps to align our cost inventory and pricing strategy with the current market conditions.
Used vehicle retail revenue for the quarter was $1 billion an increase of $22 million or 2% compared to the period a year ago.
Used vehicles retail were down 2% year-over-year at 52 000.
Used unit gross profit was $1 436 on a per vehicle retail basis a decrease of $246 or 15%.
As of yearend approximately 6% of our inventory was not available for sale due to open recalls.
The held inventory represent less than 2% of our new vehicle inventory and approximately 16% of our used vehicle inventory.
As we stated in the third quarter we did see an impact on our used vehicle sales due to our recall policy.
We continue to implement systems and processes in support of our efforts to ensure no vehicle with an open recall is retailed.
We continue to live in the long-term safety benefits for our customers far out way in a short-term impact to our results and further support the AutoNation brand promise.
Customer Financial Services gross profit was $1 556 on a per vehicle retail basis an increase of $109 or 8%.
Total gross profit for Customer Financial Services was $210 million was up $40 million or 7% compared to the period a year ago.
In the quarter customer care revenue was $751 million an increase of $28 million or 4% customer care gross profit was $326 million an increase of $24 million or 8%.
Customer pay gross was $129 million up 9% warranty gross was $66 million up 7% collision gross was $31 million up 11%.
Finally I’d like to welcome the Renault Honda associates to the AutoNation family and thank all of our over 26 000 associates for their hard work and dedication.
I’ll now turn the call over to Jon Ferrando Executive Vice President responsible for M&amp;A.
Thank you Bill and good morning everyone.
In the fourth quarter of 2015 we completed the previously announced acquisitions of 13 stores in Georgia Alabama and Tennessee and a Honda store in Seattle-Bellevue market.
For the full year 2015 AutoNation completed the acquisition of 22 stores generating approximately $1 billion in annual revenue.
In the first quarter of 2016 we are on track to complete the previously announced acquisition of the 12 store Allen Samuels Auto Group in Texas which generates approximately $800 million in annual revenue.
As of today our store portfolio number 342 franchises and 254 stores in 15 states representing 35 manufacturer brands.
These numbers will grow to 373 franchises and 266 stores upon completion of the Allen Samuels acquisition.
Looking forward we will continue to actively pursue acquisitions and new store opportunities with a focus on enhancing brand representation within our existing markets and markets that can be supported by our existing management infrastructure.
We will continue to be selective and prudent in our capital with a focus on investing to produce strong returns and long-term shareholder value.
I’ll now turn it back to Mike Jackson.
Thank you Jon.
2015 was a historic year for AutoNation we celebrate the sale of our 10 million vehicle.
We implemented our industry-leading recall policy.
We acquired 51 franchises with approximately $1 billion in annual revenue and we built our brand and kicked off our drive pink campaign from coast-to-coast.
We are now happy to take any of your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Brett Hoselton with KeyBanc.
You may now proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning.
This is Irina Hodakovsky on for Brett Hoselton.
My question for you is on the vehicle segment it appears the underperformance is all in November and some improvement is evident in December.
Wondering if you can tell us what happened in November and what did you do differently in December to get some improvement? And just coincidentally it appears that in November is when you closed this very large acquisition did that have anything to do with it or is it something else? This is Mike Jackson.
First I think comparisons to the industry reporting calendar and our GAAP results are difficult to do.
So overall on an industry calendar we were plus 3% same-store sale for the quarter and we really don’t know what the industry was in retail but something higher than that I think is reasonable to assume.
We are over weighted in Texas and in Premium Luxury compared to the industry and that would be the explanation for any gap in our performance.
And as far as the acquisition being disruptive no impact whatsoever.
Thank you.
Our next question is Michael Montani with Evercore ISI.
You may proceed.
Hey guys good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
I guess I wanted to ask about was the decline in gross profit per unit that we’ve seen is this symptomatic of a need to reset gross profit per unit from $2 000 to $1 500 or $1 600 say or is this more of an imbalance in supply and demand that can be worked through and is there anything you can point to in history Mike to just help us kind of see how this could work itself out? Well I think any time the industry moves from a period of exceptional growth secures of it to beginning to plateau and we see significantly higher inventories year-over-year that’s going to put pressure on front end gross.
So we’ve taken steps to begin to bring our inventories in line obviously there is a lot of lead time on our orders that will see some progress in the first quarter but it will probably take till the end of the second quarter.
But even after we do that if the industry overproduces and keeps inventory at a high level that means the overall environment is still very difficult and very competitive even though we may have our house in order within this.
It certainly puts us in a better position but it’s not a full answer.
So that remains to be seen.
I think if you back to the period of 2000 through 2006 the industry plateau at an average of 17 million units a year but clearly overproduced and had high inventories which put tremendous pressure on manufacturers resell values and retailers’ front end gross.
So I really hope we don’t repeat that history and that we go a new way this time.
All right thank you.
And if I could just ask a little clarity on the inventory build year-over-year in days or percentage terms and also on the gross profit pressure could you just parse out for us a little bit how that looked by segment in terms of Premium versus Midline import in domestics just to help us quantify? Mike this is Bill Berman.
So first off if you look at it for in the first quarter basis of this year we’re going to be approximately 13 days higher in our day supply inventory.
When you look at our total units that was about 14 000 additional units off of which right now relatively a flat marketplace.
As far as breaking it out by segments where we’ve seen pressure primarily on our Premium Luxuries a little bit on import and domestic for the most part is in line.
Thank you.
Our next question John Murphy with Bank of America.
You may proceed.
Good morning guys.
Good morning John.
Just a first question kind of follow-up on the inventory I mean if you look at the aggregate in the industry in the D3 and even the J3 there was a small very tiny increase on absolute basis year-over-year in the fourth quarter Premium Luxury seems to be where the focus is.
So I was just curious I mean I know you can’t necessarily get into specific companies but as we look at this do you see the elections of 2000 and 2006 that some in the D3 were committing really reemerging year or is what we’re seeing at the end of last year and the beginning of this year more a function of what’s going on purely in the Premium Luxury and your comments to try to make sure that it doesn’t reemerge at the D3? Yeah I think it’s more in the second I think domestics are very well positioned to exceed in 2016 almost all the excess inventories in cars not in trucks to the stand that you have strength in trucks and can produce more trucks you want to drive in 2016.
I think Sergio's decision to switch over factories from our production to truck production shows you the sense that the consumer has that they are totally committed to cheap gas and to trucks it’s really become a strategic question not a tactical question.
So wherever you stand on trucks is your position of strength in the marketplace.
So that’s very different than 2000 in the domestic -- from a starting point the domestics are in a very good position.
I would have hoped during this period of growth the industry could have gotten some of its benchmarks more accurate so that when we have a GAAP conversation versus an industry conversation it could be more meaningful.
Here I point to the obsolete industry calendar that moves days around willy-nilly in a -- it was originally done because we used to mail sales report in we’re in digital age when the month ends she closed the month digitally.
I also have a long standing issue with the day supply calculation in that fleet sales accounted and retail selling rates which is a major distortion.
So pointing to industry figures and try to figure out what’s going on is not always helpful and making a comparison than to GAAP figures gets particularly difficult.
So those issues are not resolved they still sit there but I think to your principle point the industry is in much better shape today than it was in 2000 both from a structural point of view and that we’re at the beginning of this plateau and there is still time to adjust there is a particular overhang in Premium Luxury which will take some time to work through.
Okay that’s helpful.
And second question on capital allocation I mean obviously the biggest thing that’s changed in really that a December the current period is that your stock is down about 35%.
So it’s 35% cheaper and looks fairly attractive at least from where I see it and I’m just curious as you think about cap allocation in 2016 have you seen sort of a similar adjustment in the private market on acquisitions where multiples and valuations have come down fairly significantly or as we look at ‘16 and if your stock doesn’t recover meaningfully from here mean does this just make your stock that’s much more attractive relative to the acquisitions and we just see you buying back more of your own stock as oppose to making acquisitions? So John our philosophy remains unchanged.
We first invest in our existing stores our digital capability and our brand that’s our first call on capital that will remain.
And then we look at the opportunity to purchase our own company through share repurchase versus acquisition that fit with our long-term plan.
And obviously than there is a competition between the return of buying our own stock and what we can buy in the marketplace.
The marketplace as far as acquisition usually takes longer for sellers to come to any new reality so I think it’s too soon to expect any seismic shift there.
So that would make the decision at the moment a bit easier or which way to go.
And I will rest on our track record that we’ve done a very good job on capital allocation over the last 15 years.
Sounds good.
And just lastly on SG&amp;A flexibility I mean if we see this pressure persist for a couple of quarters I mean what kind of buckets or actions in SG&amp;A do you think you could really sort of react reasonably quickly and maybe if it persist even longer over the longer term time frame.
So John we’re still forecasting a market over $17 million so we still need the infrastructure and the staffing to perform at that level.
However since we are not forecasting extraordinary growth in 2016 we will adjust inventories and overtime that will give us more control over the balance between -- to be able to make decision between volume and price.
You’re heavy on inventory you can’t make a decision you just have to discount till you find the point that the product moves.
Second we can adjust marketing.
Again we’re spending assuming growth didn’t happened that’s fully my responsibility for the fourth quarter but now we will adjust and that could be brought in line relatively quickly.
Cheryl you want to make any other comment on cost.
Yeah John as you know in this type of decline it’s margin compression so we watch the things where we need to be there to support volume.
But of course as you know based on our track record of running lean we’re going to evaluate everything.
So I think the biggest bucket if you look at the quarter compensation works pretty well.
So I think we did a good job there marketing as Mike mentioned we’re reassessing for Q1 in light of the current environment and then we’re picking through the different cost buckets to make sure we’re focused on pure investment and things that add value for today and for the long-term.
So we’ll go through kind of the heavy grinding and all the other buckets to make sure we’re as tight as possible heading into Q2.
Great thank you very much.
Thank you.
Next question is Paresh Jain with Morgan Stanley.
You may proceed.
Good morning everyone.
Just a couple of questions first when we look at the blended GPU that is still pretty close to record levels and obviously F&amp;I is a big piece of it now.
Is that also something that is driving more aggressive behavior on new and used GPUs from dealer? And the reason I ask is -- so if you think beyond near-term makes an inventory issues and assuming those can reverse couldn’t we see a continuation of this new and used GPUs from here on? Hi Paresh it’s Bill.
Our CFS gross profits definitely are strong and they do weigh into our decisions on how we accept deals to Mike’s point trying to find the balance between our volume and pricing.
So it does play into it.
But it is not a contributing factor to the compression that we are seeing on PVRs right now.
Understood.
And a quick follow-up on F&amp;I.
We have the Honda dealer reserve solution last year with CFPB has there been any impact on F&amp;I per vehicle on those transaction and are you seeing a similar level of push for other lenders to adopt that solution? Our Honda stores are performing extremely well and like Mike said on the last call I think what Honda did was fair and balance to the marketplace and has performed well both to the consumer as well as to our stores.
There has been talk of others but nothing concrete.
Got it.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Brian Sponheimer with Gabelli Company.
You may begin.
Hi good morning.
Thank you for having me on.
Just I guess to start Mike when you called out some of the industry problems.
What’s been their reaction particularly with some of the auto makers that are having some of the inventories used to what you said are they aware of it or are they buying to it is as we’ve seen 15 years ago the D3 having that issue? It’s very interesting and I express my plateau point of view of [indiscernible] the first week of January and then got on the playing once the Detroit Motor Show.
I would say the overall discussion agreed that a six years of rapid growth are over.
But the industry is plateauing at a very high very acceptable level and no one is really saying this thing is going to blow by 18 million 18.5 million or something within the industry.
I know there is some others out there that have a point of view that that’s going to happen.
If that were to happen I can tell you this it would take significant price action that would be pulling forward future business from my point of view.
Now unfortunately every executive is very confident and optimistic about their position in the marketplace and they have plans for growth in 2016 So if you add up everyone’s individual plan you have this classic situation that everyone is going to take share.
But that means they set the plans to run to go out and achieve that.
So while they’re being conservative and disciplined in saying the total market is probably mid 17 million plus or minus 1 000 units we’ll take that right away we are going to take a bigger piece of the pie.
So I think that’s then going to be incumbent upon retailers to really push back where appropriate and say that’s more than this marketplace is going to take particularly on the car side to the extent you can increase production on trucks that’s fine.
But it’s got to be substitution for cars.
It’s not incremental business I think that’s a solid plan.
I think if retailers push back on very aggressive production plans and by the way we are being given very aggressive stair steps targets.
Also which again indicates that individually they are planning for the significant growth.
So the ball is kicked debate is under way and hopefully the industry can manage it successfully because it’s going -- the challenge for the industry I see over the next several year is we can have multiple years above 17 million with the pent up demand that’s out there.
But in a plateau new vehicle markets can we grow earnings and the quality of earnings or are we going to have a share fight that results in ruing its incentives for the manufacturers and for retailers.
I think that’s sort of a line we’re trying to walk down at the moment.
I appreciate all that color.
I guess my second question is little more short-term in nature.
There is a particular OEM that three years ago went from 36 month lease to a 39 month lease.
So theoretically you’re going to see more trade-ins come in and starting in February-March or March and April.
How much is that needed to kind of cleanup this inventory issue on the car side? Well I think first on the consumers’ commitment to pay for the car loans whether it’s lease to finance.
It’s unwavering I see absolutely no sign of difficulties in auto finance.
I think it’s all being run very prudently in a disciplined way.
So no alarm bells there.
There are I think a million more vehicles coming off of lease this year than the prior year that doesn’t necessarily mean all those individuals are going to go into new cars.
They could go into CPO or something else.
So you can’t just add that to the top-line in my opinion.
I appreciate that.
Thank you for having me on.
Thank you.
And next question is Rod Lache with Deutsche Bank.
You may begin.
Good morning everybody.
I appreciate that you guys have done a phenomenal job of adjusting to all kinds of scenarios that have come at you over the past few years.
But I’d love to hear how you feel from your perspectives how consumers would be broadly affected by scenario with passenger car trading values falling.
You did say obviously the market today is trucks but passenger cars were higher percentage of the market years ago.
So I would imagine that there are higher percentage of trade-ins.
How does that affect them how do you see that effecting your volumes and margins and deals that you’re putting together when you do take trades? So I think the biggest threat to used car values are additional incentives from the manufacturers or additional discounts from us that’s the big picture issue.
So it’s very interesting our fourth quarter performance where by manufacturers increasing incentives by $250 a car us increasing our discount by $220 a car that had an immediate impact on our used car values.
And then we have to discount anything that was relatively new versus the new vehicle on the showroom floor.
So it’s a double impact it impacted our new vehicle gross margin it impact our used vehicle gross margin.
So that’s the biggest issues and that’s my greatest concern about over production and you could say Mike would you care for the manufacturers increase their incentives significantly you’ll just sell more new cars.
Well it pulls the rug out from underneath the value of my used car inventory.
And also to your point it really disappoint your existing owner base your most loyal customer because you’ve depreciated ultimately the value of their trade-in.
So it’s really a loose-loose it’s loose in the short-term and is a loose in the long-term.
And I really would not want to see incentives go beyond on the manufacture level they are about 10% suggested retail price at the moment.
So we’re approaching double digits and I really hope we don’t go beyond that.
Now to your point of mix this mix adjustment cars versus trucks has been going on.
So it’s not a shock it’s been -- we’ve gone from 45% trucks a few years ago to 60% trucks in the month of December.
It’s been a journey there has been adjustments along the way.
So I think that’s more baked in the cake at the moment than a new development.
So it’s more where our incentives going where our inventories production going and what will that mean to resale values is my number one concern.
Okay.
Just to clarify this is a scenario that you’re sort of warning of prospectively it’s not something that you’re seeing affecting your ability to pull together deals or do volume at the moment is that correct? Yeah that’s correct.
And lastly clearly credit availability has been very good over the past years and as you said there is no alarm bells in terms of any external data on loss frequency or anything like this that would be of concern.
So it does look like it’s been somewhat disciplined but we are starting to see some spread widening as we look at sub-prime ABS and even some CDS spreads for some of the lenders.
Was wondering if you saw any evidence of that flowing through to the market or do you think that this is something that could have some impact on credit availability or the S&amp;I business? So first I think the widening of the spreads is unrelated to the customer’s ability to pay whether the customer is paying or not I think it’s other factor.
Cheryl you want to talk about that.
Yeah what I would say you’ve seen some ABS widening and that’s the result of just some broader widening in the bond market and certainly that’s around the phase that they play in but I would say not everybody funds in ABS.
So a lot of people balance sheet find particularly if you look at leasing not everybody funds on that basis and they have broader large balance sheet for their blended funding rate.
So I would say it’s one factor we’ve seen it more in sub-primes than in regular and I don’t think it’s going to be a material driver the rates provided to customers.
So you’re not seeing any effect in the retail world from this? We’re not seeing a particular increase in rates related to the ABS phenomena keeping in mind that post 2008-2009 the ABS market is a smaller market than it was at that time particularly in auto.
Yeah I mean it’s not just ABS or some like you said it’s a fixed income phenomena high yields unsecured all kinds of things are being affected… And I think the percentage of -- and the OEM post -- the OEM cap is posted 2008 and ‘09 we’re very careful about diversifying the funding sources away from that one particular phenomena.
So I would say that type of widening today that you see in certain tranches in sub-prime ABS is much less impactful than it would have been back in 2008-2009 intentionally because they no longer wanted to be reliant on that type of funding source solely.
Great that’s helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our final question from Brett Hoselton with KeyBanc.
You may begin.
Thank you.
This is Irina again on for Brett Hoselton.
A follow-up question to our earlier discussion Mike you mentioned you are overweight in Texas under was beginning -- you just saw some decline can you tell us how much Texas declined and what is your exposure there? I think Texas is about 24% 25% of our business for 2016 so that’s a significant overweight as you know our three big states are California Texas and Florida.
Florida is absolutely blooming Texas is under stress we had a decline in Texas on same-store sales unit of 2% but also tell you it took a lot more discount to get that done in Texas.
So we had a significant impact on the bottom-line.
Thank you very much.
And then the last question for you a little bit on the used side and the recall initiative naturally as expected that is having some impact on your volume wondering as you’re going through it what are you finding now? How is it tracking relative to your expectations is it better or worse you didn’t really have a whole lot you anticipated or knew in terms of long-term cost implications.
What are you learning as you go through this? So on our recall policy you see it’s relatively I would say no impact on new vehicles and we were already repairing new vehicles so that’s not an issue it’s a significant impact on pre-owned.
Now just it is got the issue for a moment I think the auto industry really had some credibility issues and I have to say it’s up to everything from some of the horrific recalls we’ve had with significant loss of life to credibility issues around the Volkswagen situation.
So we sit there and say what can we do on our part to make it better? So on pre-owned it’s a significant issue on any given day 15% of our inventory has open recalls.
Now let me be clear these are not that the long tire pressure sticker is on the car or some other little minor item that doesn’t have an owner’s manual that’s on the new cars when they are first released you get the sticker issue or the owner’s manual issue that had one page missing.
These are significant safety recalls and we feel the time has passed that it’s appropriate to take a vehicle in trade with a significant safety recall and turnaround the next day and sell it to consumer.
So we’re the only one who had done it where we take as a brand attribute we will work to make it a brand attribute in 2016 and we see on a long-term it will be a tremendous advantage to us.
In the meantime it is very disruptive to our used car business because we see no way to get it below 15% there’s no recalls arriving every day and we have to increase inventory to get to the same point and same point of front line availability and at the same time we have to then work very hard to get the vehicles repaired as promptly as possible.
So it remains a disruptive issue I would say if I looked at our declines on a gross for the fourth quarter on used vehicle I would put the majority of it to higher incentives on the manufacturers and higher new vehicle discounts from us but recall disruption remains part of it and probably will continue for the first half of the year until I would get it all sorted out.
Thank you Mike.
Thank you for taking the questions.
Absolutely.
And we still have two questions ma’am.
Next question is Patrick Archambault with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Yeah hi thank you it’s actually Dave Tamberrino on for Pat couple of questions from our side and maybe following up on Rob’s line of questioning on the subprime discussion maybe viewing it from another angle but we’ve heard some of the auto lenders really discussing some irrational actors particularly within the subprime market have you seen any changes in credit underwriting loan standards for autos more recently? This is Bill no we really haven’t our subprime business for the fourth quarter was 10% for the full year we’re at 11%.
So it actually dropped slightly in Q4 but there has been no material impact as far as credit availability.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then on the digital initiative not much in the prepared remarks I don’t recall how is that tracking how much spend is left are you fully transacting online now? And then along those lines has there been any negative impact from your reduction in third party relationships throughout the year? Yeah you didn’t hear much discussion about because it’s complete success.
We made the pivot last year away from third party lead providers who required a substantial additional discount and already get the business and we’re expected to business with.
The third party lead providers who we stayed with and they are now about 8% of our business overall we have wonderful new partnership where we’re allowed to bring our brand into their sites which we -- and that is a condition of doing business with us.
And so that is a huge step forward and as I said we’re growing from trending towards 15% of the business with third parties in a couple of more years it would have been 20% now it’s going in the other direction and that gives us more resources to go into our brand.
We now generate fully 25% of our business from AutoNation site which is a spectacular success the customers like the ability to be able to transact on the site.
We still have capabilities that we’re adding step-by-step that continue to roll out I think the most difficult piece remains the documentation that may push into 2017.
There is different pieces of it that we can get done but we still need some regulatory change to get it completely done.
So that’s probably rolling into 2017 everything else we talked about we expect to have operational in 2016.
There is a cost to just continue with this level of digital intensity I have no issue with that but I don’t see -- I think I said this already in the fourth quarter as far as investment in digital we probably hit peak we’ll run at that in 2016 and after that be able to go down to more of a maintenance level.
But you can check with me a year from now on that when we get the final plan on how we going to tackle documentation.
Okay that’s fair.
And as it relates to the $100 million that you guys called out over a year ago.
I mean it sounds as if you’ve maybe spend over half of that and the remainder is in 2016 is that fair? So the $100 million was what we are going to do I forget which year it was ‘14 ‘15 I don’t remember exactly and it was a combination what we were going to invest in the brand that we could attract traffic to our sites and the digital capability of it [ph] so was a combination.
So I’m saying in 2015 the brand was strong enough that we could walk away from third-party lead providers and have the traffic come to our sites and then the other piece of the puzzle was to invest in our digital capability that once they came to our sites they were happy with the experience.
So they were declaring victory and as far as exactly where we are on that $100 million I think we’re probably through that but still continue to be investment in ‘16.
We’ve already said on the marketing side we’ll adjust our spend this year versus last year.
So that’s part of it and on digital we’ll probably run at the same level as ‘15 without an increase.
Okay that’s very helpful color.
Thank you Mike.
And then just finally on the PNS same-store comp declaration that we saw as we’ve seen in the last couple of quarters.
First question is do you think the underlying mid-single digit growth for that segment guidance still holds? And then secondly as it relates to elevated recalls where are we with some of those that are outstanding on the Takata side and maybe some of the GM and obviously BW I don’t think there is a fix out there yet.
But how much more gas is in the tank there for recall to help push growth in PNS going forward? This is Bill.
First off on parts and service we see continued strong growth in parts and service as far as it relates to recalls Mike talked about it earlier.
Every day we get additional recalls that are coming in you just heard that Takata added 5 million additional cars to the recalls for the air bags.
In addition Ford just announced a large call on Ranger trucks.
So we see no slowdown in the amount of cars being recalled.
It’s just moving away from the ignition switches and the initial Takata air bag to more broad spectrum of units and manufacturers.
BW corrector is no fix that's been called out right now.
But that represents a very small percentage of our business less than 1%.
So there will be no real impact to us on that end.
But parts and service will continue to remain strong.
Thank you very much.
So that was our last question.
Somebody said it earlier in a statement calling out our ability to adapt to circumstances how we’ve demonstrate that in the past.
We will do that again can’t tell you exactly how long it will take.
But it’s underway we still totally believe in the validity of our diversified model.
We are one third domestic one third Asian and one third Premium Luxury.
Obviously the domestic business with trucks is as strong as you can imagine and Asian is challenged because fuel economy which is our strength is not valued by the marketplace at the moment and we have a surprising challenge with Premium Luxury here in the fourth quarter.
We are diversified by business type.
We went through lot of that and we are diversified geographically.
Yes we have a storm in Texas at the moment that will take some time to blow through.
But in total it’s an adaptable model and we will do that once again.
So thank you for your patience today.
Thank you for your very constructive questions and we will look forward to talking to you again in the future.
Thank you very much for joining us today.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you all for joining.