Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Harris Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Alicia and I will be your coordinator today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Pamela Padgett Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Hello everyone.
Good afternoon.
Welcome to Harris Corp.
first quarter fiscal 2011 conference call.
I'm Pamela Padgett and on the call with me today is Howard Lance Chairman President and CEO; Gary McArthur Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started a few words about forward-looking statements.
In the course of this teleconference management may make forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements involve assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those statements.
For more information and a discussion of such assumptions risks and uncertainties please see the press release and filings made by Harris with the SEC.
In addition in our press release and on this teleconference we will discuss certain financial measures and information that are non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to the comparable GAAP measure is included in the tables of our press release and on the Investor Relations section of our website which is www.harris.com.
A replay of this call will also be available on the Investor Relations section.
And with that Howard I'll turn it over to you.
Thanks Pam and welcome everyone to our first quarter fiscal 2011 earnings call.
Harris first quarter results were very strong with revenue and income significantly higher than the prior year.
Excellent financial performance was driven by continuing strong demand and favorable product mix in our Tactical Radio business.
Results in the Public Safety and Professional Communications business were solid.
And following the end of the quarter Harris was selected to negotiate a potential contract with the government of Alberta Canada with their new province-wide radio communication system.
This represents a significant multi-year program opportunity for us.
In our Government Communication Systems segment new program wins as well as additional program scope and follow-on business for existing programs are building a healthy backlog even as the government spending environment has become more challenging.
And sequential improvement was seen in our Broadcast Communication segment which has been negatively impacted by the global recession.
Consolidated revenue in the first quarter was $1.41 billion 17% higher than the prior year.
On an organic basis excluding the impact of acquisitions revenue increased 10%.
Non-GAAP income which excludes acquisition-related costs was $165 million in the first quarter or $1.28 per diluted share.
An increase of 56% compared with the prior-year quarter.
Non-GAAP EBITDA in the first quarter was $318 million compared with the prior year of $228 million.
Consolidated orders in the first quarter were very strong at $1.30 billion.
While somewhat lower than the $1.50 billion in the prior quarter but it also sequentially followed a very large fourth quarter of $1.70 billion in orders.
Our recent wins and strong opportunity pipeline have certainly increased our confidence for another strong performance in fiscal 2011 and we expect good momentum when we enter fiscal 2012.
First quarter revenue for the RF Communication segment was $567 million that's 34% higher compared to $424 million in the prior year.
Operating income was $229 million and operating margin was a very strong 40% due to favorable product mix and operating efficiencies in our business.
First quarter orders for the RF segment were $472 million.
Tactical Radio Communications revenue was $446 million in the quarter increased 47% compared with the $303 million in the last-year first quarter.
Revenue was driven by deliveries on fiscal 2010 orders for equipping MRAPs and M-ATVs.
The remaining $80 million in prior-year MRAP and M-ATV orders is expected to ship in our second quarter.
Tactical Radio Communications orders were $394 million in the quarter representing a strong book-to-bill of 0.9%.
We continue to experience solid demand in the U.S.
stronger demand internationally and an uptake in customer adoption of our new Falcon III radio family.
We also saw a number of orders for new products.
In fact orders outside of our core tactical radio products represented 26% of orders in the first quarter in total and 7% of revenue.
Additionally nearly 50% of our orders in the quarter were for less than $5 million coming from a wide array of U.S.
and international customers.
We believe further demonstrating the broad-based sustainable global appeal of our product offering.
International wins in the quarter included three orders totalling $69 million from the government of Pakistan.
For the next phase of our comprehensive C4I system which utilizes Harris Falcon II and Falcon III Tactical Radios our secure personal radios our multiband networking radios and high-capacity line of sight radio solutions.
Also included a $12 million order for Falcon III high-capacity line of sight radios and Falcon II HF radios from a country in the Middle East and $14 million and $10 million respectively in orders to deliver the first Falcon III Type-1 Suite B Handheld Tactical Radios supporting Coalition Forces in the Middle East and is in Central Asia.
Wins in the U.S.
market included $34 million from the U.S.
Navy for Falcon III and Falcon II radios $33 million  for KGV-72 blue force tracking COMSEC terminals $20 million for AN/PRC-117G vehicular adapters from the U.S.
Marine Corps.
$15 million from the U.S.
Army for HF Loop antennas for improved communications on the move capability and $5 million from the U.S.
Army for our RF-7800W high-capacity line-of-sight radio systems.
Also during the quarter we received a $5 million order for service and support in fielding the 117G across all the brigade and combat teams in Afghanistan.
Harris employees are working side-by-side with the Army as next-generation mobile wideband tactical communications networks are deployed improving situational awareness across the battlefield.
The 117G with its software-defined architecture permits war fighters to access the Army wideband tactical Internet extending that network to remote commanders and platoon leaders on the move.
This permits war fighters to view convoy reports understand logistics needs and receive emergency medevac requests and all of these simultaneously.
In addition because of the 117G interfaces to standard IP-based networks units are able to access webmail and other mission-critical websites.
We expect the fielding of the 117G with the brigade combat teams to be completed by the end of the calendar year.
We also continue to introduce additional Falcon III innovations that add new customer-driven functionality.
An example is expanding its intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance capabilities.
ISR data and ground tactical communications have previously been handled using separate and often non-interoperable technologies.
By combining the two into a single system ISR video from UAVs can be transmitted in real time to tactical radios operated by ground troops and the video can be viewed across the entire wideband tactical radio network.
This provides troops across the battlefield with real-time situational awareness faster decision-making and more effective and safer operations.
Our first development incorporated the ROVER waveform into the 117G.
This success has led to our latest announcement a joint development effort between Harris and Cubic Corporation to connect ISR video transmissions using the new TCDL waveform which provides higher data rates and higher resolution video.
Neither of these critical ISR capabilities is specified in the JTRS programs of record radios under development.
Harris continues to prove that our commercial business model is significantly faster to market with mission-critical innovations and our pipeline of opportunities remains very strong at approximately $2 billion in international markets and $1.3 billion in the U.S.
market.
Public Safety and Professional Communications revenue was $121 million in the first quarter and flat with the prior year.
Our results certainly impacted by the constrained state and local spending environment.
During the quarter however we continue to demonstrate strong product and technical offerings that have really positioned this business to continue to gain market share and provide us with long-term growth.
Several key milestones in the quarter are worth noting.
First we introduced the Harris GR-100 System a wireless solution that tracks and transmits the location of firefighters and other first responders while they are inside buildings enabling on scene commanders to better coordinate firefighting efforts and monitor their personnel.
We also completed the successful test of the nation's first multi-vendor radio communications network utilizing P25 gateways in Dallas-Fort Worth.
This first of its kind public safety communication network will provide regional first responders with additional radio coverage and unprecedented interoperability during emergency response situations.
We also announced during the quarter the introduction of Open Sky II the second generation of our high performance digital voice and data communications network to be utilized in public safety utilities industrial and transportation applications.
Open Sky II is a comprehensive enhancement of our network platform that includes improved user services geographic coverage and audio features.
Orders in Public Safety and Professional Communications in the first quarter were $78 million.
This included a $14 million order for a new state-wide public safety communications network and $9 million from Ontario County New York to upgrade its public safety radio communication system with the Harris P25 IP solution.
And then after the close of the quarter Harris was selected by the Alberta Canada Solicitor General and Public Security Office as a preferred vendor for the design construction implementation and operation of the province-wide Alberta First Responders Radio Communications System.
Harris is currently engaged in due diligence activities as defined in their request for proposals.
A word that the contract is subject to successful completion of these activities also finalization of the contract documentation and approval of the finalized contract by the Alberta Treasury Board.
This communication system will cover 256 000 square miles and will be the critical link among Alberta's first responders.
We still see a $3 billion in Public Safety and Professional Communications pipeline of opportunities including Alberta.
And we expect to deliver our book-to-bill for this business of at least one in fiscal 2011.
In summary the RF Communication segment had another very successful quarter.
Backlog remains strong at $1.67 billion at quarter end including $1.19 billion in Tactical Communications.
Global demand for our products remains robust and our investments in new technologies and innovative solutions continue to distinguish us from our competition.
Revenue in the Government Communications Systems segment was $736 million in the first quarter 10% higher compared with $668 million in the prior year.
Organic revenue growth was about flat in the quarter due to timing of new program awards but we expect segment growth to return in the second quarter.
We continue to see an organic growth rate for the year of 6% to 8%.
Revenue increased in the quarter on the GOES-R satellite program ground segment and as a result of the recently awarded antenna segment program.
Revenue also benefited from the recent acquisitions of CapRock Communications.
Revenue declined in the quarter on several small classified programs and as expected on the Field Data Collection Automation program for the 2010 U.S.
Census.
Non-GAAP segment operating income in the first quarter was $80 million.
Operating margin was strong at 10.9%.
This compares with non-GAAP operating income of $86 million in the prior-year quarter which benefited from award fees related to the FAA telecommunications infrastructure program.
We achieved several significant program wins in the quarter.
These included a 10-year $130 million contract from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to supply antennas and control systems for the GOES-R program.
The antennas will provide communication links for command telemetry and sensor data as well as a communications link to direct data users.
In addition to this award Harris also received $45 million in additional scope on the GOES-R ground segment program that was awarded to us last year.
A $77 million IT services contract was awarded by the U.S.
Army material command to provide IT infrastructure and follow-on operations support for the relocation of AMC headquarters to the Redstone Arsenal in Huntsville Alabama.
This is the second major military headquarters relocation contract for Harris.
The award protest for the five-year $140 million Space Network Ground Segment Sustainment program for NASA that was awarded last year has been favorably resolved.
Harris will lead the replacement of equipment and software in this space-to-ground link for NASA's tracking and data relay satellite system.
Other significant awards in the quarter included a $55 million scope expansion on the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter Avionics program a $64 million option year award for the U.S.
Air Force network and Space Operations and Maintenance Program and a $40 million option year award for the Department of State Consular Affairs Support Services IT contract.
Following the close of the quarter Harris was awarded a nine-year potential $273 million Canadian follow-on contract from the government of Canada for the CF-18 Optimized Weapon Support program.
Harris will provide engineering services to support avionic systems on Canada's fighter aircraft.
Harris Healthcare Solutions continued its progress with $33 million in new awards during the quarter.
The Nationwide Health Information Network-Connect project for the Department of Health and Human Services also received the prestigious Wall Street Journal Technology Innovation for Healthcare IT Award.
Connect was cited for its broad impact on the adoption of electronic healthcare information exchanges between federal agencies and healthcare providers used to efficiently and securely transfer patient information improving the quality of care accelerating access to benefits while also reducing costs.
We are also very excited about the formal launch of our joint venture with leading Middle East telecommunications systems security provider Atlas Telecom.
Harris Atlas based in Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates will deliver innovative intelligent solutions including enhanced video management and geospatial 3D visualization.
The venture will focus on delivery of large-scale mission-critical intelligence and communications systems in the region.
On July 30 we completed the acquisition of CapRock Communications.
CapRock is a leading global provider of managed satellite communication services serving the energy government and maritime industries.
CapRock contributed $65 million to first quarter revenue and scored significant wins.
We continue to foster new opportunities within the U.S.
government and the lifting of the drilling moratorium in the Gulf of Mexico could provide additional opportunities.
During the quarter Harris CapRock was awarded four contracts totalling $43 million to provide managed network services and over 400 megahertz commercial satellite capacity to four separate U.S.
government agencies.
These contracts run through 2013 and include requirements for bandwidth teleport and backhaul services on KU and expand networks.
These services will be used to support a range of missions including airborne ISR tactical field deployed communications and continuity of operations.
In the Broadcast Communication segment revenue in the first quarter was $122 million compared with the prior-year quarter of $119 million.
The segment operating loss was $9 million included $1 million of restructuring costs.
Orders were stronger and grew in the quarter to $135 million compared with the prior year of $124 million and $111 million in the fiscal 2010 fourth quarter.
Results in the segment continue to reflect market weakness in the traditional U.S.
broadcast capital spending market.
And also included are ongoing increased investments in sales and marketing to address new media and international growth opportunities.
The 1.1 book-to-bill ratio in the quarter along with year-over-year revenue growth are both encouraging signs for the segment.
During the quarter Harris was awarded $8 million from Nine Network Australia for a new play out center which includes our servers multi-viewers routers digital asset management and automation software.
Other major awards in the quarter included $4 million from TPBS Thailand for Harris Integrated Broadcast Systems which encompasses the entire workflow for the customer from in just through content management and play out.
A $2.5 million order from Network Seven (sic) [Seven Network] in Australia for an end-to-end file-based play out center for their Melbourne operations.
And $2.5 million order from Saudi Television for TV and radio transmission sites and HD production studios.
Another exciting event in the quarter was the inauguration of the in-arena broadcast network at the Amway Center in Orlando home of the National Basketball Association's Orlando Magic.
Harris took part in a ceremony to officially open the new facility unveiling the most technologically advanced arena in North America.
The Harris solution is a unique convergence of IP and broad-based technology that provides an entirely new streamlined workflow system.
It also provides fans with an exceptional multimedia event experience and offers access to new advertising revenue streams going forward.
Let me now ask Gary McArthur Harris' CFO to comment on our financial results in the quarter.
Thank you Howard.
The first quarter was an outstanding balance sheet and cash flow quarter for the company.
Cash on hand at the end of the quarter was $341 million strong collections in the quarter drove down days-sales-outstanding from 54 days to 48 debt-to-total-capital remained about the same at 39% and return on invested capital as a result of the very strong operating performance increased from 18% to 22% all as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2010.
During the quarter we established a $300 million 364 day revolving credit facility to replace the capacity used for the purchase of CapRock Communications which closed on July 30.
Cash flow in the quarter was excellent.
Cash flow generated from operating activities was $295 million as compared to $135 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2010.
All three operating segments generated positive cash flow.
Free cash flow for the first quarter was $254 million as compared to $114 million.
Our increased guidance for cash flow from operations for fiscal 2011 is now a range of $775 million to $825 million up from our previous guidance of $750 million to $800 million.
During the quarter we repurchased $50 million of our outstanding common stock at an average purchase price of $42.59 per share.
As of quarter end we have $400 million remaining authorization under our stock repurchase program.
Depreciation and amortization for the first quarter was $47 million as compared to $42 million in the first quarter of the prior year.
Our expectations for depreciation and amortization for fiscal year 2011 are unchanged at $205 million to $215 million.
Capital expenditures were $41 million for the first quarter as compared to $21 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2010.
Our current guidance for fiscal year 2011 CapEx is unchanged at between $250 million and $275 million.
Our effective tax rate in the first quarter was 34.8% our outlook for the full year tax rate for fiscal 2011 assuming the R&amp;D tax credit is passed is now 33.5% down from our previous guidance of 34%.
Again noting however that the tax rate for any given quarter could vary up or down as a result of discrete tax events.
In summary we are off to a very good start and continue to operate from a very strong financial foundation.
Back to you Howard.
Thanks Gary.
We have increased our financial guidance for fiscal year 2011 due to our strong first quarter operating performance and improving second quarter outlook.
Consolidated revenue for fiscal 2011 is now expected to be towards the higher end of our previous range of $5.9 billion to $6 billion about 15% above fiscal 2010.
Non-GAAP EBITDA for fiscal 2011 which excludes acquisition-related costs is expected to be in a range of $1.21 billion to $1.23 billion representing an increase of 10% to 12% above our fiscal 2010 EBITDA of $1.10 billion.
Non-GAAP income excluding acquisition-related costs is now expected to be in the range from $4.80 to $4.90 per diluted share.
That's a year-over-year increase of 8% to 11%.
Our previous guidance if you recall was $4.60 to $4.70 per share.
On our last call we provided quarterly guidance for the first and second quarters of fiscal 2011 because of the atypical seasonality caused by the MRAP and M-ATV program shipments being concentrated mostly in the first quarter.
Earnings in the second quarter are now expected to be in the range of $1.08 to $1.12 per share.
Slightly above last year and much higher than our previous guidance and we expect sequential EPS growth in the back half of fiscal 2011.
For the RF Communication segment fiscal 2011 revenue is now expected to be 10% to 11% higher than fiscal 2010 and 16% to 17% higher in the second quarter.
Segment operating margin for the year is expected to be 33% to 34%.
For the Government Communications Systems segment guidance is unchanged.
We expect revenue for fiscal 2011 to be 20% to 22% higher than fiscal 2010.
This represents 6% to 8% growth in the existing Government Communications Systems business and then we add 11 months of contribution of CapRock Communications acquisition revenue in the range of $380 million to $390 million.
Total segment operating margin is expected to be approximately 11% for the fiscal year.
And for the Broadcast Communication segment we continue to expect revenue in the range of $490 million to $510 million with break-even operating results.
We still expect operating losses in the first half but they will be followed we believe by improving profitability in the second half.
At this time I'll ask the operator to open the line and we'll be pleased to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And the first question comes from the line of Jason Kupferberg with UBS.
Just wanted to start with a question if I could on RF Comm and I guess assuming you guys are still targeting a 1.0 book-to-bill for the full year.
Should we expect that you'll be back above those levels starting in the second quarter? Obviously we're a little bit below in the first quarter but that probably wasn't too surprising just based on how the MRAP and the M-ATV business was expected to layer in from a revenue perspective.
And in that context just talk about your visibility on converting some of the near-term RF Comm pipeline orders especially on the Tactical Radio side? Jason the business is kind of lumpy.
We still expect to be able to achieve our target of 1 book-to-bill for the year for the Tactical business as well as to meet or exceed that for the public safety part of the segment.
As you say we came very close to that at about 0.9 in the first quarter.
I think what's most important is that we see the pipeline really filling up nicely as we look out at both the domestic U.S.
as well as the international business.
In terms of specifically guiding to a specific book-to-bill by quarter I'm not going to go there but overall we're still feeling good for the year.
It doesn't mean it's a slam dunk but what it does mean is that we have the opportunities in sight and are pursuing them.
And as long as we get a little good fortune in timing in Q4 this year versus Q1 next year I think we've got a very good shot at getting there.
Even if we just came close though we're talking about still a sizable backlog exiting this year into fiscal '12.
So I think the good news of the first quarter and our higher guidance in the second quarter is all about the firming up of the order pipeline at RF this year and our confidence in delivering on that.
And maybe if you can just talk a little bit more about the Alberta contract now so I can grasp on that.
Maybe some comments on the potential timing actually complete your due diligence and sign the contract and then anything you can tell us in terms of potential size from an order perspective.
That would be great.
The customer at this point has not publicly disclosed the size of the opportunity so I'm not in a position to comment on that.
And in due diligence part of the discussion will I'm sure be around budget availability.
So there's not a specific size but I think you can draw a conclusion that this is a multi-year very large program given the amount of real estate that is covered by the province of Alberta over 250 000 square miles.
So this is certainly a significant project.
Competition was certainly Motorola the market leader.
We're very pleased our team put together a very very good proposal and we are looking forward to completing these negotiations.
How long that will take? I'm not sure but it's not uncommon for that to run on for a quarter or two.
So we could be talking about not finalizing this until the new calendar year.
But it certainly should be we hope in this fiscal year and help to bolster our orders and backlog and then provide a multi-year stream of revenue and profitability as we execute the program.
So certainly it's a major win and we're very proud of our team for delivering that.
If I could just squeeze one more quick one in on the Cyber business.
Anything you can tell us these days in terms of the size of the Cyber business how fast it's growing? Maybe do you see is there much significant competitors in that space? Obviously there seems to be a lot more budgetary attention being paid to that area and did they notify position there not too long ago? Well I certainly think that it still represents a large opportunity.
Our focus is going to be on developing what we think is unique secure cloud hosting for government and select commercial customers that will attribute a high value to the security of our particular solution.
We will be able to talk I think in a lot more detail on the next quarterly call as we really launch that business in our fiscal third quarter following the fit-out of the facility that we acquired in Harrisonburg Virginia a few months back.
And the next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol with JP Morgan.
Howard on the 117G you mentioned that we should expect or that you're expecting it to be deployed across all the brigade combat units in Afghanistan by the end of the calendar year.
Wondering if there's I guess if that's all in backlog already and what you're expecting going forward in Afghanistan for the 117G? If it's more beyond end of the calendar year deadline? Well on the second part of your question we certainly hope that there is more.
Certainly the opportunity for continued adoption of the 117G we think is truly enabled by this major milestone that we've broken through which is the approval to deploy what's called capabilities set nine and 10 by the Army to deploy that capability to all of the BCTs in theater.
That's a major achievement.
We have received also as I mentioned a contract to put a number of our team members in country helping to deploy and set up these networks.
And we're convinced like many major new innovations as our customers start to use the radios it's going to have a follow-on compounding effect in terms of broader adoption not just in Afghanistan but over the long-term.
So from our perspective we think it's a major milestone and we're in the process I don't know probably 30% 40% of the way through getting these systems up and running.
Orders for those are all in house already and we're already included in previous contracts that we've announced.
Is there a way of thinking about penetration? I mean is the opportunity more penetration for the BCTs that are in Afghanistan just like they get the radios they love them they want more? Or is it more just not Afghanistan? Well I think in the long run there are probably opportunities in both but this remains to be seen in terms of how the Army sees opportunities to utilize the technology.
Again I think what's encouraging to us is the support that we're getting on the ground because of what the 117G allows our customers to do that couldn't be done before using the traditional radio systems.
And the continued lagging of the JTRS programs.
The record again gives us a major window of opportunity to illustrate the capabilities of utilizing our commercially developed technology getting to market faster.
So we're very encouraged.
Certainly opportunity for 117G alongside the opportunities for a number of our other new products are what is helping to give us more confidence that we can continue to grow orders this year and maintain that very high mark of 1:1 book-to-bill.
And in the tactical radio business probably the $446 million this quarter.
Would you mind sharing or can you share how much of that was the MRAP-ATV? I think our shipments were $240 million $250 million round numbers associated with that program and about another $80 million as I indicated to go in the second quarter.
And then just finally Howard anything you can share on -- you did CapRock you talked about some of the things going on there.
Anything you can share on how you're thinking about M&amp;A these days given valuations where the company is cash balance et cetera? We continue to see strategic acquisitions as a way to augment the work that we're doing organically.
We think in terms of three buckets of growth we've got our core businesses that we expect to grow with their customers gaining market share and coming up with solutions for follow-on applications.
Then we're moving into adjacent markets which for us have included healthcare cyber public safety.
And now the satellite-managed services capabilities.
And certainly we continue like other companies to look at additional acquisitions.
There's a lot out there but we continue to also put a pretty fine screen on those with regard to being a fit strategically in our business and also being at a value level that allows us through synergies create returns above our cost of capital.
So I think you'll continue to see us look.
We continue as Gary indicated have a very strong balance sheet.
We have well over $700 million in debt capacity available right now just on our revolvers.
So we're in a very strong position.
We continue to look but I certainly won't speculate on timing of any specific events.
And the next question comes from the line of Chris Quilty with Raymond James.
Howard just a clarification.
That $240 million to $250 million contribution from ATVs was that in last fiscal year or was that cumulative? That's the Q1 revenue numbers associated with all the MRAP programs and to be precise it's $235 million.
And there's been some discussion about them upsizing that program by several thousand more vehicles.
Have you seen any indications of where those discussions are going? So I'm aware that there has been an authorization of 1 000 vehicles.
And that I think leaves about another 1 000 to the ceiling of 10 000 that was originally established.
So we're likely to see orders coming and then presumably you're including some percentage hit in your guidance for the business? Yes.
We're trying to take into consideration all of those factors as well as inventory they have reuse of existing radios.
As well as exactly what configuration they will put into which vehicles because as I understand it the latest 1 000 unit order some of those are from Oshkosh some are from Navistar some are ATVs some are original MRAPs.
And it's just hard to always be precise about how they're going to be configured.
But certainly we're feeling like we will likely hit some uplift in this fiscal year further related to those additional orders.
But hard to quantify today exactly the dollar amount Chris.
And switching over to the public radio that Alberta order was that purely traditional public communications equipment you are selling in there? Or were you able to layer in any of your either other RF communications products like the 7800 non line-of-sight radio or some of your capabilities in network management from the other business units? What was the key to winning that do you think? Well I certainly think that the Harris partnership with the former M/A-COM business is what won the business.
I don't believe just my opinion that the acquired company on its own previously would have had a big enough footprint in communications and network technology to be able to compete on such a large order against Motorola and General Dynamics of Canada who were partnered on the competitive side.
So I certainly think that we brought what I like to call the big H.
solutions to this particular pursuit.
And it certainly included a broader capability than just the public safety radios and base stations.
And final question if I may the Broadcast business update on the Valiant Angel program? Nothing specific we continue to ship systems related to our full-motion video asset management engine or FAME solution.
But we also are developing and starting to ship lower-cost solutions in that space.
So we're not totally dependent just on the Valiant Angel program.
There's a lot of development going on in general around providing enhanced ISR database access and retrieval and both Broadcast in partnership with our Government Systems division are pursuing those opportunities.
And the next question comes from the line of Mark Jordan with Noble Financial.
First of all relative to the guidance what assumptions do you have with regards to buy-back through the balance of the year? Are you assuming some rate or it's just on a static account that you have out there today? This is Gary MacArthur.
We have typically been doing around $50 million of share buy-back a quarter.
We currently anticipate doing that throughout this fiscal year.
And that's embedded in your estimates? Yes I think it is included in our guidance.
Secondly Howard could you break down what the Tactical Radio backlog of I believe $1.19 billion whether its domestic versus international? And is the domestic piece primarily 12 months delivery cycle and is international multi-year? I don't have a specific breakdown Mark for that.
But it certainly has -- it's not 80%-20%.
It certainly has a significant component of both.
And yes generally you should think about orders that we get from U.S.
Government would be shipped within 12 months and some portion of the international orders would go out beyond 12 months because they might be a multi-year program.
The same is true in the Public Safety business when we talk about backlog.
Some of that is shipping directly in the current fiscal year against the program.
Some of it is going out into a multiple year program such as we've been discussing with the opportunity in Alberta.
Just relative to the JTRS program could you update us as to when you think the participants of the program will be shipping radios? And do you have any sense as to their pricing and sort of capabilities ranking versus your offerings at that time? I certainly don't have any specific information.
I’m not aware that they have published any new schedules.
But it is our sense that the programs are slipping and likely to announce delays.
But I don't have anything specific off of any published document that I can reference.
Nor do I have anything regarding pricing.
The only thing we've ever seen on pricing are target prices at very high volumes.
Those are certainly not likely to be achieved during the first limited-rate initial production of any program.
So I'm presuming that prices will be higher than whatever the prices in the long run that were quoted.
So those are just our assumptions.
I don't have any specific document to point to Mark.
And the final question comes from the line of Carter Copeland with Barclays Capital.
This is Meyer [ph] on behalf of Carter.
Just had two questions.
The first one when asked about the slowdown in spending and contractions at gate that have been talked about.
Have you seen any impact on the spending at Multimax? The answer is no not specifically in our IT Services business.
We have more broadly in the Government Systems segment seen some program awards get delayed as a result of the continuing resolution.
So we have seen a little bit of that but it hasn't had a major impact on our view of the year as you heard me indicate we continue to think 6% to 8% year-over-year revenue growth organically is achievable.
And we think that will be largely ahead of our peer group.
So we're still feeling pretty positive.
We've had a number of program wins in the first quarter as I rattle off that list of different programs.
So we're feeling pretty positive but we've certainly have seen a few program awards slip to the right.
You actually started answering the second I had which is asking about the timing of awards.
Have you seen any changes so far into this quarter? Again for us not of material impact.
But we have seen a few of the programs that we were expecting to be awarded by this date move out one to three months.
And again I think it's mainly associated with the continuing resolution which we expect to be in place for several more months and we've baked those assumptions into our guidance.
So the bottom line is yes some of the new awards are slipping out but it is not having a material effect on our revenue outlook for the year.
Well thank you everyone for joining us.
Appreciate it.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 Harris Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Michelle and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Ms.
Pamela Padgett Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon and welcome everyone to Harris Corporation's Third Quarter Fiscal 2011 Earnings Call.
I'm Pam Padgett and on the call with me today is Howard Lance Chairman President and CEO; and Gary McArthur Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started a few words about forward-looking statements.
In the course of this teleconference management may make forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements involve assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those statements.
For more information on the discussion of such assumptions risks and uncertainties please see the press release and filings made by Harris with the SEC.
In addition in our press release and on this teleconference we will discuss certain financial measures and information that are non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to the comparable GAAP measures is included in a tables in our press release and on the Investor Relations section of our website which is www.harris.com.
A replay of this call will also be available on Investor Relations section of our website.
And with that Howard I'm going to turn the call over to you.
Thank you Pam.
I want to add my welcome to all of you for our third quarter fiscal 2011 earnings call.
Harris posted solid third quarter results with higher consolidated orders in the prior year and strong operating margins in both our RF Communications and Government Communications Systems segments.
Revenue was higher than the prior year quarter primarily due to the impact of acquisitions.
Income was lower due to the favorable product mix in the prior year.
As you'll remember we had the large volume of expedited shipments of tactical radios to equip the Mine Resistant Ambush Protected Vehicles for Afghanistan.
In addition our Government Programs and IT Services businesses began to see some impact in the quarter from slowing U.S.
Government spending including the disruption caused by the continuing budget resolution.
We've reduced our expected revenue in fiscal 2011 by a total of $100 million in Government Programs and IT services as a result and we've reduced fiscal 2012 revenue by a comparable $100 million.
But you may recall in our previous earnings call we explained that if revenue was in fact impacted by the CR we did not expect any appreciable impact on margins as a result of our continuing emphasis on operating efficiencies and cost control and that's exactly what's happened.
I'm pleased to report that we've closed now on 3 previously announced acquisitions that have become part of our new Integrated Network Solutions segment.
We believe these businesses will help drive revenue growth margin expansion and increase earnings for Harris in fiscal 2012 and beyond.
On April 4 we completed the acquisition of the Schlumberger Global Connectivity Services business.
They are a leading provider of satellite and terrestrial communications services for the international energy markets.
We also acquired the infrastructure assets from Core180's government business thereby extending our U.S.
terrestrial network capabilities and lowering our cost of operations.
These 2 acquisitions have been combined with previously acquired CapRock Communications and the Harris Maritime Communication Services business to create Harris CapRock Communications a $600 million-plus managed Communications Services business serving government energy and maritime markets.
This business combination positions us as the leading supplier in a high-growth industry.
The added scale makes our second only to the U.S.
Government as a purchaser of satellite bandwidth which along with our plans to rationalize redundant facilities and operations creates a very rich opportunity for expanding operating margins across the business as we move forward.
We also completed the acquisition of Carefx a leading provider of interoperability workflow solutions for government and commercial healthcare providers.
Carefx has a broad hospital customer base providing Harris with increased channel access to the fast-growing commercial healthcare IT market.
We'll benefit from increased sales of Carefx solutions along with cross-selling additional services offered by other Harris businesses.
Consolidated revenue in the third quarter was  $1.41 billion 6% higher than the prior year.
Non-GAAP income excluding acquisition-related costs was $149 million or $1.16 per share compared with $170 million or $1.29 per share in the prior year.
Non-GAAP income before interest taxes depreciation and amortization was $294 million in the quarter compared to $310 million in the prior year quarter.
This represents a year-over-year decline of about 5% in EBITDA as compared to an EPS decline of 10%.
Consolidated orders of $1.55 billion exceeded revenue and was 7% higher compared with $1.45 billion in the prior year.
This resulted in a consolidated company book-to-bill of $1.1 billion for the third quarter.
Turning to RF Communications.
Third quarter revenue for the RF Communications segment was $550 million about flat with the prior year.
Prior year expedited shipments of tactical radios to equip MRAP vehicles created a distorted year-over-year comparison.
Remember that Harris shipped $1 billion in MRAP program radios over the 5 quarters that ended in 1Q of fiscal 2011.
While this is certainly a great testament to our leading radio technology and our commercial business model this success produced some very tough quarters to beat in an already very successful business.
Operating income for the RF Communications segment was $179 million compared with non-GAAP operating income of $208 million in the prior year.
Again the prior year benefited from the MRAP shipments previously noted.
Operating margin in the quarter was very strong at 32.5%.
And that's about 50 basis points higher than we had previously expected.
And we believe these higher margins are sustainable going forward in fiscal 2012.
Our new manufacturing facility is scheduled to be operational in July further helping us to maintain our low-cost position and supporting healthy margins for the long run.
Tactical Communications revenue was $431 million in the quarter about flat with the prior year.
And we believe this was an excellent result given the difficult comparison.
Deliveries to the MRAP program declined by $206 million year-over-year.
Non-MRAP shipments to DoD customers increased significantly due to the adoption of our new Falcon III 117G wideband networking radio.
And International revenue increased significantly comprising 1/2 of Tactical Communications' revenue during the third quarter.
Public Safety and Professional Communications revenue was $119 million in the third quarter also flat with the prior year and continuing to reflect the constrained state and local government spending environment.
However we expect recent program wins to begin to drive sequential revenue improvement beginning in the fiscal fourth quarter.
RF Communications segment orders were $722 million in the quarter with a book-to-bill of $1.3 million and segment backlog increased to $1.70 billion.
Orders for Tactical Communications as part of that total were $351 million with a corresponding book-to-bill of 0.8.
Backlog continues to be healthy with Tactical Communications backlog standing at $981 million at the end of the third quarter.
U.S.
DoD orders were slightly higher than revenue in the quarter with international orders as expected slightly below revenue.
Ongoing instability in the Middle East is likely to push about $100 million in orders previously planned for the back half of fiscal 2011 into fiscal 2012.
It's important to note this is simply a timing issue.
We haven't lost any orders.
But given its likelihood at the present time backlog at the end of our fiscal year is now expected to be in the range of $800 million to $900 million for Tactical Communications.
This is still very healthy and continues to support our fiscal 2012 guidance.
Key orders in the U.S.
market during the quarter included $70 million to deliver encryption devices and support services for the Blue Force Tracking system used by the U.S.
Army and U.S.
Marine Corps.
Total orders for these encryption devices and support now exceed $100 million.
Also $40 million from the Army for Falcon II HF vehicular systems; $23 million from the Air Force for Falcon III multiband handheld radios; and $9 million from the Army for HF radios for use in the Joint Biological Point Detection System.
And this is an important new application for our communication systems.
The U.S.
Department of Defense continues to accelerate its adoption of Harris Falcon III wideband networking radios embracing our commercial enterprise business model.
We continue to believe that legacy communications which rely on large heavy single-band single-mission radios used primarily for voice are far beyond their useful life.
The modern battlefield where war fighters have to simultaneously deal with multiple threats require high-bandwidth network communications capability driven down to individual soldiers.
Their increasingly complex missions require video e-mail collaborative chat and multiple waveform application availability.
The upgrade from narrowband to wideband radios will occur on a large scale and Harris will continue to lead this transformation.
Ultimately the DoD installed base of legacy radios represents a $10 billion market opportunity for Harris.
Turning to International.
Orders in the quarter came from diverse regions around the world and included multiple types of products and systems.
They included $29 million from a country in Asia to provide the next phase of their integrated C4ISR project and a $22 million order from the same country for Falcon III Secure Personal Radios; $19 million from a country in Southeast Asia for Falcon III and Falcon II tactical radios; $11 million from the Australia Department of Defence for Falcon III tactical radios as part of their networked battlefield communication system; $10 million from an international customer to provide a secure tactical network communication system and this one is comprised of Falcon III Falcon II as well as our public safety land mobile radios; a $10 million order from the Afghanistan National Army for Falcon III multiband handheld tactical radios; and a $5 billion order from a nation in East Africa for Falcon II and Falcon III tactical radios.
Our fiscal 2012 outlook for Tactical Communications remains solid.
We closed the third quarter with healthy opportunity pipelines: $1 billion in the U.S.
market and $2.6 billion in international markets.
While some of the increase from the previous International pipeline of $2 billion reflects the timing issues I referred to most of the increase is due to additional new identified opportunities.
Our expanded regional hubs are playing a key role.
In the U.K.
we're serving Europe and Western Asia.
In the United Arab Emirates we're serving the Middle East Central Asia and Africa; our new hub in Australia will be serving throughout Asia-Pacific; and our hub in Miami Florida providing service to Latin America.
Now all of these hubs are increasingly effective in securing new business for Harris.
Each locations hosts sales and business development staff a customer briefing center to show customers the capabilities of our products along with system engineering and technical support resources.
We're also continuing to expand our addressable markets by investing in new international products and by extending our reach into large integrated communication systems projects.
Orders in Public Safety and Professional Communications in the third quarter were $371 million compared to $168 million in the prior year and included most notably a $291 million order to design and deploy the First Responder Radio Communications System throughout Alberta Canada.
This is a province-wide public safety communications network.
And also orders included $15 million from Dane County Wisconsin to upgrade their public safety communications system with our digital P25 IP solution.
For the past several quarters we've seen some opportunities in this market push out due to constrained state and local budgets.
But on the positive side we're finally beginning to see a pickup in new bid and proposal activity and we view this as a very encouraging sign.
Overall our pipeline of public safety and professional communications opportunities remains large at $3 billion.
Revenue in the Government Communications Systems segment in the quarter was $431 million up 1% from the prior year.
Revenue growth on a pro forma basis was about 7% higher in the quarter and this is when you exclude the Field Data Collection Automation program for the U.S.
Census Bureau which declined by $24 million year-over-year as expected.
Of course the winding down of the 2010 Census program represents a total of $80 million in year-over-year revenue decline for fiscal 2011 in total.
Revenue increased in the quarter on the GOES-R program for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration as well as on the F-35 Lightning II fighter aircraft program for the DoD.
Slowing U.S.
Government spending continued to impact revenue on several of our classified programs.
I'll remind you that a portion of our Classified business consists of short-cycle programs.
And these were hit particularly hard in the case of a continuing resolution where funding for new programs is not always available.
Segment operating income in the third quarter was $60 million and operating margin was very strong at 13.9%.
During the third quarter we achieved several significant program wins in the business.
And these included a $15 million delivery order from the Air Force for telemetry modules for the Advanced Medium-Range Air-to-Air Missile program; also a new 3-year contract to build Ka-band antennas for 3 Inmarsat-5 satellites which will be the backbone of a worldwide wireless broadband network; and another order for a 3-year contract to build a 22-meter deployable L-band reflectors to support military and civilian communications in Mexico.
Together these programs have a combined value of more than $100 million and illustrate the current strength in the global satellite market; and finally after the close of the quarter Harris received an $11 million contract from the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency.
We also introduced an important new capability this quarter we call the KnightHawk 3G.
This is our ruggedized mobile tactical base station that when it's combined with our Falcon III 117G wideband networking radio enables war fighters on the move to maintain cellular services in locations with limited or no connectivity.
The KnightHawk 3G allows war fighters to train fight communicate more effectively and report to commanders in real time regardless of their location.
Moving to the new Integrated Network Solutions segment.
Revenue in the third quarter grew 23% to $463 million.
Organic revenue was about flat compared with the prior year.
Broadcast Communications showed strong revenue growth of 9% while revenue declined in Harris' IT Services business as a result of the slowing U.S.
Government spending including the disruption caused by the continuing resolution.
Segment non-GAAP operating income was $32 million 6.8% of sales.
Operating income benefited both from acquisitions as well as much-improved performance in Broadcast Communications.
Broadcast Communication business was profitable in the quarter and is still on target to be at breakeven for the fiscal year.
That's a significant year-over-year improvement.
These profit improvements were partially offset however by an operating loss in the Cyber Integrated Solutions business.
We talked about this last quarter as we continued to invest in this large and fast-growing market.
Also we talked about last quarter lower pricing and the contract extension for the Navy Marine Corps intranet program and that's impacting year-over-year Harris IT Services margins.
Major Integrated Network Solutions orders or program wins in the quarter included 14 task orders totaling $150 million to provide C- Ku- and X-band space segment capacity monitoring and control teleport services and operations and maintenance to DoD agency customers located around the world.
Also a $15 million contract extension from the U.S.
Department of Veterans Affairs for systems engineering services for their VistA imaging application.
A $4 million contract to provide local operations and support to the U.S.
Army Dental Command at Fort Sam Houston Texas Fort Campbell Kentucky Fort Bragg North Carolina and internationally at bases in Korea and Germany.
We received a $9 million order from a country in Central Asia for our broadcast solutions including master control rooms production studios playout and news centers.
Also in Broadcast the contract for the installation of an advanced digital out-of-home and IPTV network for the new Madison Square Garden transformation project.
More than 1 100 arena displays will deliver a dynamic viewing experience to fans at MSG going forward.
This project will commence this summer and be completed for the 2013 2014 season.
Continuing orders from traditional U.S.
broadcast stations also were received in the quarter including from Gray Communications Cox Broadcasting and CBS.
And we received a $10 million order from Virtual Computing Environment Corporation (sic) [Company] or VCE for trusted enterprise cloud solutions.
This is an important milestone for our Cyber Integrated Solutions business.
Harris also recently announced a strategic alliance with VCE and their majority owner EMC that's expected to accelerate the growth of cloud Infrastructure-as-a-Service.
As part of this strategic alliance development teams from Harris RSA and VCE are integrating patented Harris technologies within the VCE Vblock infrastructure platform.
We expect together to deliver unparalleled levels of visibility control security performance and availability in the cloud environment.
EMC and VCE are also actively engaged in joint marketing with Harris to create Trusted Enterprise Cloud services demand.
Turning to the Healthcare Solutions business.
We announced the formation of a joint venture with Johns Hopkins Medicine to develop next-generation medical imaging management solutions.
This collaboration brings together Harris' industry-leading health information capabilities and security technologies with Johns Hopkins renowned clinical expertise.
The new image management solutions will be deployed first by the entire Johns Hopkins health system.
And later we'll market this to other hospitals and healthcare providers around the country.
At our broadcast team we introduced the new Selenio media convergence platform to the U.S.
market at the annual National Association of Broadcasters trade show.
With Selenio Harris introduced the industry's first integrated media convergence platform.
Traditional broadcast and IP signal distribution together can require the use of up to 45 different components 25 rack units of physical space consume 2 500 watts of power and require 131 connector cables.
Now let's compare that to Selenio.
Distribution requires one single component 3 rack units of vertical space consumes only 600 watts of power and requires only 14 cables.
So this is an amazing improvement and we think will lead to rapid adoption of the new Selenio technology globally across broadcast customers.
We continue to believe the Integrated Network Support segment is well positioned to deliver future revenue growth and margin expansion.
As we discussed during our Analyst Day in March we expect this segment to grow faster than other segments and achieve margins of 11% to 12% by fiscal 2014.
Let me now ask Harris CFO Gary McArthur to comment on our financial results during the quarter.
Thank you Howard.
Our balance sheet continues to be strong.
We ended the quarter with $885 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand of which $552 million was used to fund the acquisitions of Schlumberger GCS and Carefx both of which closed on April 4 the first day of our fourth quarter.
$870 million of the $1.05 billion under our 2 revolving credit facilities is available and no long-term debt maturities come due until October of 2015.
Return on invested capital remained strong at 21% while return on equity was at 27%.
During the quarter we used $50 million to repurchase 1.02 million shares of our outstanding stock at an average price of $49.02 per share and we currently have $300 million authorization remaining under our share repurchase program.
Cash flow from operations in the third quarter was weaker than expected primarily due to timing of U.S.
Government funding and payments decreasing $146 million to $168 million versus $314 million in the third quarter of the prior year.
In light of this we are decreasing our expectation for cash flow from operations for fiscal year 2011 to a range of $775 million to $825 million back to where we were with guidance as of the end of the first quarter and lower as compared to our most recent guidance of $800 million to $850 million.
Depreciation and amortization for the third quarter was $52 million as compared to $40 million for the third quarter of 2010 while capital expenditures were $88 million for the third quarter as compared to $94 million in the third quarter of the prior year.
Including the acquisitions of Schlumberger GCS and Carefx our guidance for depreciation and amortization and capital expenditures are both increasing by $5 million to ranges of $210 million to $220 million and $325 million to $345 million respectively.
Our non-GAAP effective tax rate for the third quarter was 31.7% and our outlook for the full year tax rate for fiscal 2011 now is 33%.
Our initial outlook for 2012 full year tax rate is 33.5% however the tax rate for any given quarter could vary up or down as a result of discrete tax events.
Other areas of guidance for fiscal 2012 are as follows: cash flow from operations $850 million to $900 million dollars; depreciation and amortization $280 million to $290 million; capital expenditures including capitalized software of $275 million to $300 million.
Our current priorities for cash that is expected to be generated remain the same: funding internal investments to drive growth and generate higher earnings pay appropriate dividends acquire companies that meet our strategic objectives and enhance financial returns and repurchase shares.
In summary we expect to finish fiscal 2011 on a very strong financial foundation with expectations for another very solid year in fiscal 2012.
Let me now turn it back to you Howard.
Thanks Gary.
Let me close with discussion about fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012 guidance.
We've updated our financial guidance for fiscal 2011 as follows.
Consolidated revenue is now expected to be approximately $5.9 billion and that's about 13% above fiscal 2010.
That compares to our previously expected revenue target of about $6 billion.
Non-GAAP income excluding acquisition-related costs is unchanged from our previous guidance still expected to be in the range of $4.80 to $4.90 per diluted share a year-over-year increase of 8% to 11%.
Non-GAAP earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization again excluding acquisition-related costs and expenses are now expected to be in a range from $1.22 billion to $1.24 billion representing an EBITDA increase of 11% to 13% above fiscal 2010.
For the RF Communications segment fiscal 2011 guidance is unchanged.
I'll just remind you that revenue is expected to be 9% to 10% higher than the prior year and operating margin for the full year expected to be between 34% and 35%.
For Government Communications Systems we now expect revenue for 2011 to be flat to 2% higher in fiscal 2010.
Previous range was 3% to 5% higher.
Segment operating margin is it still expected to be between 12.5% and 13%.
And for the Integrated Network Solutions segment we now expect revenue in a range of 33% to 35% higher than fiscal 2010 and that compares to our previous range of 36% to 38%.
And again it's due to the government budget impact at Harris IT Services.
Organic growth is now expected to be in a range of 4% to 6% over the prior year.
Non-GAAP segment operating margin is now expected to be a bit higher at 5% to 7%.
Previous margin guidance was in a range of 5% to 6%.
So that's a recap of 2011.
Let me now move on to fiscal 2012.
You'll recall we initiated guidance for 2012 in March.
And today I'll update that guidance provide more color around our 3 operating segments.
Consolidated revenue for fiscal 2012 is expected to be between 7% and 10% higher than fiscal 2011 with revenue between $6.3 billion and $6.5 billion.
Non-GAAP income excluding acquisition-related costs is still expected to be in a range of $5.10 to $5.20 per diluted share.
So no change in our guidance for non-GAAP EPS.
And this range represents a year-over-year increase of 5% to 7%.
Non-GAAP earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization excluding acquisition-related costs is expected to be in a  range from $1.34 billion to $1.38 billion.
That's a strong year-over-year increase in EBITDA of 9% to 12%.
Turning to color around the segments.
For RF Communications fiscal 2012 revenue is expected to be 2% to 4% higher than fiscal 2011.
With Tactical Communications business about flat with the prior year reflecting lower DoD revenue as we indicated at the March Analyst Meeting and correspondingly higher International revenue.
Public Safety and Professional Communications revenue is also expected to be higher in 2012.
Segment operating margin is expected to be in a range from 32% to 33%.
For the Government Communications Systems segment we expect revenue for fiscal 2012 to be 3% to 5% higher than fiscal 2011.
Segment operating margins are expected to be about 13%.
And for our new Integrated Network Solutions segment we expect revenue in a range of 18% to 20% higher than fiscal 2011 representing organic growth in a range of 9% to 11% compared to the prior year.
Non-GAAP segment operating margin is expected to be between 6% and 8%.
That's about 100 basis points above fiscal 2011 expectations.
We expect margins to grow faster in this segment beyond fiscal 2012 when the recent acquisitions have been fully integrated and we receive the full benefits of integration.
With that I will stop.
I'll ask the operator to open the line and we'll be pleased to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Carter Copeland of Barclays Capital.
Howard just a quick question a couple of quickies.
Well I wondered if you might provide a little bit more color on the delays you're seeing internationally as a result of the Mideast activities and whether or not that's funding related or just contracting and government busy with other things.
What's the story there? And did you see all of those delays this quarter? Or is there a bit of a guess for how much might move out of the upcoming quarters when compared to second half? Yes so the combined impact we think is about $100 million in tactical orders.
There's no one item.
It's a combination of things.
Orders that are going through the U.S.
FMS process are moving more slowly because of the continuing budget resolution.
And then you have situations like in Iraq where we're expecting to get an order from the Ministry of Defense except they haven't elected the new Minister of Defense who by law has to sign the order.
So it's a series of relatively small things but they add up to about $100 million.
We expect to get those orders in the first half of next year.
And we're not expecting that any of those will have a material impact on fiscal year '12.
We will start the year with a little less backlog but still very adequate backlog and order pipeline to reach the guidance we've provided for the year-over-year essentially maintaining our revenue with DoD lower as we've been talking now for several quarters offset by higher International business.
Great.
That's very helpful.
And another quick follow-up maybe for Gary.
With respect to the step-up that's implied in the fourth quarter for the INS margins after the past few quarters in a kind of 4% to 5% range what's going on there that's driving that step-up especially given the rate guidance? Is that just not a repeat of any losses in cyber integration? Or how should we be thinking about what's driving that progression? Well there are several pieces to it Carter.
I think some of it some of the integration that we've been working on with CapRock has taken place.
And so we expect to have benefits there.
Obviously we are now merging that with Schlumberger which has its own integration aspects to it.
We've got the business now of Carefx coming in which does carry a little higher margin where it's being integrated in with the Healthcare businesses.
And so it's several different parameters that are causing it.
I can't pick just want.
But Howard you wanted to comment as well? Yes just to say Carter that if you look at the 8-K where we restated the segments I think you'll find that the margin has now the first 3 quarters of the fiscal year and that the segment moved between 5% to 7%.
So we're very much in the range guidance for the year and the fourth quarter is going to be about in the same part of that range.
And the continued improvement in broadcast is helping us on the positive as well as the contribution from Harris CapRock.
And serving to offset a little bit of that is we expect the losses in Cyber to accelerate a little bit as we turn on the Cyber Integrated Solutions facility and business on June 1 and start to take some of the depreciation on the equipment there.
Your next question is from the line of Gautam Khanna of Cowen and Company.
LLC</strong> Could you give us -- you told us that the year-over-year decline was an MRAP-related sale.
Could you quantify what the absolute numbers were like you did last quarter please? In this quarter I think there were maybe $20 million $30 million of MRAP.
So last year we add $206 million to that.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And I know you mentioned the Tactical Communication orders list from a foreign side.
You've been running book-to-bill under one for the past 3 quarters.
I mean at what point should we be worried about if we don't get the order we got to  worry about the fiscal '12 forecast jut given lead times and the like? Well I don't think we have to worry about it at this point.
Obviously we've provided our segment guidance today and believe that we can achieve parity plus or minus in revenue of Tactical Comms next year versus this year.
We're going to be starting '12 with less backlog than we started '11 but we're going to be starting with a lot more backlog than we started fiscal '10 and pretty comparable backlog plus or minus to what we started fiscal '09.
So it's really as you know a combination of the backlog then coupled with the orders that you get.
When you get those orders then your ability to turn them.
We have a pretty efficient process.
We'll have the new manufacturing facility online significantly more capacity in place.
And so I think we're going to benefit from that new facility both in terms of being able to turn orders into revenue quickly but also turn orders into revenue at even more competitive cost.
So at this point not concerned.
And as we go forward to the next call and get into the fiscal year we'll talk about any seasonality that we expect in terms of how we expect to deliver on the comparable Tactical Communications revenue.
Does that make sense? LLC</strong> Yes it does.
I guess one other one just the high-level piece.
We're in a constrained DoD budget environment.
That's obvious.
We've had now too or we're about to have a change of Defense Secretary.
JTRS GMR still appears to be an underperforming program.
I mean what are the milestones that might actually set in motion the restructuring and/or cancellation of that? Do you have any sense for the milestones that will give your products a better opportunity to compete more formally in the DoD budget? Yes I think there are several continuing milestones.
Certainly the testing that is anticipated this summer that we've spoken about previously is going to be an important milestone.
We think we're very well positioned with the only field-deployed proven NSA-certified technology.
So we think that's a huge lead that we have.
Secondly we've recently seen a request for information kind of out of the JTRS JPEO office essentially asking for what they call nondevelopmental solutions for the GMR specification.
Translated in our view meaning already developed commercially developed technologies.
Again we think we're the only ones in a position to really meet the full spec and the time frame that they will want so that we can continue to deploy technologies to the brigade combat teams in Afghanistan and around the world.
So I certainly like our position more and more as it relates to the Falcon III technology.
And then finally remember we're going to be porting the SRW waveform very quickly into the Falcon III handheld and so we're going to have some amount of networking capability using the SRW networking waveform even in the handheld.
And you couple that with the announcement we made on the KnightHawk 3G capability to link battlefield tactical networks to 3G cellular networks and I just believe we continue to widen the lead that we have.
That doesn't mean there won't be competition.
Certainly there'll be competition.
But when it comes down to who can really deliver today I think we're in a very strong position.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Your next question is from the line of Rob Pakas [ph] with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
I just -- is there any way to quantify the potential opportunity out of the GMR program at this point or there's just too much speculation? We can talk in the future about the parameters.
I don't have all of those numbers in my head.
There are literally billions of dollars of procurements expected over a period of years as they deploy the JTRS-based technology in vehicular applications.
So it's a big big market.
And I think what's yet to be determined is exactly what the uptake of that will be.
I commented in my prepared remarks that there's $10 billion of radios deployed today that basically do one thing: They're single-band single-mission noncompatible with JTRS and there's about another $2.5 billion of radios that are compatible with JTRS but aren't wideband networking.
So you have this huge market in DoD that will be upgraded and transformed over time and it's really just a question of when.
We believe that the capabilities that we are providing will accelerate the adoption.
When you see what the radios can do it continually impresses the leadership in DoD which causes them to become proponents of investing budget dollars in these tactical radio deployments because they lead to more effective missions and ultimately save lives.
So those are the best most positive attributes you can have for your technologies.
Great stuff.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Your next question will come from the line of Larry Harris with CL King &amp; Associates.
Inc</strong> I wanted to talk a bit about the cyber security area.
A day doesn't go by where you hear about another network that has been attacked.
And so I was wondering if say in the past 30 60 90 days you've see additional interest either from commercial or government customers that could say help the profits or performance of this business in fiscal 2012? Larry the answer would be absolutely yes I think from a wide variety of commercial and government clients.
And almost a week doesn't go by that we hear of another cyber -- successful cyber attack or issues related to security for example taking down one of the Amazon cloud computing sites.
So I am more convinced every week that we're exactly in the right place and we're developing discriminating technology.
On the flipside the adoption of cloud computing is hard to predict and whether -- and what the uptake of orders and turning that into revenue for us which ultimately would drive profitability is still an estimate.
And I think we'll be monitoring very closely our funnel.
We'll be monitoring the uptake of new orders.
We are off to a good start but have pretty high expectations for '12 and beyond.
So we'll pay close attention to that.
But overall I don't believe this is a question of if we will be successful or cloud computing will take off or security and access to what's going on and compliance inside your cloud will be required.
I think its more a question of when and what will the actual uptake be with the new market.
That's sometimes difficult to peg.
But there's no question interest is high lots of meetings lots of proposals and then we'll have to see how those work through the funnel and turn into revenue.
We have a pretty high fixed cost in that business.
Once we get above that it's going to leverage profitability very very well.
But we've got to get to that breakeven point first.
Your next question is the line of Josh Sullivan of Gleacher &amp; Company.
On the CapRock business you had mentioned that TCS was more capital intensive versus the comps modeled that the legacy CapRock business followed.
I'm Just wondering if you've made any strategic decisions as far as you pursuing one or the other at this point.
No we haven't.
I think there was maybe a small difference.
And neither of them are hugely capital intensive a little more capital intensive than our traditional businesses at Harris but still relatively low capital.
And it has a lot to do with whether the customer rolls into the monthly costs for providing services the very small aperture antenna terminal or not.
And the more they include that then the more the capital is a little bit higher.
Other customers sometimes prefer to pay for that capitalize it themselves and then just buy the various services from us.
So there is a variety.
But I wouldn't expect it to be materially different across those 2 businesses as we put them together.
We are still engaged and you may also be thinking about discussions we've had about kind of the make-or-buy question.
CapRock traditionally bought VSATs and Schlumberger GCS designed and manufactured their own line of VSATs.
And so we certainly have that make-or-buy analysis going on to determine which makes the best sense from a cost standpoint as well as from a differentiation and solution standpoint.
Inc</strong> And so the follow-up.
How should we look at the VCE order as it relates to the volumes? I think you had mentioned that you're going to operate this segment more on cycle times or use.
I'm just trying to get an idea of how we should look at that order.
Well I'm not sure I have a lot of color to give you around it other than it's a $10 million contract.
It's providing services to VCE and perhaps to some of the affiliated companies.
And it is we feel an important first step.
It's our second client on board now and we look forward to being able to hopefully talk about additional ones once we finally open the door here on June 1 and move forward again.
To the previous question there's lots lots of discussion lots of interest.
And some of this I think though is going to take us to open the doors and then be able to show clients through our portal what's different about our services than that kind of consumer-grade services that you're going to get from an Amazon or a Google our price point's going to be higher because what we're going to be delivering in security and compliance and control is going to be a lot higher.
And so I think while we talk about a lot of that now to some extent it's brochureware until you're actually operating the center.
Your next question comes from the line of Ted Wheeler of Buckingham Research.
I wondered if you could circle back and help me on the timing on this request for nondevelopmental solutions for GMR.
Now with that -- how long will that take to work its way through? And when would the next news event from that be expected? I'm not sure we have a timeline so this will just be kind of my opinion Ted.
But my opinion is that they already know how the tests are going to run this summer and they're trying to get ahead of that cycle by starting with the RFI request for information and then they'll follow it with an RFP which will then go to selection.
I don't know whether that will be a couple of quarters or longer but I wouldn't expect it to be much longer than that.
And depending on the needs for the next capability set deployments it might be faster rather than slower.
But there is a cycle as you know.
It's RFI or RFP and then award.
And I think the fact that they've start the RFI before the tests is a little bit of a leading indicator of how they expect the tests to turn out.
Inc.</strong> And one other question on timing.
What about the Alberta program? How will that sort of play out I guess on a run rate or duration or both is the second.
I think the deployment in total is over maybe 3 years.
We'll have a material amount of revenue in fiscal '12 from that program.
I don't think there's much in fiscal '11 just a little bit.
And to remind you with these programs I think it's pretty typical what we will be doing during the initial deployment phases is putting in the systems and the infrastructure along with our partners.
That's typically a little lower margin business.
And then toward the end of it are the opportunities to sell the terminals both portable as well as mobile and much higher margin opportunities.
So we'll expect to see pickup in revenue certainly profitability but not at the level we'll ultimately get to when we're able to deploy the terminals into the completed system.
So at any given time we've got a large number of these projects at different phases.
But given that we took over the business it wasn't growing all that much.
We've had good success in growing it.
We still have a lot of programs that are kind of toward the front end of that cycle.
I think we talked about that previously as it relates to our margins.
So some of the margin uptake in this business that's going to feed into the segment is going to come from the mix of what we're selling.
Not necessarily that there's a lot of costs coming out but more that as the mix gets higher for selling terminals or radios the margins are going to be better than when you're selling a higher percentage of systems.
And I guess just lastly how's the pipeline I guess of conversations on programs? Not on maybe of that magnitude but these tend to be big programs for public safety.
Are there still ample folks being approached just working towards something? Yes there are.
The pipeline is about $3 billion.
It's been pretty steady even as we've been winning programs.
So that suggests that others are coming in.
We see this contrast day to day.
They're not hiring a lot of additional police officers or firefighters.
So the day to day add-on sales for an additional base station for more capacity or more radios for more people we're not seeing.
That's where budgets are absolutely being constrained because of state and local revenue income.
On the other hand the big projects continue to move along.
Many of them are already funded either funded through federal grants or they're funded through revenue-producing kinds of services or fee-based.
In Florida for example the statewide network its income from licenses of various kinds.
So there's still a number that are out there.
There are still a lot of very old technology analog technology that needs to be upgraded.
There's still a requirement for going to this narrow banding so they can give up frequency for the other uses.
And then finally you've got the opportunity being offered by the introduction of this LTE fourth generation of broadband technology.
And we think we're going to be in a very strong position to integrate converge networks of LTE 4G for wideband along with our traditional narrowband LMR radio technology.
So we're feeling very positive about the market.
We wish that the state and local funds were a little clear as it related to the higher margin add-on kind of business.
But overall I think we're very pleased with the progress we've made since we bought the business.
Have some new leadership in place.
Very pleased with how that is coming along.
Very pleased with the strides that we've made in the sales organization sales leadership channel partners having signed up a couple of Motorola dealers.
To me lots of positive signs.
It never comes as quickly as we want but the progress is definitely a there.
Inc.</strong> Sounds great.
Your next question comes from the line of Josephine Schmiller [ph] of Benchmark Company.
Congratulations on your Cyber order.
Howard can you talk about what you're expecting from Cyber in '12 and what a breakeven point might look like? Well I don't want to be that quite specific from a competitive standpoint.
But certainly we have made investments now of north of $175 million as it relates to all the infrastructure including customer-facing equipment maybe even approaching $200 million.
So it's fair to say that you've got to get revenue certainly let's say well above $50 million to be able to even at very high gross margins cover those fixed costs and fixed expenses.
Our expectations are higher than that.
And as I said earlier on the call we'll have to see how to takeup is.
I think this is a business where we don't want to be too short term in our thinking or we won't invest and we'll miss what is what we expect -- and we're not the experts on this what everyone in the market expects to be a major transformation in how IT is delivered to users over the next decade.
We've got a strong leadership position some very discriminating technology.
And I really don't want us to be penny-wise and pound foolish.
I think that will be a mistake for the opportunity to build long-term shareholder value.
Having said that we're going to try and match expenses to revenue as best we can.
And we've tried to bake into our guidance for next year expectations as it relates to our Cyber business that we can meet.
Okay I have a follow-up question on JTRS.
The Army recently talked about trying to stop funding R&amp;D funding for the JTRS GMR radio.
What do you think happened to the $1 billion in the '11 defense budget allocated to JTRS? It seems a big chunk of that is related to GMR R&amp;D and will that flow-through the upcoming solicitation? Can you comment on that Howard? Well we can't say for sure but we certainly hope that a portion of that will go not for R&amp;D of a radio that is not going to be competitively priced based on its features but that it will go toward procurement so that we can put more radios in the hands of our war fighters.
So certainly that's what we are promoting and I think a lot of people are starting to turn that direction.
And it's very logical given the performance of the Falcon III radios in the field.
So we're certainly very very optimistic.
But until the '12 budgets are approved everything is still up for negotiation.
We are certainly engaged in that to the extent possible and trying to influence a positive outcome for Harris.
Sounds good.
Your next question comes from Joe Nadol of JPMorgan.
It'll be very quick Pam.
I have a couple of quick ones and I'll ask them at once.
One is just mechanically with the sales guidance coming down a little bit what's the offset to keep EPS the same after both this year and next year? And the second question is a very significant increase in that pipeline the International pipeline from $2 billion to $2.6 billion so 30% $100 million of that is the slip presumably.
And so it's a $0.5 billion increase.
And Howard I was wondering if you could talk about and maybe give a little more color as to what's in there? Is that the systems emphasis you've been talking about? Is that just geographical? Just anything more you can give.
Well to your second question first I would love to be able to be more specific country by country.
But increasingly and you're seeing this in our reports we're not able to divulge the individual countries.
Security and deployment of these technologies is becoming more and more of an issue.
So I really can't go country by country.
I can tell you that it's a well diversified mix of opportunities.
It's our traditional tactical radios it's our new products like the Falcon fighter the secure personal radio high-capacity line of sight high-capacity data radios and a mix of services and systems that we wrap around that.
But it's a very good cross-section and I think real opportunities.
You can imagine I'm a skeptic when I see that kind of an increase.
And we've scrubbed the pipeline to make sure it's real and we're very comfortable that it is.
To your first point in terms of the FY '11 Gary talked about a little better on the tax rate and we also raised about 100 basis points the expectation for the new Integrated Network Solutions return on sales for '11.
So that's offsetting the margins associated with the $100 million in revenue in government programs and IT services.
We haven't provided that level of detail in '12.
We felt we had adequate comfort in the guidance we've provided to maintain the EPS guidance even in the face again of about $100 million lower revenue.
So we're still very comfortable in our growth rates and margins for next year.
I think '12 is going to turn out to be a good year for us as we go forward.
All right operator.
And everyone on the call thank you so much.
Appreciate you joining us.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2011 Harris Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Anne and I will be your coordinator for today's call.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to Pamela Padgett Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Hello everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter fiscal 2011 conference call.
I'm Pamela Padgett.
On the call today is Howard Lance Chairman President and CEO; and Gary McArthur Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
A few words about forward-looking statements.
In the course of this teleconference management may make forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements involve assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those statements.
For more information on the discussion of such assumptions risks and uncertainties please see the press release and filings made by Harris with the SEC.
In addition in our press release and on this teleconference and the related presentation we will discuss certain financial measures and information that are non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to the comparable GAAP measures is included in tables in our press release and on the Investor Relations section of our website which is www.harris.com.
A replay of this call will also be available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
And with that Howard I'll turn the call over to you.
Thank you Pam and let me welcome all of you to our fourth quarter fiscal 2011 earnings call.
To provide added clarity to the call this time we've posted some slides on our website and we'll be referring to those throughout the conference call.
Beginning first with Slides 3 and 4.
We ended fiscal 2011 with another solid quarter.
Revenue was $1.67 billion increasing 15%.
Organic revenue growth was 4% and that was driven by 11% growth in our Government Communications Systems segment and 7% growth in our new Integrated Network Solutions segment.
Flat year-over-year revenue in RF Communications was we think an excellent outcome for this business as we make our way beyond the large tactical radio shipments in the prior year to equip MRAP vehicles.
The first quarter of fiscal 2012 will be our last tough compare as we reset our baseline for future growth.
There were certainly highlights in the quarter as our Public Safety and Professional Communications business posted strong revenue growth of 9% and a record quarter end backlog of the $737 million.
Our move into this very close adjacent market during fiscal 2009 is contributing nicely to both our revenue growth and higher operating income.
The Broadcast Communications business posted 37% growth in orders 31% growth in revenue and a solid profit.
Harris IT Services posted 8% top line growth and higher profitability.
And Harris CapRock Communications delivered a solid profit number in the quarter.
On the downside our new initiatives in Healthcare and Cyber will take time to contribute to earnings.
Both businesses had operating losses in the quarter.
And about $100 million in International Tactical Communications orders slipped to the right as a result of political uncertainty in Central Asia the Middle East and Northern Africa.
Non-GAAP earnings per share were $1.24 in the quarter and flat with the prior year.
Of course again the prior year benefited significantly from the large MRAP shipments.
Fourth quarter 2011 adjusted EBITDA was $320 million and that was a 7% increase.
We think this is a very encouraging sign for future earnings growth.
Throughout fiscal 2012 we should see this upward trend in EBITDA continue as we finish integrating the new acquisitions and they begin to significantly contribute to our growth and higher earnings.
For the full fiscal year 2011 revenue was $5.92 billion an increase of 14% and about a 5% higher on an organic basis.
Non-GAAP earnings per share were $4.89 an increase of 10% and adjusted EBITDA was $1.23 billion an increase of 11%.
We are incredibly proud of these results delivered by our team especially in the year where we faced an extended U.S.
government continuing budget resolution lower MRAP shipments lower state and local government spending and a drilling moratorium for part of the year in the Gulf of Mexico.
At the same time these challenges were occurring we increased our investments in new vertical market growth initiatives which we believe will be a major driver of long-term growth and higher earnings for the company.
Moving now to the segment results.
First on Slide 5.
Fourth quarter revenue for the RF Communications segment was $628 million as indicated flat with the prior year.
Large shipments of tactical radios in the prior year to equip MRAP vehicles continue to create difficult year-over-year comparisons for us in both revenue and income.
As expected operating income in the fourth quarter was lower at $191 million compared with non-GAAP operating income in the prior year quarter of $227 million.
Operating margins in the fourth quarter were 30.4%.
Our new manufacturing facility in Rochester New York is up and running ahead of schedule and we're back at full production.
The new facility consolidates multiple facilities into 1 location reducing production cycle times and creating a number of operational efficiencies.
We now have a single facility of sufficient size layout and capabilities to fully implement the lean production processes that we need to further reduce our product cost.
The new facility will provide cost savings and creates a state-of-the-art high-volume manufacturing capability for products across the RF segment including our Unity mobile radio which is newly introduced to the market and our 700 megahertz LTE subscriber terminals.
Tactical Communications revenue was $472 million in the fourth quarter a decline of 3% compared with the prior year.
Again we believe this was an excellent result given that MRAP radio deliveries declined by $200 million year-over-year.
If we look at the non-MRAP revenue to the Department of Defense it actually increased significantly in the quarter driven by continuing Falcon III product adoption to support the DoD vision for wideband networking throughout the battlefield in Armed Forces.
International revenue growth was driven in the quarter by major deliveries to the Australian Ministry of Defense and a number of countries in the Middle East and Asia.
Public Safety and Professional Communications revenue was $156 million in the fourth quarter as indicated increasing 9% compared to the prior year.
A series of important contract wins led to the best quarter since acquiring this business in fiscal 2009.
Turning to orders.
RF segment orders were $447 million in the quarter with Tactical Communications orders accounting for $257 million of this total.
Our Tactical Communications backlog stood at $766 million at the end of the year.
Ongoing political instability in Northern Africa the Middle East and Central Asia has continued to delay some of our international orders.
While the delays are certainly unfortunate in the near term they will get sorted out eventually.
And we're confident that our business will benefit in the long term from this business.
In the U.S.
market important orders during the quarter included $25 million from Marine Corps for Falcon III radios and remote control systems $18 million for Falcon II HF vehicular radio systems for Army vehicles.
Several orders for our Falcon III 117G multiband manpack radios and these included $12 million from DoD in support of requirements for wideband networking $16 million from the Army to provide ground forces with expanded interoperable voice and high-bandwidth data communications and $9 million from the Air Force in support of new emerging applications in situational awareness intelligence and analysis and real-time battlefield collaboration.
And we were also awarded an IDIQ contract with a $60 million ceiling from the Navy for our new Technical Key Loader encryption devices along with an initial order against that contract of $6 million.
Consistent with our roadmap we are introducing additional features and functionality to our Falcon III JTRS product offering.
This will widen our technology and product lead in the U.S.
market and equally importantly this lead ultimately fuels our continued leadership in the international markets.
First we expect to receive NSA certification in the next few weeks for the SRW waveform in our Falcon III 117G wideband networking manpack radio and shipments will begin to customers immediately after.
As promised we will be first-to-market with an NSA-certified radio incorporating SRW the Soldier Radio Waveform for JTRS.
At the same time we expect to receive NSA certification for and begin shipping our Falcon III AN/PRC-152A handheld radio which will have new wideband networking capability using the Harris ANW2 waveform.
And then shortly down the road in October we'll begin demonstrations where we will include the SRW waveform also in the 152A.
So we're going to end up with a very very capable JTRS handheld radio.
That's going to include the SRW waveform the ANW2 waveform and Type-1 NSA certification and of course remember that 152A is also backward compatible with legacy radio waveforms in the field such as SINCGARS.
Now for a second compare that with the new Rifleman Radio.
Rifleman really has a very narrow mission to provide position location information up echelon using the SRW waveform.
For example it doesn't have wideband capability or NSA Type-1 capability nor does it have the ability to communicate with legacy radios using waveforms such as SINCGARS where there's over 400 000 units deployed in the field.
We think this creates a significant differentiation and once again Harris takes the lead with radio technology.
In June and July Harris was invited to participate for the first time in the U.S.
Army Network Integration Evaluation or NIE exercise held at Fort Bliss Texas and White Sands Missile Range in New Mexico.
The NIE is a series of semi-annual evaluations designed to evaluate the Army's tactical network capabilities and to promote competition among the multiple programs of record and viable commercial solutions and this is all part of the Army's evolving network acquisition strategy.
The NIE involves a series of user test and evaluations with the goal to speed the deployment of an integrated battlefield network while making sure the technologies are ready for prime time use in the field by the warfighter.
I'm pleased to say that Harris delivered its combat-proven wideband networking capability through the Falcon III 117G as part of the evaluation.
The Army evaluated our 117G radios as a vehicular-based mobile wideband tactical communications network enabling this network using to Harris ANW2 wideband waveform.
Our radio successfully formed a 30-node network across a range of military vehicles included company command post-platforms and provided reliable access to a number of applications such as the tactical ground reporting system combat chat and the transfer of multimedia mission command files.
It was a major success in our view.
We received great user feedback and valuable insights into both our radio and waveform functionality and we'll be quickly incorporating these insights into our future product releases.
We will expand our participation in the next NIE scheduled for October and this will include incorporation of the Falcon III 117G with SRW and the Falcon III 152A handheld with both the SRW and the ANW2 waveforms.
Bottom line we came away from these series of tests more convinced than ever that our radios are in fact the most advanced in the world.
No competing radios come close to delivering the performance and cost that we can offer our customers.
Turning to international orders in the quarter.
We had a $16 million order from a country in Africa to provide HF radios a $10 million order from a country in Southeast Asia for Falcon III and Falcon II tactical radios a $5 million order from Brazil for Falcon III VHF tactical radios.
These will provide the Brazilian Armed Forces with next-generation voice and high-speed data communications.
Also a $5 million order from Canada for Falcon III 117G multiband manpack radios as well as our RF-7800B tactical satellite communication system.
These systems will provide Canada's Armed Forces with next-generation tactical comms in support of a number of network-enabled applications including video and collaborative chat.
And finally we received a $4 million follow-on order from France for the 117G.
The 117G is quickly becoming the radio of choice by all of our NATO allies for their high-end mission requirements.
We closed the fourth quarter with healthy opportunity pipelines in the Tactical Communications business $1 billion in the U.S.
and $2.3 billion in international.
Large opportunities in the U.S.
pipeline exists for follow-on business for the Falcon III radios in the Army Marine Corps and Air Force.
Also the U.S.
pipeline includes opportunities which will be procured through new IDIQ contracts that we expect imminently from the Navy and the Special Operations Command.
The international pipeline is highlighted by significant opportunities with the Iraq Ministry of Interior and Ministry of Defense the Australia Ministry of Defense United Arab Emirates as well as other nations in Africa Asia and Southeast Asia.
As we stated before some orders have been delayed in the international market during the last 2 quarters but none have been lost to competition.
We've already indicated that Public Safety and Professional Communications had a great quarter.
Orders in the fourth quarter were $190 million higher than the prior year quarter and certainly also had a book-to-bill of greater than 1.
Orders included a $50 million order from the Oregon Department of Transportation to deliver a new P25 system which will support the mission-critical communication needs of ODOT as well as the Oregon State Police.
This program includes 4 200 Unity multiband mobile radios and it will be the first large-scale deployment of our new vehicular version of the Unity radio.
This is a very important extension of the Unity family of multiband radios and of course Unity allows interoperability across a much wider band of frequencies than any other radio in the market.
The program in Oregon also includes an integrated statewide network which will allow Oregon to comply with the federal narrowbanding mandate that is governing spectrum use for land mobile radio systems.
And the initial $50 million order is part of a 10-year contract that is expected to have a total value of more than $100 million.
We also received 3 other significant orders we want to call out in the quarter $24 million from Floyd County Georgia for a P25IP digital radio system an $18 million order from Linn County Iowa again for a P25IP trunked radio system.
And again this contract includes the Harris Unity multiband portable radios as well.
And then finally a $12 million order from the city of Chicago Office of Emergency Management Communications for our Maestro dispatch consoles.
In summary we continue to see a steady recovery in new bid and proposal activity in the Public Safety markets and our pipeline of opportunities for this business remains very large at $3 billion.
Let me move on now to Slide 6 and talk about our Integrated Network Solutions segment.
Revenue in the fourth quarter increased by 45% $585 million and of course benefited from the acquisitions of CapRock Communications and the Schlumberger Global Connectivity Services business.
But we also had strong performance on an organic basis with revenue growing by 7% above the prior year.
Our Broadcast Communications business showed excellent revenue growth with 31%.
Harris IT Services revenue increased by 8%.
Revenue from Harris CapRock Communications was about flat with the prior year on a pro forma basis.
Segment non-GAAP operating income was much higher at $32 million or 5.5% of sales income benefited from the vastly improved performance in Broadcast Communications compared to the prior year.
Broadcast was profitable in the quarter and for the fiscal year in total following the market downturn experienced over the past couple of years.
Harris CapRock Communications and Harris IT Services income were also well above the prior quarter.
Our Healthcare and Cyber businesses posted a combined $16 million loss in the quarter as a result of the Carefx acquisition and the opening of our Cyber Integration Center in Virginia and its related depreciation and overhead expense.
Several new contract wins in the quarter worth mentioning a 3-year master service agreement with a potential value of $58 million to operate the Offshore Communications Backbone in the Eastern Mediterranean.
First year of the agreement is worth up to $22 million.
We signed a 2-year $13 million contract to provide offshore satellite communications with Odfjell Drilling in Norway.
This includes a provision of turnkey VSAT services voice and Internet services.
It's a significant expansion of our existing business with Odfjell and we think demonstrates the value of both our local presence and very strong client relationships.
We also were awarded 2 3-year contracts valued at $3 million from Devon Energy in Brazil for our telecommunications and professional services.
Devon Energy is a leading independent natural gas and oil exploration company.
We also received a 5-year IDIQ contract which has a very large ceiling of $12 billion from the Department of Veterans Affairs.
This is associated with what they call their T4 program Transformation Twenty-One Total Technology allowing the VA to upgrade their IT systems.
It'll streamline and modernize their operations including patient care delivery at over 150 VA hospitals.
We also received a 2-year blanket purchase agreement with a ceiling of $199 million from the VA for a separate initiative called Enhance the Veteran Experience and Access to Healthcare.
Here the goal of the VA is to expand healthcare access for veterans who reside in rural areas.
And in the Broadcast division we received orders totaling $16 million in the quarter from Turkmenistan Television the state broadcaster in the country.
This project comprises a full range of broadcast solutions from Harris and the seamless interoperability of our solutions we believe was the determining factor in the contract award.
We're continuing our global integration efforts at Harris CapRock Communications.
During the quarter we announced Tom Eaton as President of this business.
Tom has a remarkable track record in positioning businesses for their next phase of growth.
We also officially opened during the quarter the new Harris Cyber Integration Center in Virginia.
This center will provide cloud computing services for customers within a trusted environment.
The Cyber Integration Center has already won national awards for its energy efficiency and innovation.
And we continue our collaboration with leading IT companies including Hewlett-Packard Sendmail RedHat BMC and VCE who continue to seek partnership with Harris and we believe this continues to validate with our technology and our security differentiation.
In the near term however we are experiencing a much longer selling cycle in the Cyber business than we had previously expected.
Customers are beginning with small pilot projects and proofs-of-concept before moving their larger applications into the cloud.
This will allow the effect of postponing revenue and income out of our fiscal 2012 into fiscal 2013 resulting in a fiscal 2012 operating loss for Cyber currently estimated at about $30 million.
Obviously we're taking steps to improve that outcome and we'll keep you posted on future calls.
In the Healthcare Solutions business we completed the acquisition of Carefx Corporation at the beginning of fourth quarter.
Carefx brings interoperable workflow and clinical analytics solutions to the Harris Healthcare portfolio.
Carefx solutions are aimed at enabling improved operating efficiencies and access to vital clinical data within hospitals.
Let me give you an example.
Hartford Hospital in Connecticut recently implemented a business intelligent dashboard from Carefx to better understand their patient flow trends and to cut the patient length of stay.
Hartford increased its early discharge rate nearly threefold after implementing our dashboard.
These kinds of success stories will continue to help Harris Healthcare Solutions penetrate the commercial healthcare market and strengthen its overall position as a leading provider of interoperability solutions to both commercial and government customers.
In Broadcast Communications international broadcast sales and growth in new media are both driving higher revenue.
In addition to the orders already mentioned for Turkmenistan we're experiencing orders growth in Asia and Latin America and we recently installed our first digital signage system in the U.K.
at Harrod's.
In the U.S.
we're in collaboration with Digital Display Networks Inc.
and ABC to create one of the largest digital out-of-home advertising networks in the world 7-Eleven TV.
Digital Display Networks is providing content production ABC as the sales agent for advertising and Harris is providing its InfoCaster hardware and Punctuate software along with our managed services and content delivery capabilities.
We're already installed in over 3 000 7-Eleven stores.
Promotional advertising content has been successfully running on the network for several months.
ABC has secured a number of new ad sales and is managing a solid pipeline for the future.
Bottom line we remain very excited about this project in the emerging digital out-of-home market in general.
In summary we continue to be enthusiastic about the future of the new Integrated Network Solutions segment.
As the integration of our new acquisitions and the maturing of our new businesses occurs INS will in fact be a major driver of Harris EPS growth going forward.
Moving to Slide 7.
Government Communications Systems segment revenue was $500 million in the fourth quarter an excellent 11% growth from the prior year.
Revenue increases were driven by the GOES-R program for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration by our new product line Highband Networking Radios for the U.S.
Army and by satellite reflector programs for several commercial customers.
Segment operating income in the fourth quarter was $63 million with margins at a strong 12.7% of sales.
Fourth quarter wins in Government Communications included a $19 million follow-on contract to supply more than 100 Harris Highband Networking Radio systems for the Army Warfighter Information Network Tactical or WIN-T program.
This order is an addition to $6 million contract award from the Army during the quarter for rapid deployment of HNR radios into Afghanistan.
This Harris product really redefines battlefield communications with high-capacity wireless networking between both mobile and fixed platforms.
Using a breakthrough radio waveform and directed beam antenna technology the Harris HNR establishes self-forming self-healing mesh network capable of delivering voice video and data over very large geographic areas.
In the quarter we also received a 42-month potential $57 million follow-on contract -- $57 million follow-on contract with the FAA.
This is to upgrade and manage the system that provides real-time weather data and flight planning for Alaska general aviation.
We also received 2 1-year classified contracts totaling $83 million and a 4-year $32 million classified contract in addition.
So our national intelligence business tempo is definitely increasing.
After the close of the quarter Harris was selected for a 10-year $85 million contract award from the FAA as a prime contractor to the Alaska Satellite Telecommunications Infrastructure program.
Harris will replace and upgrade the existing SATCOM network and -- that links the Alaska Air Route Traffic Control Center in Alaska -- in Anchorage Alaska with 64 other FAA facilities throughout the region.
So with that let me now turn it over to our CFO Gary McArthur to comment on the financial results for the quarter.
Thank you Howard.
Turning to Slide 8.
Fiscal year 2011 was another very solid financial year for Harris.
We ended the year with $367 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand.
We generated $833 million of operating cash flow $508 million of free cash flow repurchased $250 million of our outstanding stock and paid $127 million in dividends.
None of our outstanding long-term debt comes due prior to October 2015.
And as of year end we had $870 million available under our $1 050 000 000 combined revolving credit facilities.
As to the fourth quarter cash flow generated from operating activities was $276 million as compared to $167 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 and capital expenditures were $129 million for the fourth quarter as compared to $62 million in the fourth quarter of the prior year.
The $67 million higher capital expenditures resulted primarily from the fit-out of our new RF manufacturing facility that is now fully up and operational the Cyber Security Solutions facility whose grand opening was in late May and capital expenditures at INS as a result of the CapRock and Schlumberger acquisitions.
Depreciation and amortization was $63 million for the fourth quarter as compared to $45 million for the fourth quarter of the prior year.
Our non-GAAP effective tax rate for the fourth quarter was 32.5%.
During the quarter we increased our share buyback to $100 million.
We purchased 2 million shares at an average purchase price of $48.83 per share.
Total shares repurchased during fiscal 2011 were 5.3 million or 4.2% of our outstanding shares.
As announced in our press release we replaced our existing share repurchase program with $1 billion new program under which we expect to repurchase up to $500 million worth of our shares largely by the end of this calendar year or roughly 8% to 9% of the shares outstanding.
Further we announced a 12% dividend increase that takes our quarterly dividend from $0.25 to $0.28 our 10th year in a row of double-digit increases.
Moving to Slide 9.
We revised guidance for fiscal 2012 as follows: cash flow from operations in a range of $825 million to $875 million; depreciation and amortization of $280 million to $290 million; and capital expenditures including capitalized software of $265 million to $285 million.
Our non-GAAP effective tax rate is now expected to be 33% compared with our prior guidance of 33.5%.
The tax rate for any given quarter could vary up or down as a result of discrete tax events occurring therein.
We continue to operate from a position of financial strength which allows us to invest for the future while delivering significant value to our shareholders in the forms of share repurchases and higher dividends.
Our outlook for operating cash flow remain strong and fiscal 2012 should be another year of solid financial returns.
Back to you Howard.
Thanks Gary.
Let me conclude my prepared remarks and talk about the 2012 outlook utilizing Slides 10 and 11.
We're updating our financial guidance for fiscal 2012 with consolidated revenue now expected to be between 4% and 6% higher than fiscal 2011 revenue between $6.15 billion and $6.3 billion.
Non-GAAP income excluding acquisition-related costs is now expected to be in a range from $5.10 to $5.30 per diluted share a year-over-year increase of 4% to 8%.
The changes between our prior outlook and current outlook reflect lower revenue and income in International Tactical Communications as well as increased losses in our Cyber business offset by higher expected income in Government Communications a slightly lower tax rate and the positive impact from our new share repurchase plan.
We'll certainly have a clearer picture of the timing of international orders and revenue as we move through the next 2 quarters which will help to tighten our EPS range going forward.
Now our current view to the distribution of EPS in fiscal 2012 is about 40% of the earnings in the first half and about 60% of the earnings in the second half with first quarter EPS in a range of $1 to $1.05 per share.
Back to full year guidance adjusted EBITDA is expected to be in a range from $1.28 billion to $1.32 billion that's a year-over-year increase of 4% to 8% in line with revenue.
For the RF Communications segment fiscal 2012 revenue is expected to be 3% to 6% lower than fiscal 2011 reflecting the timing of international orders turning into revenue.
So the new guidance now anticipates decline in Tactical Communications revenue of about 10% year-over-year versus our previous flat year-over-year revenue guidance.
We continue to expect double-digit growth in Public Safety and Professional Communications.
And our segment operating margins are now expected to be in the 33% to 34% range.
For our Integrated Network Solutions segment we expect revenue to be in a range of 16% to 18% higher than fiscal 2011 and that represents organic growth in a range of 7% and 9% higher.
Non-GAAP segment operating margin is expected to be between 5.5% to 6.5% which includes the anticipated operating losses of about $30 million in our Cyber business.
And finally for the Government Communications Systems segment we expect revenue for fiscal 2012 to be 2% to 4% higher than fiscal 2011 and segment operating margins are expected to be about 13.5% of revenue.
With that I'll ask the operator to open the line and we'll be pleased to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Carter Copeland with Barclays Capital.
So just a couple of quick questions.
First off on the share repurchase plan I mean obviously this is quite a big step up from where you've been before.
You're going to repurchase in the next 2 quarters more than you've done in the last 2 years combined -- 2 fiscal years combined.
So I just wondered if you might talk about the board's view here and what this may signal in terms of cash deployment your strategy there? How you're thinking about this? Is this something we should consider as a new norm? Has your view changed? How should we consider this? Well first of all we've consistently said that strategic acquisitions then dividends and then share repurchase have always been a part of our capital distribution and capital structure thinking.
As we look at acquisitions we've made a number of acquisitions in fiscal '11 and the focus in fiscal '12 is very much on integrating those acquisitions and delivering on the promise of them as well as the ones that had gone previously like the Public Safety business which as you see is really starting to pick up steam.
We certainly feel that a double-digit increase in our dividend rate is consistent with what we've done in the past as we target a payout ratio north of 20% and this will be consistent with that.
And so when we look at then the cash flow that we're going to generate from operating cash less our needs for the requirements for CapEx we felt that the current valuation of the shares that this was a very appropriate deployment of cash and makes a strong statement about the board and management's view of the future earnings potential for the company.
Whether this becomes the "norm" or not beyond that I think remains to be seen.
But the fact that we do have a $1 billion authorization suggest that there is another $500 million tranche that's going to be repurchased beyond fiscal year '12.
Great.
And as a follow up I wondered if we might revisit briefly the targets that you've laid out before in terms of the progression over the next couple of years both at INS and RF Communications.
It would seem there's probably some changes to those maybe not how should we think about your prior views of INS given a slower process in Cyber and perhaps some other areas within there as well as international is that just timing and we'll get back to the old target or is this something that needs to be reconsidered? Well I certainly still believe that the kind of 10% to 13% EPS growth targets over the 3-year time frame that we laid out are absolutely still achievable.
On the growth side I think we said 8% to 9% organic growth given that we're dropping off a little bit in '12 perhaps that 3-year CAGR would be just a little bit lower.
But the EPS targets I think are absolutely on track and the combination of the operational improvements we expect as well as contribution from slightly smaller share outstanding.
And our next question comes from the line of Pete Skibitski with SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> Howard on that roughly I guess 10% sales take down in RF Tactical I wonder if you could tell us how much of that relates to the U.S.
decision to freeze some Pakistani funding maybe an indication of when that might be alleviated the restriction there.
Pete I think that's a pretty small factor in that.
There's really no one country or one order but it's really been kind of a broad-based pushout across Northern Africa the Middle East and Central Asia.
We certainly think that while Pakistan is kind of on-hold currently we certainly expect that their relations there will warm and we'll see those -- that market open back up to us.
But in and of itself that one country is not the reason behind it.
It's really been everything that you've seen going on across the region over what's been a very tumultuous 6-month period and it's primarily politically-driven.
It's really not at all driven by expectations of somehow a lower security risk or a lower need for these communications.
So we're certainly frustrated now 2 quarters in a row to see about $100 million each quarter of orders pushed out.
But the good news is we haven't lost any orders and I actually think our product position is even strengthening as time goes on.
So we're going to see the orders come in at some point and get turned to revenue.
If that happens earlier in the year then certainly the high end of our guidance is possible.
If it doesn't happen until later in the year then it might be the lower end.
And that's why you see the range a little wider than it traditional is.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
A very quick one for Gary and I'll get out of the way.
Gary did you have any participating securities adjustments on the income statement in the quarter? I didn't see it in the release.
No none that I can think of Pete.
Inc.</strong> Okay because you typically have those each quarter correct? Participating not really.
I'd go back and have to look but I don't believe so.
I could be correct and I'll doublecheck but I don't believe so.
And our next question comes from the line of Gautam Khanna with Cowen and Company.
LLC</strong> So your new RF Tactical guidance is like $1.6 billion which implies today you have a 48% backlog to forward sales ratio which is among the lower end of what it's been historically.
I just wondered if you could comment about kind of how many -- maybe if you could give us a sense for the amount of bids outstanding? Or at what point we should be a little bit more concerned about another possible reduction? Or do you see a lot of stuff in the very near-term pipeline that's likely to convert so that we don't get another downward revision? And then lastly if you could just update us on the NRO patriot recompete and where you guys stand there? Right.
So on RF backlog if you go back 6 years you'll see the numbers as low as 30% and as high as 70%.
So there's a wide range of where we've entered the year with backlog compared to what our sales turn out to actually be.
The average is 51.5% so I don't think 48% is materially different than the average.
Obviously we're counting on some new orders coming in.
And the timing of those orders as I indicated especially in international because they can be very large and lumpy will have an impact on when those turn to revenue.
With regard to the patriot recompete there's been a down select made I think the 2 companies.
We are not one of those companies.
And so we have reflected the lower revenue from that recompete not going our way in the guidance we've provided for INS part of INS that Harris IT Services provides.
So that's in the guidance and it will affect us for about half a year starting in kind of January.
And our next question comes from the line of Michael French with Morgan Joseph.
Howard first I'd like to ask you about the succession planning.
It was a little bit of surprise to see that you're planning to retire.
I think you've done a good job you've established a great culture and you're definitely a pleasure to be around so very sorry to hear that.
But just perhaps you could walk us through how the search is going and what you -- what kind of timing you would expect on an announcement? Well there's certainly nothing specific I can say about timing on an announcement.
What I can say is that the board is diligently engaged in interviewing both external and internal candidates.
I know that they feel a sense of urgency to name a successor not because they're anxious to get me out of here but because we certainly don't want to be in a void for an extended period where leadership is uncertain.
But in terms of the timing that remains to be seen.
But there's a real sense of urgency obviously balanced by the desire to pick the right person to lead the company in our next chapter.
So lots of work is underway and you'll just have to stay tuned.
I can't say anything specific with regard to timing.
Okay.
And then I'd like to follow up on something you mentioned on the last call that at a SPA warrant in San Diego they have an RFI for essentially an off-the-shelf jitters radio.
Has there been any movement on that process? Not that I'm aware of at this point.
Okay and then...
Are you speaking about the GMR alternative? Yes.
Yes I don't believe anything has happened subsequent to that at least not that I'm aware of.
Okay.
And then you mentioned today that on the Cyber side you were going to be taking some steps to accelerate business there.
Can you elaborate on that? Are you talking about being more aggressive on pricing or are there other things that you can do? Yes I'm not sure it's as much accelerate on the revenue side.
Certainly we're doing what we can but we're just seeing that while I think the cloud -- computing cloud hosting market is going to be very very large and lucrative at some point in the future the transition's going much more slowly and we've seen that and talked to a lot of companies.
So I'm not sure we're going to be able to accelerate that although we'll do what we can.
But certainly in response to that we're taking a hard look at the cost side of the equation and our expenses and plans for additional capital expenditures and depreciation and amortization and that sort of thing to see what can be done to potentially trim what right now our best estimate is about a $30 million operating loss whereas previously we had hoped that to be kind of break even for this year.
And our next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Howard on the margin guidance for RF it's up 100 basis points versus where you had guided 3 months ago or last quarter.
And the part of the revenue guidance that came down was obviously some of the higher margin part of the business.
Also if you just look at the fourth quarter you did 30.4% margin in the RF segment overall and the mix to me looks pretty similar to what you're expecting for the coming year.
So I'm just wondering what are the offsets to get the margins up those 300 basis points that you're expecting from the fourth quarter? Is R&amp;D coming down? Are there any other items in there some other kind of mix et cetera? Yes great question Joe and you're exactly right.
We've taken a lot of steps to mitigate the amount of the margin decline from '11 to '12.
In the segment it's only about 100 basis points.
So how have we done that? Well number one Public Safety Professional Communications business return on sales or margins are moving significantly higher.
If you go back 2 years Gary and I talked about guidance in that business and we are now starting to see the top line and the bottom line move.
And so it's becoming as a result less dilutive to the segment.
Secondly our new manufacturing facility and a number of other operational and cost reduction actions are allowing us to actually maintain very very high margins in the RF segment.
Fourth quarter was a little bit of an anomaly.
We used the opportunity to accelerate some of our R&amp;D by using some contract engineering not only inside but outside the company.
And so the previous quarter I think for the segment was 32.5%.
So Q4 was a little bit of an anomaly as sometimes happens in quarters.
But the bottom line is we feel very confident in the 33% to 34% guidance we're providing and it does not involve a major reduction in R&amp;D but rather focuses heavily on actions at the gross margin line in both Tactical as well as significant progress being made in Public Safety.
Well you've indicated that Public Safety is around 10% in the past and I'm wondering if you could give a little more color as to where we're getting there.
Is that getting up into the mid-teens? Well as we've integrated the businesses it's a little difficult to call that out.
But I can tell you that we are very comfortable that we are now on track toward the kind of return on sales numbers that Gary and I talked about.
Ultimately I think on the call we said our goal was about 15% EBIT and closer to maybe 19% EBITDA margins and this absolutely is moving us that direction.
And our next question comes from the line of Larry Harris with CL King.
Inc.</strong> I was wondering if you could talk about the texture of orders or bookings right now in some of the U.S.
government businesses Tactical Communications outside of the 117G and Government Communications and Integrated Network Solutions.
Some companies that have been reporting I guess paperwork problems this past quarter what are you seeing right now in some of your businesses? We haven't seen anything particularly Larry a significant item that I would call out.
I think there continues to be a lot of concern and at times confusion around exactly what money is going to be available for what programs.
And certainly we've seen a lot of talk now in the last 24 hours by various analysts as a result of the debt ceiling deal that was crafted in Congress.
We really haven't seen anything material as a result of the last quarter.
It's been a little slow as you know and our guidance shows modest growth compared to what we've been able to deliver in the past.
So obviously we're hopeful that this is overblown and the opportunity to have higher growth in government systems and in IT services.
We've been doing very well in IT services and with 11% in government systems that's kind of a blowout quarter.
So we really haven't seen a lot of big things.
I think that has a lot to do with our diversity of programs for a company our size with 250 to 300 programs across not just DoD but intelligence civilian agencies lots of $10 million and smaller annual revenue programs.
I think that's cushioning us pretty well.
We won't be totally blind I'm sure to program adjustments and so on.
But at this point we're not seeing anything of the magnitude that you're asking about.
Inc.</strong> Understood.
And you mentioned that there were a couple of IDIQ-type contracts I believe in the Tactical Communications area.
If you win those could those convert to sales this fiscal year? I don't know specifically whether we have any of those contracts in our -- it's certainly in our pipeline.
I don't know how many of them we might have in the actual revenue forecast.
What I can say in terms of little color around those one is the special operations forces we think that's expected to be kind of in hundreds of million of dollars of opportunity.
That's probably an FY '13 program and that's kind of tied to one of the future capability sets in the Army and I think that's correct.
And then the other one for the Navy is maybe tens of millions of dollars.
That one is more FY '12 oriented.
So gives you a little bit of color around them.
But the nice thing about IDIQs it sets a ceiling and gives a lot of flexibility.
So if up-tempo or needs emerge and new technology they want to take advantage of especially special forces they had then have a contract ceiling and a vehicle to procure radios.
So as we continue to put out radios with more and more capabilities we love to see these IDIQ contracts because I think that the balance shifts really toward a commercial company like Harris and to be able to make the maximum benefit out of those kinds of vehicles.
Inc.</strong> Yes hundreds of millions that would be significant.
And our next question comes from the line of Josephine Millward with Benchmark Company.
LLC</strong> Howard in your updated fiscal year '12 guidance are you assuming another CR or can we see further downside if the '12 budget hasn't get done until some time next year? Yes so you're talking about whether we are expecting an additional or a new continuing resolution in the government fiscal year '12 budget? Well I don't think we have or expect anything to be signed in September when it's supposed to.
So I suspect that we are looking for it to be executed maybe January or February that's kind of in the pattern.
But I don't think that we're expecting a full year continuing resolution.
So we're probably balanced somewhere in the middle on that.
LLC</strong> That's fair.
Can you give us an update on the 117G manpack contract vehicles I believe you have in place with the Army moving at SOCOM? How much is left on the ceiling of these contracts? And when do you expect the RFP on jitters alternative for manpack and GMR to come out? Would they -- would you anticipate them some time after the follow-on networking exercise in October? First of all I don't have at my fingertips how much is remaining on those contract vehicles side.
I just don't know those numbers so we'd have to get back to you on that.
I'm not aware at this point that contract vehicles are an issue so -- but I just don't have those numbers.
With regard to the timing on GMR I would really be speculating.
We certainly know that they need a replacement.
We think that the market -- just to remind you the market size for say a 2-channel GMR vehicle replacement we still think we're talking about upwards of 25 000 radios $3 billion in revenue opportunity over a period of years.
So really can't say how many years can't say when they're going to start that.
We really don't have anything to speak of in our fiscal '12 guidance.
So we're expecting -- and I think beyond that.
When the timing of an RFP would occur I really can't say.
But you may be right it's likely to be after that October NIE and we're really not counting on anything in '12.
But certainly for '13 '14 '15 I think we would expect to start seeing some opportunity there.
I think we're going to be in a very strong position to take advantage and serve that 25 000 unit ultimate opportunity.
And our next question comes from the line of Josh Sullivan with Gleacher.
Inc.</strong> In the past you've talked about how Public Safety applications can be leveraged internationally.
Can you talk about any traction there? Yes I think we have a limited amount of ability to leverage and it's really in those markets that are using the P25 standard.
The other standard which I'm forgetting the name of it is TETRA.
Thank you Pam.
The TETRA standard we don't have access to that technology currently.
And most of the international market of $4 billion or so annually is TETRA.
But those markets which are not they tend to be more rural in nature larger geographies tend to use the P25 standard and we are pretty well positioned with those.
We saw nice increases in fiscal '11 with our international Public Safety orders.
It was a nice growth area off of fiscal '10 and we certainly have expectations of another very good growth year in fiscal '12 internationally.
But it's still going to be a relatively small piece of our overall revenue in PSPC.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And just secondly domestically just given the pressure on some municipalities under -- I mean what does the competitive landscape look like here? Are you guys winning contracts on cost or capability? Well it certainly continues to be and will continue to be a competitive market but I think you need to think of the market in 2 pieces.
The part that's really been most impacted by kind of yearly annual budgets is what I would call the kind of repair and replacement what we call the flow business.
And we have certainly seen pressure on that business because they're not adding additional police officers firemen emergency technicians.
If they have 5 radios in reserve and 2 break down they're not buying new radios because they don't have the short-term budget money.
So we've already seen I think significant impacts from that.
On the flip side though money is available for these large modernization programs.
And we have won 4 or 5 large ones over the last several quarters we've announced.
These have all been competitive.
And I think a combination of 3 factors is allowing us to win.
Certainly we have to be competitive on price but we don't need to have the lowest overall price by a significant amount.
We are viewed as having very competitive and often superior technology and support.
And thirdly the Harris brand that's now wrapped around the Public Safety business has created a lot of demand and a lot of traction for competitive bids in this market.
So I think you put those factors together and a strong and even upgraded management team at PSPC and we certainly like the momentum that seems to be building in that market.
Having said that certainly it's competitive and the day-to-day replacement and upgrade business budgets are tight.
And our next question comes from the line of Ted Wheeler with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> I wondered if you could give a little more color on the Cyber situation.
You talked about some cost issues but maybe you could address the revenue side? I mean does the slow start a pushout? Or are some of the people or potential contracts that you would hope to engage in moving elsewhere? I wonder if you could just kind of go through what might be a new outlook for getting the revenues to where you want them to be? Yes I think overall Ted I would kind of characterize this as kind of a 1-year slip in our expectations.
Back in March we talked about the investments that we've made in capital for the facility the upgrade for all of our initial tranche at customer-facing equipment kind of in the $175 million to $200 million range.
And that would ultimately be able to drive revenue of about $80 million at nice profitability with maybe $50 million of revenue or so being at the break-even point given the expenses that we have and we have people operating the business and the depreciation and amortization on the investments.
So that's kind of where we were sitting.
We thought that in FY '12 we would have enough momentum to get to that level and kind of be plus or minus at break even.
My assessment now is that's going to be probably pushed out a year.
I don't believe that we have lost a significant amount of business.
I think we were just in the category of start-up.
We started up the business and opened the center a little later than we have planned and just didn't allow enough time in our planning for what was going to be channel development starting to work with our partners on developing prospects.
And then the time to close once we had a prospect is turning out to be much longer.
Because people are just going to be a little more cautious especially about taking their business to the cloud in an outside cloud as opposed to -- they may take it to a cloud faster in their own operations than outsource it to someone else.
And again we were focused -- we are focused on really mission-critical very high-end applications.
And so in hindsight we were just too optimistic in how quickly this was going to turn.
We're still very convinced this is going to be a very large market one that suits Harris well and one that we ought to be able to generate $100 million of very profitable revenue from.
But we are not starting out where we had hoped.
We lost as we already had indicated an excess of $20 million in fiscal '11.
And now we're estimating this $30 million for fiscal '12.
So I think it's -- unfortunately like sometimes new market entries you don't know what you don't know.
You make assumptions.
You find out sometimes you're right.
In this case we weren't.
And so we've had to bake that into our updated guidance for next year.
Inc.</strong> I guess the number of conversations and evaluations also change from what you thought or -- and therefore just sort of timing a process? Or are you having difficulty getting -- sort of people getting started to kick the tires? I think the conversation has now have begun and they really have been about 6 months later than we'd really expected in terms of really ramping up.
It was hard to have a lot of conversations before we have the facility open.
The customers could come in or go in our portal and see really what it is with more specificity around what we're offering.
I think coming forward in future quarterly calls we'll provide more color around the pipeline and how it's going.
But right now we wanted to communicate where we think we are.
Inc.</strong> Big swing for fiscal '13 I guess? Well that's the way I view the opportunity certainly.
If we -- now have in the numbers we've given you $30 million loss and can get to break even in '13 that's $0.15 $0.17 a share improvement in '13.
But I'm sure there are some investors from Missouri at this point that we're going to have to convince that that's more real than we thought it was 6 months ago.
Let me add on Josephine's question that the notes indicate that we do expect to see the RFP before the end of the calendar year.
I don't know if that'll happen or not but that's a current expectation.
And then it'll take some months to award so it could easily be to the end of the fiscal year before the RFP is awarded and any contract comes out of that.
So that's what our current thinking is but I think it's probably a fair subject to change.
We do have one final question and that's a follow-up from the line of Pete Skibitski with SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> Yes two quick ones.
Howard just wondered if there's any opportunity to protest the NRO patriot loss? We do not plan to protest that loss.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then I just wondered on the Healthcare opportunity set there was used to be a lot of talk about a lot of money from the stimulus bill available for healthcare opportunities.
I'm wondering what the update is on that front.
I think the opportunity pipeline is very very large and we bought a commercial business it's not that large.
And so a couple of deals slipping out in the quarter can have an impact on profitability.
It's a software and services business with high gross margins.
So I don't want you to take away from our comments that we lost money due to Carefx acquisition in Q4 as that that's going to be an ongoing loss as I've indicated Cyber will be.
We expect a turnaround and grow in that commercial healthcare business and be profitable in fiscal '12.
And as you heard from my prepared remarks we are making a huge amount of progress with the Department of Veterans Affairs and our Healthcare business there is going to grow significantly.
So I think fiscal '12 is going to be a very good year for the Healthcare Solutions business at Harris both government and commercial.
I think we're going to build momentum and see a lot of growth in '13 and '14.
But the reality was that we lost money primarily on the commercial acquisition in Q4 and we need to build that results base to show you as we go forward in '12.
But we do not expect to lose money in the Healthcare in fiscal '12.
Thank you everyone for joining us today.
Ladies and gentlemen we thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation and you may now disconnect.
Have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2012 Harris Corp.
Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I'd like to introduce Ms.
Pamela Padgett Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our call.
We're very sorry about the delay.
It seems like our conference call company had a little bit of a technical difficulty.
So on the call with me today is Howard Lance Chairman President and CEO; and Gary McArthur Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started a few words about forward-looking statements.
In the course of this teleconference management may make forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements involve assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those statements.
For more information and the discussion of such assumptions risks and uncertainties please see the press release and filings made by Harris with the SEC.
In addition in our press release and on this teleconference and the related presentation we will discuss certain financial measures and information that are non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to the comparable GAAP measures is included in tables in our press release and on the Investor Relations section of our website which is www.harris.com.
A replay of this call will also be available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
And with that Howard I'll turn it over to you.
Thank you Pam.
I want to welcome all of you to our First Quarter Fiscal 2012 Earnings Call.
Before I turn to the quarter's results earlier this month the Harris Board of Directors announced the appointment of William M.
Brown as President and CEO to become effective on November 1.
Bill joins Harris from United Technologies Corporation where he most recently served as Senior Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Development.
Previously he served for 5 years as President of UTC's Fire &amp; Security business which has revenues of $6.5 billion and 45 000 employees.
Bill has a proven track record of driving growth building and motivating teams and delivering financial results.
I'm confident that his P&amp;L management experience his operating and commercial skills and strategic acumen will allow him to be very successful as he comes forward to lead Harris.
Moving now to first quarter results in Slides 3 and 4 in our presentation.
We began fiscal 2012 with a number of important new wins and strong orders so we're off to a good start.
Orders increased 23% compared to the prior year.
They exceeded revenue and that drove a book-to-bill for the total company of greater than 1 during the first quarter.
Consolidated revenue was $1.46 billion.
That increased 4% over the prior year.
If we exclude the impact of acquisitions then revenue declined about 2%.
Expedited tactical radio shipments in the prior year of $235 million created a difficult year-over-year comparison to both revenue and income.
And you'll remember these were for the expedited MRAP vehicle program.
This was expected the year-over-year change and included in our prior guidance.
Non-GAAP earnings per share was $1.06 in the first quarter.
Also during the first quarter we repurchased $400 million in outstanding shares reducing the share count by 8.6% and achieving our targeted share reduction that we had previously discussed of 8% to 9% for the fiscal year.
Moving now to the segment results first on Slide 5.
First quarter revenue for RF Communications was $497 million comprised $373 million from Tactical Communications and $124 million from Public Safety and Professional Communications.
Again the year-over-year revenue decline in RF Communications was as a result of the $235 million of expedited tactical radio shipments in the prior year quarter.
The worst of these year-over-year quarterly comparisons is now behind us and our baseline for future growth is essentially reset.
All that remains of the $1 billion in expedited MRAP shipments that occurred over 5 quarters is the last $80 million that shipped in the second quarter of fiscal 2011.
We believe the underlying performance in the quarter was strong with segment revenue of $497 million.
Excluding deliveries with the MRAP program shipments U.S.
DoD revenue and Tactical Communications increased significantly year-over-year driven by continuing Falcon III adoption supporting the DoD vision to deploy wideband networking to replace outdated voice-centric and line-of-sight tactical communications.
International revenue growth was also strong in the quarter increasing significantly over the prior year driven by major deliveries to Australia Kenya and other countries in North Africa and Central Asia.
Revenue from Public Safety and Professional Communications was $124 million in the first quarter and that was a 3% increase over the prior year.
Significant new wins including the province of Alberta in Canada Oregon's Department of Transportation Floyd County Georgia and Linn County Iowa which were all announced in the back half of fiscal 2011 are contributing to the seals ramp up and allowing us to maintain a healthy backlog in this business.
For the segment operating income in the first quarter was lower as expected at $154 million compared with $229 million in the prior year.
Operating margin was 31% in the quarter and is expected to improve over fiscal year '12 as a result of more favorable product mix continuing cost containment activities and lower manufacturing costs.
Lean manufacturing improvements implemented as part of our facilities consolidation in Rochester New York are expected to drive productivity improvements for the year in excess of 5% and production cycle time reductions are expected at 10% to 20% across each of our product lines.
News on the orders front was very positive.
Segment orders were $514 million in the quarter with Tactical Communications orders of $398 million and Public Safety and Professional Communications orders of $116 billion (sic) [million].
That means that book-to-bill for the segment and for Tactical Communications were both greater than 1.
And we're exiting first quarter with $800 million tactical radio backlog and we believe that's very encouraging.
New orders were especially strong in the U.S.
market.
Perhaps our most meaningful win in the quarter was a $66 million order from the U.S.
Army as part of their Brigade Combat Modernization program allowing them to outfit the first 8 brigade combat teams with their initial wideband networking capability.
This is also known throughout the Army as Capability Set 13.
This is not the full extent to which wideband will ultimately be implemented for each of the brigade combat teams but it marks the beginning of the Army's modernization efforts.
We consider the Falcon III 117G order a milestone event in our effort to become the preferred wideband tactical communications provider to the U.S.
Army.
A leadership position we've already achieved with the U.S.
Marine Corps Air Force and Special Operations Command all of whom are already standardizing in the Falcon III family oftactical radios.
Our success at this summer's Army NIE event and NIE is short in Network Integration Evaluation led in a large part to the award that we received.
The NIE evaluations are a critical element on how the Army's network acquisition strategy is evolving.
These are expected to be semi-annual evaluations.
They're designed to assess and qualify the Army's tactical networking capabilities and to promote enhanced competition among programs of record and viable commercial solutions.
Our radios clearly demonstrated the advanced capabilities of wideband networking in a challenging and real world formal evaluation environment receiving high marks in both their reliability and their ease-of-use.
At the same time the NIE pointed out significant deficiencies and challenges yet to be overcome by our competitors as they struggle to deliver the basic program-of-record  radios.
The successful porting of the JTRS soldier radio waveform into the Falcon III feedback from actual users side-by-side comparisons and the fact that our Falcon III radios provide capabilities beyond what the program-of-record had promised are all creating strong advocacy for our products.
Also leading to this significant win with the Army has been our excellent performance in real battlefield situations in Afghanistan where we've already outfitted 9 brigade combat teams with Falcon III radios in support of the Army's previous capability sets.
Our success in the field along with our performance at the NIE are helping  create a new model for Army radio acquisition.
The latest $66 million order validates our leading position and our ability to win.
TheDoD is clearly moving away from programs of record models and embracing Falcon III and the Enterprise Business Model as the new way forward in acquisition.
Now a recurring question has been whether or not the DoD will continue to have an appetite to invest in tactical communications modernization during the tough government budget environment going forward.
Without a war and without OCO funding we believe the answer is yes and that their commitment to modernization remains strong.
Just 2 weeks ago in an interview with Defense News recently appointed U.S.
Army Chief of Staff Ray Odierno commented on modernization strategy in the face of budget cuts and priorities.
He said and I quote "Networks is one of the most important things we do.
Our ability to network and provide information from the highest level down to our soldiers is one of the things we're really working on.
And the reason we are excited about this is we now have companies that have developed their own capabilities and are coming down to Fort Bliss to work these new technologies.
We think there's a real potential here to lower the cost and to move us forward very quickly.
We don't want to walk away from that.
We have to continue to invest in that." Clearly our customers are pleased with our progress.
During the first quarter we continued to achieve several significant product milestones creating new capabilities and features in the Falcon III family and we'll demonstrate these at the fall of 2011 NIE exercises that are scheduled.
We received NSA certification for the SRW waveform in our Falcon III 117G wideband networking radio.
Shipment of this product have already begun making Harris the first to market with an NSA certified radio incorporating the JTRS soldier radio waveform.
We also received NSA certification for and began shipping the Falcon III AN/PRC 152A handheld radio also with wideband networking capability using the Harris ANW2 waveform.
152A is the only Type-1-certified wideband handheld radio on the market.
Other major U.S.
orders for Falcon III wideband networking radios included $29 million for the U.S.
Air Force; $20 million to equip MRAP vehicles for the U.S.
Army and the U.S.
Marine Corps; and orders of $16 million and $15 million respectively from the DoD.
We closed the quarter with a healthy opportunity pipeline in the U.S.
market of $1.1 billion.
Large opportunities continue to exist for Falcon III radios as the Army Marine Corps and Air Force continue to upgrade their tactical networks.
Also the U.S.
pipeline includes opportunities which would be procured through IDIQ contracts that we expect to be awarded from the Navy and the Special Operations Command.
International tactical communications orders in the quarter demonstrate that demand for wideband networking capabilities is also increasing and spreading around the globe.
Significant wins in the quarter included 2 orders totaling $52 million from a country in Southeast Asia for integrated command control and communications systems is in Falcon III and Falcon II tactical radios; a $38 million IDIQ win with an $8 million initial delivery order to supply military communications and field support services to international partners in the Caribbean and South America; and orders from Poland Republic of Georgia and Kuwait.
Visibility in the international market has also improved.
This is a key point.
Last quarter we talked about the political instability in North Africa the Middle East and Central Asia and how that has impacted international orders.
We're feeling much more optimistic about these areas as the political environment has improved and the opportunities have firmed up.
The international opportunity pipeline is $2.4 billion and is highlighted by significant opportunities with the Iraq Ministry of Interior and Ministry of Defense the Australian Ministry of Defense the United Arab Emirates and a number of other nations in Africa Central Asia and Southeast Asia.
Orders in Public Safety and Professional Communications were $116 million in the quarter only slightly below revenue of $124 million and we think still at very solid orders quarter in what continues to be weak state and local spending environment.
Backlog continues to be large and our pipeline of opportunities remains robust at $3 billion.
PSPC orders in the quarter included $16 million from one of the nation's largest electric utilities to provide advanced OpenSky data and voice communication systems; $7 million for a p25 LMR communication system and related radios for Beard County Texas; and $4 million from Mobile County Alabama for a P25 system.
Moving on next to Slide 6.
Integrated Network Solutions segment revenue in the first quarter increased 26% to $554 million primarily as a result of the contribution from acquisitions.
Organic revenue growth was 5% in the quarter and revenue increased in each of the business areas included in INS.
Segment non-GAAP operating income was $19 million compared with $29 million in the prior year quarter.
The decrease resulted from a combined loss of $16 million in the new cyber and commercial healthcare initiatives partially offset by year-over-year operating income increases at Harris CapRock Communications and Broadcast Communications.
Across this segment we're winning prime positions on a number of U.S.
government IDIQ contracts giving us better access to multiple agencies and the ability to sell a broader solutions offering.
In the Harris IT Services we received a 5-year $25 million contract from the Air Force Space Command and Missile Systems Center under the Alliant IDIQ contract to sustain the ground system for the Defense Meteorological Satellites Program.
Also at IT Services following the close of the quarter we acquired an Encore II IDIQ contract from another company securing a prime position to serve DISA the Defense Information Systems Agency.
Encore II is a broad procurement contract vehicle enabling companies to provide network-centric IT solutions for command and control intelligence and mission support.
Also following the close of the quarter IT services was awarded a prime position on the connections to GSA contract.
This is similar to the FTI program for the FAA.
A contract vehicle is used to procure broad telecommunications and network solutions.
At CapRock Communications we were very encouraged by the leading indicators for increased demand in the energy market that we saw during the quarter.
We experienced an increase in the request for proposals from customers anticipating more rigs being put into service.
And on existing contracts there was definitely an uptick in short-term add-on communication services.
During the quarter Harris was also awarded a 5-year $9 million contract from Farstad Shipping  to provide managed satellite communications to their fleet of 53 offshore drilling ships and exploration vessels and these operate in the North Sea the Indian Ocean the Pacific and off the coast of Brazil and Australia.
In the government market we received several awards totaling $52 million under the DSTS-G and FCSA IDIQ contracts.
Where  we'll provide managed satellite communications for DoD and national intelligence customers.
Our integration efforts have resulted at Harris CapRock in consolidating 5 commercial network operation centers down to 2: 1 in Aberdeen Scotland 1 in Houston Texas.
We're also reducing costs by consolidating our teleport footprint and also bundling our satellite bandwidth purchases all aimed at driving lower costs.
All 3 of our vertical markets: energy maritime and government have significant overlap in their harsh and remote geographic coverage requirements.
As a result we've been able to establish new satellite capacity requirements under long-term contracts and repurpose this capacity as customers change their demand over time.
In Broadcast Communications we continue to see revenue growth in international regions: the South America Middle East and Asia.
Orders during the quarter included $3 million from TV Azteca for the first live 3D transmissions throughout Mexico.
Harris also received a $3 million order from Svyaz  Engineering our Russian manufacturing partner where we'll begin local production of digital television transmitters.
Russia is only in the initial stages of their transition from analog to digital.
This will ultimately include the replacement of 22 000 transmitters across the country.
This will take place over the next several years and we believe as Harris is well positioned to participate significantly in this revenue opportunity.
During the quarter our Broadcast Communications team participated in IBC 2011 in Amsterdam the industry's largest tradeshow.
There were more than 50 000 attendees making it the biggest show ever and this is another encouraging sign for international market growth opportunities in Broadcast.
A final comment on Broadcast.
We recently learned that one of our contract manufacturers located in Thailand has been impacted by the recent flooding.
It's really too soon for us to understand the extent of the impact and what impact it might have on the second quarter results in broadcast.
We're working feverishly to mitigate any impact.
All of our finished goods have been moved out of Thailand and our suppliers in the process of moving production and starting it at an alternate location.
Moving on Harris Healthcare Solutions achieved a number of new government wins in the quarter.
The National Cancer Institute awarded Harris a 5-year $37 million contract under their CIO-SP2 IDIQ contract vehicle for comprehensive data management.
Under this contract Harris will continue to provide the expertise that has enabled the National Cancer Institute to enhance their research databases and systems used for clinical trials.
Harris was also awarded a 5-year $55 million contract under the recently won $199 million blanket purchase agreement from the Department of Veterans Affairs for a healthcare IT program called EVEAH Enhance the Veterans Experience and Access to HealthCare.
In this program we will integrate and deploy a Surgical Quality and Workflow Manager tool and we'll integrate a COTS solution to reduce surgery wait times and cancellations increase patient throughput and improve the overall surgical experience for veterans and their families.
The solution represents the first time EVEAH has used the COTS solution for an enterprise-wide clinical information system.
It will operate in all 130 of EVEAH hospitals who perform surgery and support over 400 000 cases per year.
Four major academic medical centers went live this quarter with our Physician Insight Plus program which is part of the Carefx performance management dashboard suite that's been developed in collaboration with the Cleveland Clinic.
Dashboards are critical to the interoperability of healthcare IT systems.
It connects dual-pipe [ph] databases organize the information and apply analytics that help improve clinical and operational performance.
Also during the quarter Healthcare Solutions was awarded a $10 million contract from Kaiser-Permanente to develop and support a health information exchange providing interoperability between their legacy systems.
As the largest commercial provider of veteran healthcare.
Kaiser Permanente a $43 billion health enterprise with over 35 medical centers and 400 medical offices serving 9 million healthcare plan members.
This contract has the potential to reach $20 million and was a major win for this business in the quarter.
Bottom line is we're continuing to integrate our recent acquisitions.
We're winning prime positions on IDIQ contracts maturing new initiative with major partners in our INS segment in order to drive growth and improve profitability going forward.
Let me now move on to Slide 7.
Revenue in the Government Communications Systems segment was $444 million in the first quarter 5% higher than the prior year.
Underlying growth when we exclude the FDCA revenue for the Census Bureau -- that program finished in the prior year our underlying growth was up 9%.
We think this is outstanding performance given the tough U.S.
Government spending environment.
Especially positive in the quarter was a strong revenue growth in our classified programs business.
Beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 wins in classified programs area began increasing and we continue to experience this pickup in the first quarter where we won 5 large contracts totaling $125 million.
Revenue growth in the quarter was also driven by the ramp up of a couple of large existing programs including the GOES-R program for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the MET program for the U.S.
Army which provides satellite ground terminals that make up their worldwide backbone for high-priority military communications.
In the quarter Harris was awarded the next 5-year $51 million delivery order for MET to provide additional fixed and transportable X and Ka-band terminals equipment racks spares and operator training.
This brings our total orders under the MET program to date to more than $200 million of the potential $600 million contract award value.
Revenue growth in the quarter also came from higher shipments of Highband Networking Radios commercial satellite reflectors wireless products and geospatial products.
Partially offsetting this growth as I mentioned was a decline in revenue from the completion of the Cisco [ph] program for the 2010 U.S.
Census and the completion to build-out [ph] of the FTI microwave network the FAA.
Staying with FAA Harris received a new program award from them in the quarter a 10-year contract with a potential value of $85 million with the Alaska  Satellite Telecommunications Infrastructure program.
Under this new program Harris will replace and upgrade the existing satellite communications network that links the Alaska Air Route Traffic Control Center in Anchorage with 64 other FAA facilities throughout the region.
This demonstrates our continued strong relationship with the FAA and we believe will benefit Harris as the large next-gen programs begin to be awarded over the next several years.
Segment operating income and government communications in the first quarter was $63 million and operating margin was very strong at 14.2%.
Strong execution across the segment along with a favorable mix from our product-focused areas continue to drive our above-industry average margins.
With that let me now ask Harris' CFO Gary McArthur to comment on our financial results in the quarter.
Thank you Howard.
As highlighted on Slide 4 and already mentioned by Howard we repurchased $400 million in shares reducing shares outstanding by $10.6 million or 8.6%.
As of quarter end we have $600 million remaining authorization under our share repurchase program.
Turning to Slides 8 and 9.
We ended the quarter with cash on hand of $305 million.
Cash flow generated from operating activities was $79 million in the quarter as compared to $295 million in the prior year.
All 3 segments generated positive operating cash flow.
Operating cash flow was weaker mainly as a result of lower operating income and collections primarily at RF Communications wherein in the prior year expedited shipments and collections on tactical radios for MRAP vehicles benefited income and cash flow and in the first quarter of this year the transition to the new factory delayed shipments and ultimately collections.
Our expectations for the corporation are that cash flow from operations will increase steadily over the next 3 quarters as operating income increases and days sales outstanding declined from 56 days as of the end of the first quarter to the more typical low 50s.
Though we are maintaining our guidance for operating cash flow at $825 million to $875 million.
As a result of our slower-than-expected start to the year we will continue to monitor this closely.
Depreciation and amortization was $63 million as compared to $47 million in the prior year.
Our expectations for depreciation and amortization for fiscal year 2012 are unchanged at $280 million to $290 million.
Capital expenditures were $82 million as compared to $41 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2011.
Our current guidance for fiscal year 2012 CapEx is unchanged to between $265 million and $285 million.
Our effective non-GAAP tax rate in the first quarter was 31%.
Our outlook for the full year tax rate remains at 33% again noting however that the tax rate for any given quarter could vary up or down as a result of discrete tax events.
And finally during the quarter we renewed our 364-day revolving credit facility at a level of $250 million which combined with our primary revolver provides us with $1 billion of short-term debt capacity.
With that I'll turn it back to Howard.
Thanks Gary.
On Slide 10 we're maintaining our previous financial guidance for fiscal 2012 both in total and for each segment.
Consolidated revenue for fiscal 2012 is expected to be 4% to 6% higher than the prior year with revenue coming in between $6.15 billion and $6.3 billion.
Non-GAAP income excluding acquisition-related cost is expected to be in the range from $5.10 to $5.30 per diluted share a year-over-year increase of 4% to 8%.
Adjusted EBITDA for the year is expected to be in the range of $1.28 billion to $1.32 billion a year-over-year increase of 4% to 8%.
For the RF Communications segment fiscal 2012 revenue is expected to be 3% to 6% lower than fiscal 2011.
This includes a 10% decline in Tactical Communications revenue along with double-digit growth in Public Safety and Professional Communications business area.
Segment operating margin is still expected to be 33% to 34%.
For the Integrated Network Solutions segment we expect revenue in the range 16% to 18% higher than fiscal 2011 with organic growth in the range of 7% to 9%.
Non-GAAP segment operating margin is expected to be between 5.5% and 6.5%.
And finally for the Government Communication Systems segment we expect revenue for fiscal 2012 to be 2% to 4% higher than fiscal 2011 and segment operating margins of about 13.5%.
Let me close my final earnings call as Harris President and CEO by saying it's been a real privilege for me to serve this great company and our shareholders.
I continue to believe in the future growth prospects for Harris.
The company is well positioned to outperform in our core U.S.
government and defense businesses while benefiting from a growing number of growth platforms including international tactical communications public safety broadcast satellite communication services healthcare information systems and cyber-integrated solutions.
I believe Bill Brown will do a great job taking over from me in the leadership role and I want to wish him and the entire Harris team my very best.
At this time I'll ask the operator to open the line and we'll be pleased to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> My first question is I'm wondering what you think the post-GMR Army wideband radio procurement structure will look like? Do we continue to see these steady smaller contract awards? Or at some point do we get some larger onetime award that covers a lot of what the Army wants to do over a longer period of time? Any insights you have into how this is likely to play out.
Well I wish I could be specific but we really don't know.
I'm expecting both.
In the short run I think we will continue to see smaller orders released.
But I do think at some point to fully fill out capability set 13 across all the brigade combat teams.
42 I think is the total number we talked about previously.
And at a level of penetration of wideband networking which would be more than this initial tranche that they'll probably create some sort of a large IDIQ contract vehicle to accomplish that.
But certainly I don't have any specifics on the timing of that any more than we did last quarter.
We're very pleased obviously with this first award.
Our performance in the NIE our performance in the field the advancements we continue to make in the technology that are further distancing our performance in the radios from the programs of record ultimately have made this an easy decision I think for the Army and one obviously we're pleased with.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
One other question related to that.
We've seen the Army discuss your ANW2 waveform technology as sort of critical to the process.
But it looks like they've been saying that they're going to try to bring that in to their own repository as they put it and make it available to others who are also competing.
Can you talk about whether or not that's true? And if it is if you would -- if you're selling the technology and would -- and gain a royalty on other contractor wins or just what might happen there? It's my understanding that your statement about what they want is correct.
We have definitely expressed a willingness to provide the ANW2 waveform to the library but we have not negotiated the terms for providing that waveform at the current time.
We're certainly not going to give it away.
We're going to make it available as part of returning appropriate value for the investments that we've made.
I don't know what form that will take whether it would be a royalty or onetime payment or some of each.
At this point those negotiations are ongoing and there's nothing to report of a final nature.
And our next question comes from Mark Jordan with Noble Financial.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The buyback you stated that you completed what I assume is basically baked into your -- into the estimates and guidance for the year.
You have $600 million left.
Does that mean that any incremental purchases from here would be additive to expected profitability? And secondly should we be looking at approximately 115 million shares as your share base for Q2? On your second question I'll have to ask Pam to tell me if 115 million is a reasonable number for the share count.
I don't recall.
Offhand she'll look that up.
As it relates to our strategy we committed to repurchase 8% to 9% of the shares.
We said when we announced the share buyback program that we thought that would be about $500 million.
Given the lower level of share price we were able to get that accomplished with $400 million which means we have additional money that we could spend to buy back shares and it would be incremental to our EPS guidance.
The question becomes whether or not we do that.
That decision has not been made.
As Gary said our cash flow in the first quarter was lower than expected.
We're going to monitor this and make that decision at some future date going forward.
We're also going to continue to manage our debt-to-total-capital ratio from a ratings standpoint.
You'll recall the ratings agencies reaffirmed our debt ratings when we announced the share buyback and our plans.
And at this point we don't have any plans to do anything that would change that.
So that's kind of the color around what we have done.
We're certainly continuing to look at it.
Pam? We stand at 113 million.
We always have a little bit of dilution but I'm sure we'll probably offset that with the purchases.
And then the rest of it will go to earnings.
Does that answer your question Mark? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes it did.
And our next question comes from Carter Copeland with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Let me just reiterate Howard our congratulations.
It's certainly -- this company has seen a lot of earnings growth over the years under your watch and we just want to wish you the best in your future endeavors.
Hopefully you could see an equal of rounds of golf played as EPS.
That probably would be a success.
A lot of golf.
Well I'll work on that.
Obviously as a shareholder I'm also very interested in the company's success going forward.
And I'm very sincere when I say I think the Board made an excellent choice in Bill Brown and that there will be a very smooth transition here.
Research Division</strong> Wonderful.
Just a couple of quick ones.
First sort of a bigger picture just question on INS.
Obviously there's a lot of moving pieces here whether it's in commercial healthcare or whether it's in cyber where you're losing money and hopefully hope to turn that around here relatively soon.
And there's obviously some restructuring on the cost front.
It really seems like 2012 is a real rebuilding year.
Is this -- is it your view that you'll get through most of those activities and we can see the money-losing businesses moving to profitability in '13 and the restructuring largely being behind you in '13? Or is this going to be a process that drags on further than that based on what you're seeing today? I would say yes that's our current view.
Whether that remains the case going forward I don't know.
But right now we expect to see improvement as the year goes on.
And we are not expecting to take that negative 60 to a positive number next quarter but we are expecting progress in the commercial healthcare business we bought as well as the cyber business that we have started from scratch.
So I think that's a reasonable expectation that the drag from those gets eliminated in '12 and that they are breakeven or above in '13.
The other thing just to remind you of is there's a significant amount of amortization intangibles and depreciation of the assets invested in cyber that are really dragging down and creating a much bigger gap between operating income growth and EBITDA growth year-over-year.
On a cash basis these businesses are doing much better than on a fully amortized and depreciated basis.
Having said that we understand that that's the way we're reporting numbers.
That's what you should focus on.
I think you got it about right by '13 these 2 contribute.
We continue to see improvement from the Harris CapRock acquisition and their growth and in broadcast and continue to feel very positive about the INS segment as a major driver of revenue growth and margin expansion in '13 and '14 to help us get up to the higher levels of EPS that we're striving for.
And our next question comes from Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> On the RF business I was wondering if you could break out domestic versus international bookings for the quarter and for the year and what your book-to-bill expectations are for the year.
And then just a quick one for Gary.
Where are the receivables? Or where did they build in Q1 which part of the business which products et cetera? Well as it relates to the orders for the year we still expect that international orders will be slightly greater than U.S.
orders and that international revenue will be slightly higher than U.S.
revenue.
I'm not going to comment on any specific book-to-bill forecast.
We're off to a very good start.
We're over 1:1.
And obviously our goal is to keep that going.
Gary do you want to comment on receivables question? Yes Joe the receivables increased primarily at RF.
Their days sales outstanding increased by about 7 days.
That was really as a result of the impact of the factory coming online in July with most of the build and shipments taking place in August and September and then not having time to collect that in the quarter.
So we don't see this as a long-term issue.
We see this as a timing issue and we should get back to more normal days sales outstanding at RF and in the company going forward.
We'll collect those dollars Joe in the second quarter instead of the first quarter.
That's essentially the point.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I mean they were late billings as opposed to international customers that aren't paying? Yes.
Yes.
Correct.
Yes absolutely.
Normally you'd have the full 3 months to be building and we really didn't build anything ship anything in July because that's the month that we moved everything and started the factory up.
We were up and running by the time we had our call.
I think it was August 1 August 2.
But we really didn't ship anything in July.
So we shipped it all in August and a lot of it in September and those bills weren't due yet.
So this is not a question of quality of receivables at all.
Our next question comes from Michael Lewis with Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> If I could just circle back to the cyber operation qualitatively what type of -- are we seeing more clients starting to participate in the operation? And are you getting more traction from the government customer? I think the answer is yes.
Across both government and commercial customers we're getting a lot of traction.
But as we've discussed before the traction is around pilots and the kind of demonstration programs rather than the scale at which we had hoped we'd be able to get people to convert to cloud computing and hosting services.
But we are seeing that the pilot activity continue to pick up and it's across both government and commercial clients.
And our next question comes from Pete Skibitski with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I was just wondering if we can get more clarity on the 8 BCT manpack order the $66 million order.
Is it your understanding that that basically fills out completely the 8 BCTs for now and then we'll have to sort of wait for that future competition before we see further BCT-related orders or penetration there? I view it as initial order against the 8 BCTs.
It certainly does not fill them out at a level of penetration of wideband networking for either manpack vehicular or handheld that they ultimately will want.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you expect to see more orders before the kind of the follow-on formal competition? I don't know that we can be specific on the timing but I expect more orders absolutely.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the recent notice on the $20 million order for the 117Gs for MRAPs.
It seemed like you guys kind of called attention to that as well in terms of -- I'm not sure if most of the MRAPs had Falcon IIs and now we're beginning maybe a Falcon III migration into the MRAPs.
But do you guys see it that way as sort of a tech refresh opportunity for you? Yes the answer is most of the MRAP vehicles that were deployed out of that $1 billion in orders were using Falcon II technology because the contract vehicles were not in place to allow them to use Falcon IIIs.
It sounds counterintuitive.
Why wouldn't you put the new radios in? Because you're going to have to replace them.
But we will have a significant opportunity to upgrade all those vehicles as they need wideband capability.
And our next question comes from Chris Quilty with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Circling back on the JTRS opportunity.
I think one of the other requirements for whatever is going to replace the GMR is that it'd be a 2-channel radio.
And at this time Falcon III platform is a 1-channel radio though I know you've talked about an appliqué that would take it to 2-channel.
Can you talk to us about what your thoughts on whether they actually want or will need a  2-channel radio and how long it would take you to position your product for that opportunity? Best of my knowledge they still want a 2-channel radio.
We are clearly working on turning the Falcon III 117G into a 2-channel version to accomplish that.
I don't think you should view it as an appliqué but rather a full radio system that would have 2 channels.
So that's the best of my understanding.
But I think what's important to keep in mind is that this is a fluid situation in terms of requirements.
The good news Chris is that we have been able to shape the requirements and actually enhance them because we have features in our radio beyond the program of record.
So I don't think that requirement is necessarily cast in stone at this point.
But my latest understanding is it still is a 2-channel request.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then sort of a follow-on to that.
You have integrated wideband networking waveform into the 152 I believe? We have integrated our ANW2 and we as we said last time we're working on also integrating SRW in.
And we expect to have that in in time for this fall in the fall NIE evaluation.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So SRW I thought you had that certified on at least 1 platform? Yes SRW has been certified by the NSA on the 117G.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so the question is to get the WNW certified is that something that you would anticipate a long lead time? Or can that be done on relatively short order? [indiscernible].
Yes I think the real key to Pam's point is the -- WNW is not ready for primetime and that was clear in the summer NIE evaluations.
So -- how long does it take once it is in the library and ready? I don't know.
I wouldn't be too precise.
A lot of it has to do with NSA testing and requirements.
I'm going to throw out it's a year probably process but there's not much we can do until it's really finished.
And that to the earlier question that's why they're very interested in the ANW2 waveform which performed I think up to 30-node network at -- in Fort Bliss and in the testing which they were very very pleased at.
That's many more nodes than the SRW can do and much wider larger bandwidth wider pipes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So the ANW2 is battlefield proven but does it need to get NSA-certified in order to get into the repository? Well it's already NSA-certified in now both of our products the 117G manpack vehicular as well as the 152A.
So it has to get in to the repository when we choose to give government purpose rights to it.
So it's really up to us and the government to negotiate something.
We're not opposed to doing it but we've invested a lot of money from our shareholders to get here.
And we certainly expect to return on that investment.
And our next question comes from Larry Harris with CL King.
Inc.</strong> Question about the Public Safety business.
The other day you announced alliance with AT&amp;T on the LTE front.
And of course Motorola Solutions is working with Verizon.
And are you still working with Nokia Siemens in terms of their base stations? And what do you think is the timing for the deployment of LTE within the public safety arena? Yes we're still working with Nokia Siemens.
I think this process is going to be what I'll describe as long term and not necessarily linear.
I think it's going to be lumpy.
A lot of it has to do with funding.
Everybody wants to have the ability to pass data over an LTE network that is robust and private and secure.
It's a lot more efficient than -- and lower cost than what they do today where they're basically using cards in laptops over these public networks commercial networks.
The issue is all about funding.
The FCC and Congress are trying to move forward on this national broadband plan.
$5 billion continues to be talked about.
But it's just not something that is apparent is going to be available in the budget for a couple of years.
So I think up until this time you're going to see trial systems out and essentially proving out the technology.
I'm very pleased with our progress.
I think LTE as a technology is going to be ultimately pervasive in both the public safety as well as in the DoD market.
And ultimately our advantage I think in being in both of these both tactical radios as well as public safety radios is we're going to be able to develop integrated networks between tactical and LTE and public safety and LTE so that from our customers perspective the network traffic and how it's all being managed is just going to all happen behind the curtain.
They're not going to care but it's going to seamlessly be able to move traffic over those networks but still give them the secure private control of the networks that they need.
So I'm still very bullish on the technology but it's going to be a long long road before it's adopted in any scale in our view.
Next question comes from Michael French with Morgan Joseph.
Research Division</strong> On the subject here of the transition Bill Brown has a lot of M&amp;A experience.
So it seems it's safe to assume that there won't be any change to the company's acquisitive nature.
I'll go ahead and ask the question since you didn't mention M&amp;A in the opening remarks.
How important a consideration was that in selecting him for this role? And should we expect any changes with your outlook towards acquisitions in the near or longer term? I think Michael that M&amp;A was only one of a number of preferences in the requirements for the new CEO.
It certainly was not at the top of the list but it's a wonderful skill and experience that Bill has in not just doing acquisitions but in integrating them.
And I think that his focus in fiscal '12 as we've said previously will be on integrating the acquisitions that we have getting them fully up to speed both from a cost standpoint as well as driving revenue synergies.
In the longer term we certainly would expect acquisitions will continue to be as they have been in the past a part of our growth strategy filling in holes for vertical markets product or technologies or geographies.
So I think all those are going to be positive and certainly Bill's experience in those areas will be a great help.
But I don't think you should read into this too much.
He was in the M&amp;A corporate development job only for a few months at UTC.
His primary background is in running businesses and growing businesses organically.
But he's got a lot of experience in allowing acquisitions to fit and to fit effectively.
So it will be a great added value that he'll bring to the company by having that experience.
But I don't think you should read into that it's going to somehow change Harris' strategy or that the Board is going to go out and charge Bill of doing a big deal like the UTC-Goodrich acquisition.
That's just -- that's coincidental.
And in fact it hadn't even been announced when they were talking with Bill.
So that was not why they went out and found him.
Research Division</strong> Very good.
And a follow-up is on the NIE the test for the Falcon III that's coming up in the fall.
Can you discuss some of the capabilities you're looking for how the radio is performing? And if I understand this is just a technical evaluation.
They're not looking at economic considerations such as the cost of the radios.
Is that correct? Yes that's my understanding that the NIE doesn't really look at cost.
Although I think General Odierno's quote that I read clearly says that he's interested in cost and speed and capability.
And I think that's where we win this game.
We really are offering all 3 of those and no one else can do it.
In terms of additional features I think it's more of the same.
I think it's very much about the network and the network effectivity.
We'll be able to use radios now from Harris at that NIE in the fall that will have both the SRW and the ANW2 waveform.
No one else is going to have both of those in the radio.
And -- so we just have such a significant lead but I think it's just -- it's more of the same.
The last one was the first NIE.
Part of it is just getting I think a tempo of doing this a couple of times a year.
But I can't really speak to any specific requirements they have added over the last one at this point Michael.
So I'm just not aware of anything significantly different.
But I know what we're going to be bringing are the lessons learned and continued enhancements we've made since the last one and the integration of the SRW2 -- SRW waveform into both the 117G and the 152.
Our next question comes from Josephine Millward with The Benchmark Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> A bunch of your RF orders were actually announced in October.
Is there a reason why you're including them in your September quarter? We're certainly not including October orders in the September orders booked.
We're talking about them because we think they're significant.
They occurred after the quarter end.
So when the orders booked is what determines what quarter it goes into sometimes -- in fact in every case there's usually a gap of at least a few weeks between when we get an order and when the customer approves a press release allowing us to announce it.
So those don't always line up when we issue it.
It's normally weeks.
As Pam said sometimes it's longer.
But we can announce an order in October but the order may have been booked received and appropriately booked in September.
It would have been included in the first quarter numbers.
But we don't include anything in the quarter that doesn't meet our requirements as a bookable order and that's got a pretty high threshold and E&amp;Y [indiscernible] reviews that.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's what I thought.
So the $66 million Falcon III order for brigade combat team was received in September but you didn't press release it until October.
Right.
That's correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
I was wondering if you can -- now that the government is operating under a CR again can you comment on whether you're seeing any impact on your order activities so far? I don't think we've seen anything immediately.
We've tried to look at this every which way.
We don't believe that the CR would have a meaningful impact on our fiscal '12 operations.
We have tried to bake into our outlook what we think may be some impact.
Now it's always possible it could be worse.
But I don't feel like today there is much downside for Harris Corporation if we stayed on a continued resolution for the rest of fiscal year '12.
'13 '14 '15 there's lots of question marks out there regarding budgets and so on.
So I'm not going to comment on that because I don't know what's going to happen anymore than you do.
Bottom line is I think our '12 guidance is solid and the continuing CR shouldn't have much downside impact this fiscal year.
I think that again our level of diversification in programs in customers and now across a number of government and commercial vertical markets should allow us to continue to outperform the market.
Will we outperform at a level we're all happy with? I think that time remains to be seen whether we do that.
But I really like our position and it's much stronger than it would have been if this had happened several years ago where we were much more dependent only on a couple of growth initiatives.
We do have a follow-up from Pete Skibitski with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes just a couple of quick follow-ups.
I think you guys have a large Veterans Affairs multi-award IDIQ called T4.
Is that on protest? Or is that in the clear now? I'm not aware that we have anything with the VA under protest.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the classified wins in GCS can you just maybe characterize them? Are those space-related? No I can't really talk about the details.
Our work in classified generally has kind of 3 categories.
It's space systems it's mission systems and it's information systems.
And I think we're seeing a strong progress in all 3 of those areas.
So I don't think it's any one particular area.
This part of our business has been a little cyclical and we're very pleased to see it coming back.
We have great long-term relationships with customers and our teams' performance on these very very difficult technologies has just been superior over time.
Thank you very much.
And again I want to thank all of you for your interest in Harris and I hope that you will stay tuned.
I think this company has a very very bright future.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
And again I'm sorry for the late start.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Harris Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Janeda and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Ms.
Pamela Padgett Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our Second Quarter Fiscal 2012 Earnings Call.
It's so nice to be saying good morning instead of good afternoon.
I'm Pamela Padgett and on the call with me today is Bill Brown President and CEO; Gary McArthur Senior VP and Chief Financial Officer; Dan Pearson Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Before we get started a few words on forward-looking statements.
In the course of the teleconference management may make forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements involve assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those statements.
For more information and a discussion of such assumptions risks and uncertainties please see the press release and filings made by Harris with the SEC.
In addition in our press release and on this teleconference and the related presentation we will discuss certain financial measures and information that are non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to the comparable GAAP measures is included in the tables of our press release and on the Investor Relations section of our website which is www.harris.com.
A replay of this call will also be available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
And with that Bill I'll turn the call over to you.
Okay.
Thank you Pam and I want to welcome all of you to our Second Quarter Fiscal 2012 Earnings Call.
As you know I came to Harris from United Technologies where I've held a number of line and functional roles including leading large global businesses from both the U.S.
and Asia and executing on a large number of acquisitions and divestitures.
I also spent 7 years at McKinsey &amp; Company working on a variety of strategy and operational improvement projects for a number of industrial companies.
While my background is more in the commercial than the government space I believe my global experience track record for M&amp;A and post-merger integration and operational excellence capabilities are all very relevant to Harris and important in the current environment.
Given the challenges we now face with constrained government spending we need to take a fresh look at our strategy and ensure we're as successful in the next decade as we were in the last.
So while the purpose of today's call is to detail our Q2 results and outlook for the year I'd like to provide you a few initial thoughts and perspectives on what I've seen so far and what I expect to focus on in the near term recognizing it's still early and I have much to see and learn.
But first I'd like to quickly review some of the highlights of our second quarter results turn it over to Gary to walk through the details of the financials and then come back to share with you a few perspectives.
Turning to Slides 3 and 4 in the presentation Harris posted solid second quarter results with revenue of $1.45 billion and non-GAAP EPS of $1.22 both slightly ahead of the prior year.
Orders were $1.2 billion down 15% following a strong start in Q1 and we announced today that we received a very large $235 million Tactical Communications order from Australia in mid-January after the quarter closed the second phase of a $500 million multiyear modernization program.
GAAP and non-GAAP net income were lower primarily due to the lack of the expedited MRAP shipments in Q2 of last year.
All segments reported sequential operating margin improvement and cash flow from operations increased significantly compared to the previous quarter and prior year supporting expectations for strong cash flow again this year.
I'll turn it over to Gary to comment on segment results and guidance outlook and then I'll come back with a few comments before we open the call to questions.
Gary? Thank you Bill and good morning everyone.
Moving to segment results on Slide 5 revenue for RF Communications was $526 million compared to $545 million in the prior year.
Tactical Communications revenue was $391 million declining 8%.
Prior-year revenue benefited from the last quarter of expedited MRAP shipments to the DoD.
Excluding the $80 million of MRAP revenue in the prior year Tactical Communications revenue increased double digit with international revenue more than offsetting the decline in DoD.
International revenue growth was driven by major deliveries to countries in Africa and Asia.
In Public Safety and Professional Communications revenue growth was excellent increasing 14% to $135 million.
Operating income was lower as expected compared with the prior year.
Sequentially operating margin increased from 31% in the first quarter to 33% in the second quarter improving as a result of a more favorable product mix continuing cost containment and lower manufacturing costs.
Orders for the segment totaled $268 million.
Tactical Communication orders were $183 million and backlog was $581 million.
Book-to-bill for Tactical Communications was only 0.47 however as Bill mentioned the order from Australia gets us off to a strong start in Q3.
At the most recent Army NIE event Harris' integrated wideband networking capabilities successfully connected dismounted soldiers to senior commanders across an Army brigade combat team using our 117G and the new 152A wideband handheld radios.
The system continued to demonstrate Harris' leadership in wideband communications services providing voice data and video in support of the Army's modernization efforts and validated the maturity of our product offerings.
We continue to see demand for our products from all branches of the U.S.
DoD.
In addition to the 117G opportunities for the Army we expect later this year to be awarded a multiyear Falcon III IDIQ contract for the U.S.
Special Forces with a potential value of up to $400 million and a 4-year 152 and 152A IDIQ contract for JTRS CISCHR next gen with a potential value of up to $500 million.
The domestic 12- to 18-month opportunity pipeline remains healthy and well-funded and as of the end of the quarter was $1.2 billion.
International opportunities continue to be strong led by several multiyear modernization programs.
Let me give you a couple of examples.
In the quarter it did include a $70 million order from an undisclosed country in Africa for the second phase of this potential $400 million multiyear program bringing total orders for this program to $257 million.
Another example is an $11 million order from the Brazilian Ministry of Defense for Falcon II and Falcon III radios as part of a multiyear modernization program having a potential opportunity in excess of $300 million.
Orders to-date in this rapidly emerging market now total $29 million.
And in Australia the large order we received was for Phase II of a potential $500 million Department of Defense JP2072 multiyear modernization program.
This is the second order under this program bringing total orders to-date to $347 million.
These multiyear modernization programs when combined with similar programs in Iraq a country in Central Asia and Mexico and the additional sales that come from over 100 other countries around the world continue to position us well in international markets.
At the end of the quarter the 12- to 18-month opportunity pipeline for international was $2.3 billion.
Adding the $3 billion pipeline for Public Safety to the $3.5 billion for Tactical Communications the total 12- to 18-month pipeline for the RF Communications segment is a healthy $6.5 billion.
Now let me move to Integrated Network Solutions so please go to Slide 6.
Second quarter revenue in Integrated Network Solutions increased 6% to $526 million primarily as a result of the acquisition of Schlumberger's Global Connectivity Services business and strong growth in healthcare.
On an organic basis revenue declined 4% driven primarily by a significant decline in IT Services revenue resulting from the lost Patriot program lower IT spend coming through government IDIQ contracts and contested program awards.
While non-GAAP operating income was flat year-over-year sequential improvement was driven by lower losses in Cyber and Healthcare and improving performance in Broadcast.
At Broadcast the team and our manufacturing partner did an excellent job mitigating the impact of the Thailand flood to approximately $5 million of revenue and $2.5 million of profit which are now expected to book in Q3.
And at Broadcast our revenue and operating income were both up year-over-year.
In Healthcare revenue growth was strong and driven by continuing strength in the government market.
While our entry into the commercial healthcare market has ramped slower than expected opportunities are starting to firm and we're expecting continued improvement in the back half.
We still expect Healthcare Solutions to be profitable for the year.
In CapRock Communications organic revenue declined 5% due to the installation of a large subsea tsunami warning system in our legacy maritime business in the prior year.
Pro forma revenue for our recently acquired companies increased 5% year-over-year led by excellent growth in the government market for managed satellite communications solutions.
The leading indicators for this business such as oil and gas capital spending rig count and demand for bandwidth are all up and we expect double-digit revenue growth in the back half of fiscal 2012.
Losses in our Cyber initiative have continued.
Our plans to provide trusted cloud hosting for government agencies and our distribution partnership targeted at the enterprise market are materializing slower than expected.
We're evaluating alternative corrective actions with a plan of getting back to you within the next few months regarding any steps we may take.
Let me now move to Government Communications Systems going to Slide 7.
Revenue in the Government Communications Systems segment was $422 million in the second quarter flat with the prior year.
Good growth in classified programs and commercial satellite reflectors was offset by declines in DoD programs and the completion of FDCA.
Operating income was $63 million up 6% as a result of outstanding cost performance on fixed-price programs along with a favorable product mix continuing to drive our above-industry average operating margin.
High bid volume generated during the quarter is expected to turn into back half awards now that the government budget is set.
Wins in the second quarter included being selected as part of the Boeing team to continue providing communications capability for the Ground-Based Midcourse Defense contract GMD.
Our existing diversified program base large opportunities ahead in focused areas such as the FAA and the government-stated priorities in ISR have the business well positioned for the expected tougher government spending environment ahead.
Now let me talk to a few of our financial highlights going to Slide 8.
We ended the quarter with $387 million of cash on hand.
Cash flow from operations was $199 million compared to $94 million in the prior year.
All 3 segments generated positive operating cash flow.
Operating cash flow was especially strong at RF Communications where as expected as compared to the prior quarter day sales outstanding improved nearly 4 days and inventory turns by 0.5 turns as a result of a full quarter of manufacturing and shipments at the new facility.
Free cash flow was also strong at $159 million.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 34.1%.
Moving to fiscal 2012 guidance as shown on Slide 9 consolidated revenue is now expected to be about $6 billion and non-GAAP earnings per share remains in a range of $5.10 to $5.30 per diluted share.
In RF Communications revenue is now expected to be 6% to 8% lower than the prior year including a 12% decline in Tactical Communications.
Public Safety is still expected to grow double digit.
Segment operating margin is now expected to be about 33%.
In Integrated Network Solutions revenue is now expected to increase 9% to 11% with organic growth of flat to 2%.
Non-GAAP operating margin is still expected to be between 5.5% and 6.5%.
In Government Communications Systems revenue is now expected to be 1% to 3% higher than fiscal 2011 with operating margins of about 14%.
Nonoperating income in the second quarter was approximately $3 million as a result of royalty income and we expect additional royalty income in the third and fourth quarters resulting in $10 million to $15 million of nonoperating income for the year.
In short we're maintaining our EPS guidance as lower expected operating income at RF Communications and Integrated Network Solutions is expected to be offset by margin improvement in Government Communications Systems higher nonoperating income and lower expenses from cost-control initiatives.
The guidance provided does not include any actions we may take with our Cyber initiative.
We continue to expect cash flow from operations to improve each quarter in the back half and we're maintaining our guidance of $825 million to $875 million.
Our outlook for the full year non-GAAP tax rate remains at 33% with the tax rate for any given quarter varying up or down for discrete tax events.
With that let me turn it back to Bill.
Okay.
Thank you Gary.
Clearly we're in a more challenging environment with constrained government funding but we have some very strong competitive positions.
A smaller more nimble fighting force will require more advanced information and communications capabilities as well as stronger international coalition partners both of which clearly play to our strengths.
Our Tactical Communications business has been wildly successful over the past decade and I like our position today.
We have a unique commercial business model that fosters speed and innovation.
The wideband modernization of tactical networks in the U.S.
is underway and our products are performing well both on the battlefield and in test evaluations and we're winning the large multiyear opportunities in the international arena.
Our lead in the marketplace is exceptional and what's made us successful in the past will continue to do so in the future and that is excellent execution on the things that we control: the technology the cost the quality of our products and the responsiveness of our organization to our customers.
And I'm thrilled with the team we're fielding to get that done.
In Public Safety I kind of like our odds of being David against Goliath.
A lot of good work has been done to improve our products and systems but we need to broaden our offering; drive technology adoption like LTE; develop a stronger more robust distribution channel; and reduce our cost structure.
We have noise cancellation software-defined radio and deep RF systems expertise which we can leverage from a tactical radio business.
And the war fighters who loved our tactical radios on the battlefield are now the first responders using our products stateside.
The market is large in North America and developing rapidly in places like Brazil and I'm bullish about gaining share and winning in Public Safety.
In Government Communications we have very good balance across the defense national intelligence and civil sectors above-industry average margins and a number of multiyear franchise-type programs.
This is a business with truly innovative technologies led by a team that knows how to execute well on large complex programs like operating the FAA's air traffic control telecom network where every single day 65 000 flights arrive safely using our highly secure and reliable network that operates at very high performance standards across more than 4 000 locations.
And I've learned that our work with the FAA is a great calling card with potential commercial customers and I'm excited about continuing to explore opportunities to apply this and other technologies in the commercial space.
In Integrated Network Solutions our strategy which was developed to counterbalance the anticipated slowdown in government spending remains a work in process.
In IT Services we have a good cost structure and solid margins but like everybody else we're facing budgetary headwinds.
We have an excellent team in place that is quickly adjusting cost to match declining volume in order to protect our earnings and are executing very very well.
In Broadcast we bought several companies over the years which were never fully integrated.
While we continue to see good traction on the top line our cost structure driven by complexity lack of productivity and growth investments isn't where we need it to be and it’s preventing us from achieving acceptable returns.
Our team is now laser-focused on developing a strategy for this business that maximizes shareholder value.
In Cyber we know there's a large growing market for cloud computing and we have the technology and expertise to be an important player in it but it's becoming clear that customers both government and commercial currently have a preference for on-premise versus off-premise solutions.
As this market evolves it's also becoming clearer that customers don't place additional value on trust and are unwilling to move the most mission-critical applications to the cloud before less-sensitive applications are thoroughly tested and vetted in a cloud environment.
As a result the capital-intensive facility that we've built in anticipation of rapid growth in off-prem hosting remains highly underutilized and a significant financial drag and resolving this issue while crafting a new winning Cyber strategy is one of my top near-term priorities.
In Healthcare we expect to end the year with over $200 million in revenue from a standing start 4 years ago.
We're continuing to see a lot of traction in our government business where significant investments are being made to ring out inefficiency and improve patient outcomes through information technology like at the Veterans’ Administration and in state health information exchanges.
On the commercial side we're seeing an expanding pipeline of opportunities for the second half but we need to clearly articulate a differentiated strategy to win longer term in this space.
The commercial and the government markets are very very different and the important question for this business is whether our skills and successes in the government arena can translate into the commercial environment.
In CapRock which you'll recall is the combination of 3 recent acquisitions totaling almost $1 billion of investment we're seeing good market traction in each of our key verticals: government energy and maritime.
CapRock is the largest satellite bandwidth provider in the world other than the U.S.
government and will benefit from the explosive growth of bandwidth demand for applications in some of the harshest and most remote locations in the world offshore oil platforms undersea cabling ocean-going vessels among others.
This business has clear potential for sales growth and margin expansion and while we're still in the early innings of post-merger integration I like our prospects in this space.
Overall I see opportunities to improve on post-merger integration and I expect in the environment we face to be relentless in reducing cost and improving productivity throughout the company.
And while our cash flow is good I see opportunities to make it even better and to encourage more scrutiny in our capital spending.
Acquisitions will clearly play a role in executing on our long-term strategy but we don't have any acquisition of consequence on the near-term horizon.
In an environment where our top line has become more difficult to predict we'll be focused on what we already own and what we control.
And finally we'll continue to be conservative on cash deployment with a focus on rewarding shareholders through dividends and share buyback and maintaining a healthy balance sheet.
So in a nutshell we'll stay focused strategically.
We'll pay a lot more attention to cost and cash.
We'll keep working on gaining share through technology innovation and satisfying customers and we'll make decisions like owners because that's what we are.
I'm excited to be part of this great company.
We have a terrific team with high ethical standards a strong technology foundation and a solid financial position.
And with that I'd like to now ask the operator to open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Gautam Khanna with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Wanted to just get your thoughts on 2 issues.
One you mentioned Broadcast maybe open to maximizing shareholder value there.
Are there any other parts of the portfolio that don't align well with kind of the strategy 3 to 5 years out? Secondly on the cash deployment you mentioned buybacks and dividends taking priority over M&amp;A.
What do you think the optimal leverage is in this business? I know right now you’re at net debt to cap of 48 or thereabouts.
Did you want to pay down some debt before you could do that or do you think you're comfortable with an elevated amount of leverage going forward? Gautam thank you for the questions and let me address the first one out of the gates.
We're taking a fresh look in the environment that we're in across all of our businesses with a special focus on cash on cost some of the structural cost.
Some of the structural cost reductions will come through some investment which we'll know over the coming months.
We'll give you some insights as we go through the quarter if there's anything that’s notable that needs to be released or at our third quarter call later in the year.
But to comment on what's in or out of the portfolio we're taking a fresh look at all the pieces and that includes all the business that we happen to be in today.
On the side of on cash deployment we don't have any acquisitions that are on the near-term horizon but clearly acquisitions will play an important role in our longer-term growth strategy.
Whether it happens to be 3 to 5 years out still remains to be seen.
We're trying to figure out just what we're going to do to deliver the balance of the year and the guidance that Gary and I have given you today.
In the near term we do have some debt that we will pay down.
It's mostly short-term commercial paper.
And we'll be very prudent how we deploy the rest of the cash towards share buyback and dividends and we'll have more to say about that in the coming months.
I don’t know if Gary if you have anything you want to add to that.
Yes I'll just add a couple of comments Gautam.
We're very comfortable with a debt to total capital in the mid-40s to as much as 50% range.
Right now we have every expectation that with paying down commercial paper as Bill mentioned we'll be back in the mid-40s by year end.
And we haven't ruled out additional share buyback or increasing our dividend.
We've been targeting a dividend of about a 20% payout ratio.
That's yielding about a 2% 2.8% yield currently.
We're totally comfortable in that 20% to 25% payout ratio range and so we'll be looking at that going forward as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just some questions about the guidance that’s probably one best handled by Bill and one by Gary.
Within the segment level detail Gary you're obviously in the back half implying sequential margin improvement in RF and INS and some contraction relative to the numbers you called out in Government Communications which I think are business performance-related as you called out in the release.
But I wondered if you might provide a little color in what's driving the expansion both in INS and in RF.
And then for Bill as you look at the guidance I know this is -- maybe it's too early to say with any sort of certainty but as you look to the last 2 quarters and you've only been here for this one we've gone sort of 2 consecutive quarters where we've lowered the outlook for 3 segments the top line.
And I'm wondering how much of this quarter's change given the environment is reactionary versus sort of precautionary given your sort of fresh look at the business over the last couple months.
You want to take the first one? Yes I'll go ahead and take the first one.
Bill jump in.
With regards to better margins at both RF Communications and Integrated Network Solutions part of that at RF Communications as we talked about is continuing to control costs lowering manufacturing expense for the products and we have put in place a real initiative across the company to maintain costs in the back half which are going to benefit RF as well as Integrated Network Solutions.
With regards to Government Communications Systems they're just doing a great job of performing.
The award fees are very high and we're seeing really good results throughout that business.
And then with the nonoperating income as we talked about picking up in the back half that will help as well.
So overall we're very comfortable with the guidance and feel good about what we've done.
On your second question Carter it relates to the first one as well and that's our degree of comfort in the guidance for the year and sort of the look that we've had in the last 90 days.
Revenue has tightened down a little bit and that's because of the pace that the orders have come in.
We're now at about $6 billion for the year.
And Gary described where that's coming from and the sources of that.
We were at $510 million to $530 million on EPS guidance for the year.
We're still in that same range.
Obviously the slowdown in RF and INS does have an impact on our guidance.
That was about $0.16 or so since the last time we released earnings.
We have a bit of a pickup in GCS in the Government business about $0.05.
That business is performing well.
Growth has been pretty solid.
We had extraordinarily good margin in the quarter and we think it's going to be very good margins for the year.
And as Gary just pointed out we are picking up about $0.06 to $0.07 in nonoperating income in the year that was not necessarily factored in prior guidance.
We also are looking at what we're doing in taking out some expenses across the company particularly at the corporate office and headquarter expenses and eliminations.
That was about $0.03.
So net-net we've seen some reduction in the RF and the INS business but it's offset by some other components and we think we'll deliver in the $510 million to $530 million range for the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Noah Poponak from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Bill the company I guess at its Investor Day almost a year ago provided some long-term targets compound annual growth rates for each segment on the top line margins for each segment as well as total earnings for the company.
And I wondered if you would speak to your view of those long-term targets.
I'm aware of the targets that were described a year ago.
And frankly Noah in the last 90 days and certainly over the next 6 months we're going to be focused pretty aggressively on delivering against the guidance we've given you today.
We'll have more to say at the third quarter release about FY '13.
We'll have an investor conference in early June.
We'll talk a little bit with a little more color on FY '13 but right now my focus is delivering FY '12 and the guidance we've given you today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean is there anything in particular within those targets that you view as unachievable? I mean I guess we're all particularly focused on RF where the long-term forecast there was an upper single-digit CAGR versus now we're looking at a negative growth rate in '12.
Maybe specifically do you still see that as achievable in RF? I'd rather not comment on where we might be 2 3 years out in any particular business.
The only comment I would make is the one thing that we have seen we're describing to you today is the progress that we thought we'd make in the Cyber business is not materializing as we had first thought.
But again any commentary beyond where we are in FY '12 I think is going to be beyond this call today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just one other one are there any major re-competes anywhere in the business over the next year that are worth highlighting? Why don't I turn it to Dan Pearson? No none that we have on this horizon.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lewis with Lazard.
Research Division</strong> My question is with regards to Tactical sales.
If we could talk a little bit about the comparison of Q2 '12 versus Q2 '11 breaking out the U.S.
versus international portfolio by both revenue and order so we can get a sense of where that subsegment sits right now and where specifically the U.S.
market is that would be helpful.
Let me first comment on where we think we'll be for the year and then I'll let Gary offer some comments on where we ended up in Q2.
For the year we do expect as we've indicated before that the international business on orders on revenue will be slightly ahead of U.S.
DoD on the course of the full year.
We have seen international activity pick up over the last few years and it's certainly going to be an important driver this year as U.S.
DoD softens a little bit.
Gary any comments on Q2 specifically? Yes not much more than what I said.
Obviously we did see that if you took out the $80 million of MRAP revenue that was in last year that we didn't benefit from this year the business did grow and it was basically the decline in U.S.
was offset more than that with the growth in the international business.
So we saw a really good growth international.
We saw a little bit of a decline in the U.S.
market which was offset by international.
And again if you take out the MRAP it was good growth overall for the Tactical Communications segment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the way I hear this is that it sounds like the U.S.
market is still doing relatively well as we back up the MRAP sales from the year-over-year comparable.
I think that's fair.
As we mentioned we have lots of IDIQ contracts coming up that we have lots of opportunities.
Overall the business is always lumpy on orders.
We didn't have an outstanding second quarter.
We had a very strong first quarter and we have expectations for good third and fourth quarters in the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Valera with Needham &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Was wondering if you could give us an update on your discussions about getting your ANW2 waveform into the JTRS repository if there's any update there.
We have initiated conversations with the U.S.
government around granting government purpose rights for ANW2 and those conversations those discussions are still ongoing.
LLC Research Division</strong> And any other color you can give on what happened at the full NIE? It sounds like you were pretty happy with your performance.
Any potential implications from your performance there in terms of potential new IDIQ vehicles perhaps down the road? What we've heard anecdotally and then through various sources that we performed very very well in the NIEs and we have been invited back to the April NIE and any specific stand that you want to offer on any takeaways...
No.
Rich I think we're very happy with it.
The summary report last one's not out yet so it will be all anecdotal but we have done very very well.
And as you saw with the retiring vice-chief he did specifically mention how that is that helped us get that 117G order.
We're going to have over around 400 117Gs and 100 handhelds and a lot of high-capacity line-of-sights like the one in April.
So we're really going to be expanding the network and the integration we're doing there.
So we're pretty excited about how it's going.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple.
Just on the Cyber Bill if you guys quantify how large the loss is there so we can kind of think about as you eliminate that loss or reduce it significantly what the profit opportunity might be there.
And then in terms of the facility it was a large investment.
Is there opportunities for repositioning that either within Harris or outside of Harris and just as you think about recovering that what are the opportunities? The other question is just on the government comm margins.
They were great.
I think this was the highest quarter ever at 14.9%.
It seems like there's some positive EFT adjustments in there that are helping.
Gary can you quantify those? And is there any commercial off-the-shelf mix starting to come into this or is this just all fixed-price normal government pricing? Thank you Joe.
A number of components there.
Let me start with Cyber for the year.
In Q1 we lost about $10 million.
We were on a run rate for the year between $30 million and $40 million of losses is the expected losses on the Cyber business.
I think as you know we've mentioned before we’ve invested in the Harrisonburg facility just under $200 million.
Of course we're looking at all available options internally to find what we can do to best maximize the value of that asset that we have.
But we've made no determination as to what we're going to do at the disposition of it at this point.
And as I mentioned earlier as we make decisions we'll certainly communicate with investors as to what we decide to do.
But about $200 million was the total investment.
Okay.
And going to Government Systems Communications let me just talk about the 14.9% was obviously outstanding operating margins for the quarter.
Several things impacting that.
Award fees as we said have been outstanding across the business.
We have been -- if you remember in commercial reflectors in years past we had some big write-offs in that area.
We learned from that.
We are the best in the world at building some of the largest reflectors and margins in that business it’s a fixed-price business have been excellent and we've seen a lot of opportunity in space reflectors in the commercial and on the government side.
So that business is contributing very well.
We also have our wireless products group and our high-band networking radios that are more products in natures.
Those carry higher margins and we've seen good sales for those products that are helping.
And we've seen a real uptake in classified which has always been a higher-margin business for us because of the work that we do.
So all of those are benefiting the high margins that we're seeing in the Government Communications Systems business.
Research Division</strong> Were there any reversals of any of those write-offs in the reflectors business during the quarter? I wouldn't call them reversals.
We basically had some reserves on programs and because of better execution we were able to see those go away and be mitigated but nothing in the reversal form.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Jordan with Noble Financial.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question relates about your discussion of pipeline.
I believe you phrased the pipeline for both international and DoD as a 12- to 18-month pipeline.
I think on prior calls it’d been referred to as a 15-month or 5-month pipeline.
Is there a difference way you're looking at it or is this just a change in terminology but it's basically the same roll-up methodology being used? And then sort of a second related question the IDIQs that you're receiving obviously they're sole-sourced for your specific products but is there any other competitive product out there that could have addressed the needs of those 2 customers? Well let me answer that.
The first one with regards to your question it's really the 12- to 18-month is no different than how we've looked at it before.
15 months was just the midpoint.
Yes.
We probably flip-flop in how we talk about it.
But it's no difference on that.
And then with regards to your second question just repeat it so I make sure I got it right.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well the IDIQs are obviously for specific radios which are yours so the assumption obviously that those are sole-sourced.
The question was is there a competitive product in the marketplace that could have addressed the needs of this customer? Yes.
Well let me talk to the CISCHRs one because in the past that has been competitive.
We did compete with Thales on that for handhelds which were -- our offering was the 152 and the 152A.
I would expect that go forward that would be competitive as well.
We have been winning the majority of those contract awards because of the performance of our product.
The 152A is the only wideband networking handheld radio in the market so depending on how they write the specs it could be potentially sole-sourced.
But if they write it in a general way we would be competing against Thales on that.
The U.S.
Special Forces I know that we are probably the only product out there.
But I wouldn't say that there isn't other competition because the DoD is always trying to promote competition.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Quilty with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I had a question concerning last week's sort of preview on the FY '13 budget.
One of the issues I think for the tactical radio business is the expectation that they're going to reduce land forces by about 100 000 troops or 13% which obviously means less demand for radios.
On the other hand the document sort of obliquely talks about increasing investments in communications.
So was just looking for your thoughts on whether that's a push in terms of those 2 offsetting or do you think it’s some near-term weakness with longer-term upside or how you think that might play out.
I mean I would say the guidance that we've given you today through the balance of FY '12 is consistent with whatever we've heard and seen at both the FY '12 and some previews on the FY '13 budget as well.
And there are some things that we've seen in the FY '13 look that work in our favor.
The emphasis on Special Forces happens to be one and we do know there's some things that might give us a little bit of pressure and that's the declining troop 100 000 both in the Army and the Navy.
But beyond FY '12 and our guidance for today we're still trying to sort through waiting to see specific line item detail coming out of the budgets.
And Chris it's Dan.
I think from that perspective again if you look at the obliqueness as you mentioned the mobility of the force not just the structure and the number but the mobility aspect of it it's going to play to our advantages on wideband networking.
So my view of that is kind of a push right now until we get more specifics and see how it's going to play out when the President comes out with it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And Dan you had mentioned there's no big rebids but what are beyond the FAA data comm which I think is June? Yes it's not a re-compete.
That's a new one and then… Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well yes I was going to say besides that what are the other new opportunities you'll be looking at in the next 12 months? Well the big ones in GCSD will be data comm which has been bid and we're doing the -- also the proposal now for next generation voice switch.
So FAA is very big right now.
There's some interesting classified work going on but those are really the biggest one.
The FAA is again that recap for NexGen and some classified things.
But other than that and  key funded on GOES-R and things I don't think there's what I call the big critical pursuit in GCSD.
CISCHRs for Dana is -- the IDIQs will big for him and as you know we've got some very good international opportunities continuing to play out.
Those are really the big ones.
Your next question comes from the line of Larry Harris with CL King.
Inc.</strong> I was interested in the announcement recently that you set up a final assembly facility for Tactical Communications in Brazil.
I believe a number of years ago you had one in the U.K.
Are there plans perhaps to put additional facilities in other locations? And I assume this would help your international sales process.
Could it also help reduce the cost of manufacturing? Well we haven't made any decisions to set up any other manufacturing facilities outside of what's been announced to date.
As you know we've made large investment in Rochester to upgrade our facilities to move from 3 factories into 1 which I've seen.
It’s truly a world-class state-of-the-art facility that we're very very proud of.
And outside of this newest line in Brazil we don't have any other plans to establish anything beyond that.
Yes Larry this is Dan.
We would only -- we do that when the national funds require us to go do that.
It is obvious that we would like to be an exporter from Jefferson Road.
But at the same time large countries and large opportunities national programs they require that.
So we'll look at them case by case.
None more on the horizon that we see right now.
We do have a question from the line of Josh Sullivan from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I think you'd mentioned that the Tactical backlog would benefit from an international order this quarter.
But what about the Public Safety side of the business? How's that market and backlog maturing just both domestically and internationally? This is Gary responding.
Most of the backlog opportunity is in North America.
Internationally it's specific to countries that have the Apco P25 standard that we have opportunities in.
And in North America we're seeing a very strong backlog.
I'm not going to get into specifics but we said it's about $3 billion.
That's pretty consistent with where we were last time I think we talked.
And there are some opportunities that are pretty near in that we expect some announcements on.
But overall the backlog is good.
As we talked about our growth of 14% in the quarter was outstanding and the business is today very very competitive with our largest incumbent and we feel very good about the opportunities ahead.
Your next question comes from the line of Gautam Khanna with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes I wanted a couple of clarification points.
One when you mentioned the $80 million of MRAP in the prior-year period does that compare to 0 this quarter or is there any recurring kind of spares or logistics tail to that? It was effectively 0 this quarter $80 million a year ago.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
The Australian order and just maybe more generally on international RF business can you comment on kind of directionally the margins how they compare with the U.S.
DoD business? I'll take that one.
This is Gary.
Gautam the margins have been pretty consistent.
Obviously when you take into consideration there's a commission as well but when you put the commission in with the higher margins that we typically get for international they're not that much different than what we have received in the U.S.
marketplace.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then to follow up on Joe's question about the government comm margins could you maybe quantify what the award fees added? What the margins may have been ex the award fees ex the usual award fees? I'd probably have to get back to you on that Gautam.
I don't have that exact dollar amount in front of me but we could sure get you the detail and get it to you if you need it over -- in a call.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes I guess maybe you can comment now just directionally where do you think margins over time move in that segment? Well we've given guidance for this year that they'll be around 14%.
I think in talking to the team and the nature of our business being the cost-plus fixed-price kind of 50-ish percent in each of those we still think 13.5% is a very good margin for the business.
Depending on the product mix if we're selling more of the high-bandwidth network radios the WPG products we get other reflector business maybe it's a little better than that.
But I think overall you should consider this business in that 13.5% kind of range.
13.5% 14% is very good performance Your next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up on RF I thought I remembered the expedited MRAP orders of a year ago sort of limiting the capacity that you had to ship international.
And I wondered this uptick we see this quarter on a kind of year-over-year basis for international if there's any sort of element of a catch-up associated with that that we should be considering as we build our models for next year? Or is this a base level of business that sort of we can build upon? Yes Carter this is Dan.
No I don't think there'll be any issues with that.
The factory is up and fully running.
And some of these programs are not "expedited" in the sense they'll be on a more delivery schedule.
So I don't think we have any issues with that.
All right.
Thank you everyone for joining us this morning.
Really appreciate it.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2012 Harris Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Janetta and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over for your host today Ms.
Pamela Padgett Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Hello everyone.
Good morning.
Welcome to our Third Quarter Fiscal 2012 Earnings Call.
On the call today is Bill Brown President and CEO; Gary McArthur Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Dan Pearson Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
And before we get started a few words about forward-looking statements.
In the course of this teleconference management may make forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements involve assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those statements.
For more information and a discussion of such assumptions risks and uncertainties please see the press release and filings made by Harris with the SEC.
In addition in our press release and on this teleconference and the related presentation we will discuss certain financial measures and information that are non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to the comparable GAAP measures is included in tables of our press release and on the Investor Relations section of our website which is www.harris.com.
A replay of this call will also be available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
And with that Bill I turn the call over to you.
Thank you Pam and welcome to our Third Quarter Fiscal 2012 Earnings Call.
I'll quickly review some of the highlights of our third quarter results turn it over to Gary to walk through the details of the financials and then come back to you with a few comments before opening the call to questions.
Turning to Slides 3 and 4 in the presentation.
Harris posted solid third quarter results with orders revenue and non-GAAP earnings all higher compared to prior year.
Revenue increased 4% to $1.48 billion and book-to-bill was greater than 1.
Non-GAAP EPS of $1.39 increased 18% over the prior year and was driven by operating income growth at RF and Government Communications nonrecurring royalty income and a lower share count from first quarter repurchases.
On the last call I said we were going to be conservative on cash deployment with a focus on rewarding shareholders.
We resolved a significant financial drag from the Cyber hosting facility and completed a thorough review of our business portfolio and we've made good progress on all 3 fronts.
The company continues to generate strong free cash flow and at the end of February we increased our dividend by 18% and raised our target payout ratio from 20% to 25%.
We also announced in the third quarter that we are exiting the underutilized Cyber hosting facility and the process to divest the assets is progressing quickly.
Our business portfolio review is well under way and today we're announcing the decision to divest Broadcast Communications which we believe is no longer aligned with the company's long-term strategy.
The combination of a lack of effective integration by the company over the last decade coupled with a market outlook that is not as promising today as once believed led us to conclude that the best -- that the business is best owned by another party.
Although Broadcast is no longer core to our company we believe the business has the potential for strong growth and margin expansion is led by a solid leadership team and has long-term value for someone who brings a focused approach to the broadcast and media market.
It's our intention to use the proceeds to return cash to shareholders and invest in growing our core businesses.
Also as we said on our last call the slower government spending environment requires increased attention to operational excellence and lowering costs including a sharper focus on supply chain factory and field costs overhead rates and employment levels.
The guidance that Gary will give in a moment reflects the cost-reduction actions we are taking in the fourth quarter that will benefit us in FY '13.
I'll turn it over to Gary to comment on segment results and guidance outlook and then I'll come back with a few comments before we open the call to questions.
Gary? Thank you Bill and good morning.
Moving to segment results on Slide 5.
Revenue for RF Communications was $538 million compared to $550 million in the prior year.
Tactical Communications revenue was $398 million and declined 8% driven by a significant decline in DoD.
Although down slightly due to transitioning to Phase 2 of the Australia order international revenue was at a healthy level and supports the strong double-digit growth expected for fiscal 2012.
In Public Safety and Professional Communications revenue growth was excellent increasing 18% to $140 million with strong growth in both products and programs.
Operating performance for this segment was very good with operating income increasing in spite of lower revenue.
A favorable product mix cost containment and lower manufacturing costs all resulted in higher operating margin of 33.8% up from 32.5% in the prior year.
Orders for the segment totaled $629 million and book-to-bill was 1.17.
Tactical Communication orders were $534 million.
Book-to-bill was 1.34 and backlog was $717 million.
We continue to see demand for our products from all branches of the U.S.
DoD.
From the U.S.
Marine Corps we received a $64 million order for Falcon III radios and we were awarded a $49 million IDIQ contract to provide Unity Multiband Land Mobile Radios to our Marine Corps first responders.
Following the close of the quarter Harris was awarded a 5-year $400 million IDIQ contract from the U.S.
Special Forces with an initial order of $39 million for Falcon III hand-held radios with wideband networking.
We also expect an award later this fiscal year for the 4-year potential $500 million JTRS seizures next-gen IDIQ contract for Falcon III radios including handhelds with wideband networking.
Late yesterday the Joint Program Executive Office awarded Harris a $26 million IDIQ contract to provide the Soldier Radio Waveform software in-service support for the next enterprise domain.
This is a key strategic win for Harris.
The domestic 12- to 18-month opportunity pipeline remains healthy and well-funded at $1.1 billion versus $1.2 billion at the end of the second quarter.
International orders in the quarter were excellent with the largest from Australia $250 million for Phase 2 of a potential $500 million modernization program and bringing total orders to date under this program to $362 million.
Other international orders included $51 million from Iraq and $26 million from Jordan.
International opportunities continue to be strong and as of the end of the quarter the 12- to 18-month opportunity pipeline was $2.1 billion.
The Public Safety the 12- to 18-month opportunity pipeline was $3 billion.
Let me now turn to Slide 6 and discuss Innovative Network Solutions which excludes Cyber Innovative Solutions now reported as discontinued operations.
Third quarter revenue increased 8% to $500 million as a result of the acquisition of Schlumberger's Global Connectivity Services business.
On an organic basis revenue declined 1%.
Strong organic growth in CapRock and Healthcare Solutions was offset by declining revenue in IT Services and in Broadcast Communications.
Non-GAAP operating income decreased 17% year-over-year to $29 million and operating margin was 5.8%.
Strong operating improvement in CapRock was offset by weaker operating results again in healthcare and broadcast.
Organic revenue growth in Healthcare Solutions was 47% and was driven by continuing strength in the government market.
Government funding for improvements to electronic health records and interoperability remains healthy with new contract wins in the quarter totaling $100 million from the VA and the DoD.
Progress in commercial healthcare continues to be slow causing a $5 million operating loss for healthcare.
As a result it's unlikely that Healthcare Solutions will be profitable for the year.
In Broadcast Communications weaker demand in North America and longer international sales lead time led to a 14% decline in revenue to $111 million and resulted in a non-GAAP operating loss of $4 million compared to operating income in the prior year of $2 million.
In IT Services revenue declined in the quarter resulting from the loss of the Patriot program and a tough government IT spending environment.
CapRock had an excellent quarter all around.
New contract wins in the government and energy markets resulted in organic orders up 20% and organic revenue up a very strong 14%.
Non-GAAP operating income was up more than 2x.
The majority of the integration effort is nearing completion and cost reductions are showing up in the bottom line.
Also in CapRock following the close of the quarter Harris achieved a significant new win in the maritime market a 5-year contract award with Royal Caribbean to provide global communication services onboard 34 of its ships.
On April 27 our Board of Directors approved a plan for the divestiture of Broadcast and preparations to initiate a sales process are now under way.
In connection with evaluating strategic alternatives for Broadcast Communications we booked a $407 million noncash after-tax charge to write down goodwill and other long-lived assets.
Our non-GAAP results in the third quarter exclude the charge and beginning in the fourth quarter Broadcast Communications' current and prior period results will be reported as discontinued operations.
This morning we filed an 8-K providing you with pro forma historical information excluding Broadcast from our fiscal 2011 and 2012 results.
Moving to Slide 7 revenue in Government Communications increased a very strong 9% reaching $471 million.
Double-digit revenue increases in civil and national more than offset slower spending by DoD customers.
Growth drivers were diverse including classified programs where we are experiencing strong demand and good funding.
Major classified awards during the quarter included 4 awards totaling $183 million.
Other revenue drivers in the quarter included continued ramping of the GOES-R Weather program shipboard terminals for the Navy to provide broadband services and commercial satellite reflectors.
Operating income was $64 million and operating margin was 13.6%.
Our diversified program base large opportunities in the pipeline which are in focused areas such as the FAA and the strength of our classified base positions us well for the tougher government spending environment ahead.
Turning to Slide 8.
We ended the quarter with $299 million of cash on hand.
Free cash flow was strong at $152 million as compared to $79 million in the prior year.
Capital expenditures decreased $35 million to $53 million and cash flow from operations was $205 million up $37 million.
All 3 segments generated positive operating cash flow.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 32%.
Let me now move to guidance for 2012.
As shown on Slide 9 consolidated revenue excluding Cyber Integrated Solutions and Broadcast is now expected to be about $5.45 billion and non-GAAP earnings per share has been tightened to a range of $5.15 to $5.25 per diluted share.
At RF and Government Communications our guidance is unchanged.
At Integrated Network Solutions revenue is still expected to increase 9% to 11%.
Non-GAAP operating margin is now expected to be between 7.5% and 8.5%.
Nonoperating income for the year is expected to be $10 million to $12 million with $8 million occurring in the third quarter as a result of nonrecurring royalty income.
Also included in our 2012 guidance is approximately $5 million of restructuring charges planned for the fourth quarter that are anticipated to deliver $20 million to $30 million of savings in 2013 and which is included in our 2013 guidance.
We expect cash flow from operations to be about $825 million and free cash flow to be about $575 million to $585 million up over $60 million as compared to the prior year as a result of lower capital expenditures.
Our outlook for the full year non-GAAP tax rate remains at 33%.
Turning your attention to fiscal 2013 we're initiating guidance with total Harris revenue of flat to 2% higher than fiscal 2012 and EPS in the range of $5.10 to $5.30.
This does not reflect any impact from potential sequestration.
Turning to the segments.
For RF Communications fiscal 2013 revenue is expected to decline 3% to 4% from fiscal 2012 with operating margins of 30% to 31%.
Operating income is expected to decrease as a result of lower revenue and increased investment in new products and solutions partially offset by cost reductions and manufacturing efficiencies.
Lower revenue is primarily a result of the continuing wind-down of military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan and the uncertainty surrounding timing of awards from the Army's JTRS modernization program at U.S.
DoD partially offset by growth in international and public safety.
For Integrated Network Solutions we expect revenue for fiscal 2013 to be 3% to 4% higher than fiscal 2012 and operating margins between 8% and 11%.
For the Government Communications segment we expect revenue of 2% to 3% higher than fiscal 2012 and operating margin around 14%.
Corporate expenses are expected to decrease about $10 million to around $70 million for fiscal 2013 as a result of cost reductions and nonoperating income is expected to return to historical levels of $2 million to $3 million of expense.
Our full year tax rate is expected to remain at 33% in fiscal 2013 and assumes the R&amp;D tax credit will be restored in the second quarter.
We expect free cash flow to be in the range of $595 million to $665 million as a result of higher operating cash flow and lower capital expenditures.
In addition to our typical annual share repurchases of around $200 million we expect to use a portion of the proceeds from the sale of Broadcast to repurchase up to an additional $200 million of outstanding shares.
In short EPS is staying about flat with fiscal 2012.
We believe this is a good result in this environment.
The operating income decline in RF Communications and the decline in nonoperating income is expected to be offset by growth at Government Communications and Integrated Network Solutions cost reduction actions and share repurchases.
With that let me turn it back to Bill.
Okay thank you Gary.
We're focused on positioning our company for continued success in an increasingly challenging and uncertain environment.
Over the past 6 months I spent a considerable amount of time in Washington meeting with administration officials and elected representatives who are all wrestling with the trade-offs and tough choices to tackle the deficit problem we face as a nation.
How that debate plays out in an election year has significant implications for our company the defense industry and our nation as a whole.
And I don't expect much more clarity on the situation until we're well into our next fiscal year.
In that environment we'll continue to focus on the things we control aggressively addressing our cost structure and relentlessly driving productivity improving cash generation and conservatively deploying capital with a focus on rewarding shareholders through dividends and share buyback maintaining a healthy balance sheet and investing appropriately in technology innovation to improve our competitive position.
We have very strong core franchise businesses led by an outstanding team that's committed to satisfying our customers and creating shareholder value.
And on June 4 I look forward to talking to you more about our plans for next year and beyond.
And with that I'd now like to ask the operator to open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick ones.
I wondered if you might elaborate on some of the areas of strength and weakness in the quarter? It look like PSPC was awfully strong and I know Gary you highlighted a sort of big opportunity pipeline there.
I wondered if you might speak to the strength you're seeing there and at the same time speak to IT Services which looked like it was pretty weak in the quarter.
Okay Carter talking first to Public Safety and Professional Communications we do see a very strong pipeline.
There's opportunities like the San Francisco mass transit authority ahead of us opportunities in Trinidad some big opportunities that will help.
We obviously have good wins in the past from what we win in the province of Alberta and the state of Oregon so that business is very well positioned.
If you go to the IT Services business as I mentioned we did lose the Patriot program which is impacting this year pretty substantially.
I think it's down $67 million year-over-year as expected.
And then we have seen just a pretty tough IT spending environment.
It seems like the U.S.
Government is just not spending dollars where they don't need to and a lot of awards are moving to the right and so that's been pretty tough for us.
I think the good news though is we're not seeing continued weakening.
I think it's starting to look like it's bottoming out and we're feeling good about where we're ending up I guess for our guidance for the year now that these changes have occurred and where we expect it to go next year.
Research Division</strong> And one for Bill briefly.
On Broadcast I'm sort of interested if you can tell sort of why now and what you and the board were thinking with respect to when is the right timing? I mean I understand you're trying to focus on the core and your core businesses but the same time how you evaluate the appropriateness of the timing given that the business is sort of hovering around breakeven right now? Is this something -- how did you weigh the pull of fixing that business some more and potentially having some more interested buyers versus focusing on your core today? Any color there would be appreciated.
Yes Carter thank you.
It was a pretty long conversation with the board over the last 6 months but it's not a new topic with our board.
It's been discussed quite frequently over the last several years given where Broadcast happens to be and some of the charges that have been taken in the past.
And it's been an active discussion with our board on is it a fit? How do we make it better? What is the timing if we decide to exit? All those topic tend to come up quite a bit and we had a long conversation about that.
In our view given the tough environment that we're facing we think it's important for us to just focus our resources including our management time and attention on the businesses that we know to be core to our company so we can be successful into FY '13 and beyond.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Chris in for Joe this morning.
I was hoping you could give a little more color on the outlook for RF Communications.
It seems like Tactical Radios will be down.
I noticed both the domestic and international pipeline came down a little bit this quarter.
Could you just perhaps say how much of that business might be down next year and what the offset is in Public Safety? Yes the revenue for next year for RF will be down 3% to 4% as we showed on the guidance page.
The Tactical Communications business we expect to be down mid- to high single-digits.
We expect PSPC to be up high single-digits.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then -- and I know you mentioned in your guidance doesn't contemplate anything for sequestration.
Anything for a continuing resolution in the fourth quarter? As Gary went through in some detail we don't contemplate in any of the guidance or discussions today sequestration because like everybody else we don't know if how much is it going to be across the board is it going to be targeted? So we really can't comment on any hypothetical scenarios or what the impact may be to the company.
But we've done some contingency planning that we can quickly adjust our cost structure if it happens.
And one of the things that is on our mind it's a near-term concern is the potential impact on our first half given the likelihood of a continuing resolution and some uncertainty around sequestration that it may cause some of our customers to push things out of it.
We're in a situation where our fiscal year straddles sequestration.
So our first half will come into play later this year with a potential continuing resolution.
But relative to that keep in mind our content on large high-profile platforms is relatively modest.
Our products in our view are closely aligned with where the DoD has stated their priorities to be smaller more nimble more capable fighting force a network battlefield special ops all of which we have some strength in.
And also helping us as well is what we see to be some strength in the international business which as you know was a little bit more than half our Tactical Communications business.
So we are anticipating that there will be a CR that will put some pressure in the first half but I think the bigger issue is the looming sequestration.
Your next question comes from the line of Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just couple of clarifications on some of the components in the outlook.
Is it correct that the new 2012 guidance does not have any changes in segment revenue or segment operating margin other than moving Cyber and Broadcast? There's no change to any of the remaining legacy business.
Is that correct? That is correct with regards to RF and Government Communications no change at all to the forecast.
I think -- to the guidance.
I think I gave the specifics on the Integrated Network Solutions.
And if you just looked at kind of guidance where it was and guidance where we're coming out now and big picture moving Cyber into discontinued operations there was a plus up.
And then by moving Broadcast into discontinued operations and then the lower income and revenue and Integrated Network Solutions those were both down as well as the restructuring charges that we're taking in the fourth quarter.
So net-net that's kind of where we're at.
Yes specifically on the ROS on INS is also impacted by margin erosion in healthcare.
We said before it was going to be profitable.
Now it won't be and that's a key part of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
So those are all of the main components? Correct.
Research Division</strong> And then with 2013 Gary also alluded to taking the proceeds from the sale of Broadcast and buying back stock.
Does the 2013 EPS guidance specifically estimate what you'll get for Broadcast and then translate that into repurchasing shares and a lower share count? Or would use of proceeds from Broadcast be upside to this initial fiscal '13 guidance? What we have done is assumed that a transaction takes place at the end of this calendar year so mid our fiscal year and $200 million whatever the proceeds happen to be will be used to deploy into share buyback in the third quarter of next year.
And that's what we've assumed.
As Gary mentioned we've just initiated a process to launch a sale but we're just getting started.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just one more for you Bill now that you've had a few more months to sort of get your arms around the business I wonder what your view is on when the bleeding stops at RF? How many more quarters or years until that business can go back to top line growth and stop having margin compression? And perhaps if you could within that comment on what you think the right long-term margin we should all be thinking about is in that business? Well what we're going to do today is provide you an outlook for '12 and where we're at in '13.
Anything beyond that I think is going to come to a conversation later on in June.
But I think I may take exception and correct you on the bleeding.
It's been certainly one of the most successful franchises we own.
It's doing extremely well.
It's a global market leader a leader in the U.S.
with exceptionally strong margin.
It's a fantastic team outstanding technology.
And in fact one of the things that we're doing in the guidance in FY '13 with margins coming down is investing in R&amp;D to grow the business over time.
So I wouldn't say it's a bleeding business.
I would say it's actually an extremely successful one.
Research Division</strong> No I don't disagree.
But I think the stock's multiple in a lot of ways reflects how difficult it is to forecast what the long-term growth rates and margins are going to be in that business.
So any color you could give there if it's today or if it's when you guys get us all together in June I think would be super-helpful to investors.
We understand and we'll provide more in early June.
But as we see -- going into next year we do see not unexpectedly some softness in U.S.
DoD tactical radios and we have anticipated that.
But fortunately we're seeing some strength in the international arena.
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Valera with Needham &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Gary I was wondering if you could tell us how much nonoperating income you have baked into fiscal '12 from either a dollar or cents per share and if there's any of that baked into fiscal '13? Yes in '12 it's $10 million to $12 million is the range that we're giving.
And for FY '13 it's actually $2 million to $3 million of expense which is returning to kind of our historical levels.
This year we benefited from some royalty income kind of one-off patent sales.
We don't plan for those.
We do have a team that works on that and they come in kind of intermittently.
So this year definitely $10 million to $12 million.
Next year an expense of $2 million to $3 million is what's in our guidance.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
I just wanted to clarify.
The expense reductions you're taking in the next quarter those are expected to save $20 million to $30 million in fiscal '13? Is that correct? That is correct and that is based into the guidance.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
And then finally just with respect to IT Services.
Gary in your prepared remarks it sounded like you feel like that business is bottoming after apparently some weakness I guess throughout this year.
I'm just wondering what you're assuming for fiscal '13.
Are we looking at that as sort of a flattish business now? Or do you see that going down more or in fact returning to growth at some point? Right now we're looking at it more as flattish to up not flat to down but not seeing strong growth.
So that's kind of what's baked into our guidance based on the environment we're seeing.
Your next question comes from the line of Pete Skibitski with Drexel Hamilton.
Bill I don't know if we should wait until June for this but I thought I'd see if I could ask you one more time.
Do you think you're done at this point with the portfolio reshaping? I think you've certainly sort of made your mark on the company so far in terms of strategy and reshaping things.
Would you say you're done at this point? Or is there more to go? We don't see any other portfolio reshaping at this point in time.
Okay got it.
And I just want to ask you within RF you gave us a sense on fiscal '13 in terms of Public Safety versus Military.
Is it safe to assume that international Military revenue within RF for fiscal '13 will be up or no? Yes we expect within Tactical Communications that international will be up mid-single-digits.
Got it.
And then last question can you give us a sense of how much you expect RF R&amp;D to be up in fiscal '13? I think we're going to come back to that in early June because we can give you a little bit more sense not just in what's happening with the investment but more importantly what we're spending it on and why we think it's important.
But I would say if you look on page that shows the margins we're going this year from about 33% to about 30% to 31% next year and half of that decline is relative to gross margin.
Part of it is just mix between PSPC and the tactical business.
Part of it is price.
Part of it is volume.
The other piece of -- the other half of the margin erosion comes from investments we're making principally in R&amp;D.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lewis with Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> So I have to applaud you on this broadband -- or I'm sorry this Broadcast divestiture.
It just never made sense to me but I'll move on.
Gary the after-tax loss from Cyber was about $100 million.
I think the expectation when you announced it was $70 million to $80 million.
What's the delta there and was there -- why was it higher? There was some additional software that we decided to throw into the mix and then we also had some lower prices on the building than what we expected.
Those are the really the 2 main components and the number we did give you does include the losses from the business as well.
So if you took the $100 million I think you get down to what we said the $70 million to $80 million.
We're still in the kind of high-80s of where we're coming out on the building and some additional software and stuff we threw in and then the rest of it is the losses just from the business.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then you brought up Patriot.
And that was a tough loss.
Have you done the math? If you backed out Patriot program what would the IT business look like on a year-over-year basis pulling that out? Have you done that math? I haven't done the math specifically.
But as I said on the call the business overall was down about $67 million from Patriot.
I don't have right in front of me last year and where we're at but it has declined some.
In the quarter it was almost all Patriot.
And rather than just guessing it let me do the math and get back to you.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
And then one final question.
You're embedding the R&amp;D tax credit into your expectation which somewhat varies with some of your peers.
What would the tax be if the R&amp;D did not hit? About 1% higher about 0.8% to be precise on the math.
So it's in that 1% higher range if we do not get the R&amp;D investment tax credit next year.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Jordan with Noble Financial.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My question is related to acquisitions.
Historically they've been used to build segments gain scale and focus for the company.
Kind of seemingly the 3 remaining groups have that scale and are focused.
Does this mean that in the coming years or coming couple of years that there may be a greater emphasis on buybacks and dividends rather than acquisitions? Or do you still see more opportunity to build scale? I don't think I would necessarily conclude that.
I think for the near term we don't see a lot of M&amp;A activity happening at Harris.
Frankly we've got our plate a little bit full right now with what we're doing with Cyber and with Broadcast and just with the overall environment and me understanding and resetting the strategy.
But M&amp;A will clearly play a role in our long-term strategy at the company and I expect we'll get back to that.
And there will be some balance between share buyback and M&amp;A.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay a follow-up Gary.
Historically you've kind of looked at capital deployment over a 3-year timeframe.
Do you have thoughts relative to what you see from a deployment standpoint for the fiscal '13 to '15 period which will be the next 3 years? I think I'll probably reserve some of that for again our Investor Day in June but we did give some guidance when we raised our dividend that we're now targeting a 25% payout ratio so that kind of brackets where we've been on dividends.
And we've been actively over the last several years in the market buying back a couple of hundred million dollars of our stock I talked about this year.
That's kind of our normal practice again for '13.
That's our expectation and then we'll use some of the proceeds from broadcast to add to that.
So I think that 25% payout ratio and around a couple of hundred million a year is at least our current thinking.
Your next question comes from the line of Yair Reiner with Oppenheimer &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> So first I want to make sure I understand the guidance.
It looks like you gained about $0.13 through the first 9 months of the year by shifting the Broadcast and Cyber losses off to discontinued ops.
So by keeping your nominal EPS target unchanged it looks like you've actually lowered kind of the base-case guidance by about $0.15 on a full year basis.
Am I looking at that the right way? It's very close yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the cash from divesting the Broadcast business and exiting Cyber you said around $200 million for Broadcast may be towards the third quarter next year.
Is that what you expect to make in total? Or is that kind of a conservative estimate? And then where should we see kind of the money coming in from getting out of Cyber and selling those assets? What we said was we would use $200 million from whatever the proceeds were for divesting Broadcast to buy back shares.
Our assumption is that the transaction closes at the end of this calendar year so we use that proceeds of $200 million in Q3 FY '13.
We fully expect that the proceeds will be substantially higher than that $200 million.
[indiscernible] Research Division</strong> Are you ready to give us some kind of range for that? No.
Like I said we've truly have just initiated the internal process of the launch of sale so we're not even close.
Now you mentioned about Cyber.
We do expect that to conclude towards the end of this fiscal year or into early FY '13 and that will be incorporated into our cash flow guidance.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And any kind of sense of what those assets are worth? Or is that also TBD? I think TBD.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just one other quick one.
On the guidance for 2013 your profit margin for INS is quite broad 8% to 11%.
Can you give us a sense of what are the factors that potentially take you to the higher end or low end of that guidance? Maybe I'll start with that and Gary and pass it to you.
Clearly we do have expectations for continuing growth and margin expansion in CapRock which is benefiting from very very solid integration work over the last year.
And we do expect to drive the healthcare business from a loss to profitability in FY '13.
And I'd say those are the 2 biggest factors that would drive it.
I don't know if you want to...
No I think you hit the 2 main ones Bill.
And as I said IT Services pretty flattish on the revenue side and the margins won't change dramatically.
Your next question comes from the line of Gautam Khanna with Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Like could you talk about what specifically you're going to get that payback on the restructuring? The charge we're taking in Q4 is about $5 million and it's for -- obviously it's just a charge for the employment reduction.
But when I add in employment employees plus contractors we're anticipating a reduction across the company of about 2% of our total population of contractors and employees and it's -- I'm not going to talk about the specifics about where that's going to be but that's what drives the very substantial payback in FY '13.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Anything -- you characterized the RF tactical pipeline as still being pretty elevated.
I guess when we look back the bookings quarter-to-quarter have been pretty choppy this quarter being an exception to the upside.
But could you characterize kind of what you see in the near term with respect to order potential? Are there any large ones that are close at hand? How should we be thinking about kind of book-to-bill in the June and September quarters so that we're potentially protected at the sequester? I mean maybe I'll start and maybe toss it to Gary.
I think on a year-to-date basis our book-to-bill is just less -- it's a little less than 1 it's about 0.96.
And we've had a very nice Q3 very strong international orders.
Of course we don't and we won't today provide any sort of guidance around orders or when they're going to happen or project a year-end backlog.
But so far year-to-date and on an LTM basis as well the book-to-bill has been relatively good.
I don't know if Gary you want to...
No I think you've covered it again Bill.
I mean we have had -- we won a great IDIQ contract with the Special Forces.
We see another one coming up with the JPO office on seizures and we did some initial orders.
I would still expect that as in the past our orders are pretty lumpy from one quarter to the next and won't necessarily change.
So some quarters we're up as this one.
Last quarter we were down some overall.
As Bill said year-to-date 0.96 book-to-bill.
And we're just not going to get into the pattern of trying to predict where that's going to be.
LLC Research Division</strong> Are there any lumpy large ones out there on the international front that you can point to? There's good opportunities again in the countries that we've talked about and they're hard to predict timing.
But you've got the country in Central Asia.
You've got Iraq.
You've got a country in Northern Africa.
You've now got Australia that we're into Phase 2 and other phases will come.
We mentioned Brazil as having opportunity.
And so it's hard to predict whether they'll do that in steps or sometimes you get a big award.
And so I'll just leave it at that.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Quilty with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question with regard to the broadcast divestiture.
If you're unable to receive what you consider to be a fair bid for that business would you consider spinning it off to investors in the same way that the microwave business was divested some years ago? We're going to -- I'm going to defer that to later in the year when we actually start the process and start seeing what the activity happens to be.
I don't think I would comment on any structure.
Our intention today is to divest the business in a sale with cash returning to the company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And if you were to look today at your business portfolio is -- which area would rise to the top as the one where you would most likely invest? Again I'm going to push that to a later conversation.
I don't think I want to speculate today on where across the portfolio we're going to invest cash proceeds or cash in terms of an M&amp;A perspective.
Clearly I did reference the increasing investment we'll see in R&amp;D next year in our RF business both in Tactical Communications as well as PSPC.
We'll also see a little more R&amp;D spending internal Iraq [ph] spending at our Government Communications business as we invest in developing products and innovation for future growth.
But that's really the things we're going to focus internally.
We're clearly getting back to what are the businesses at our core and making sure they're fully funded and are successful.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and if I can the -- on the Tactical Radio business correct me if I'm wrong but the MWDR [ph]  contract is currently the sort of the biggest opportunity sitting out there with the U.S.
Government.
Can you give us a rundown of where you stand in terms of certifications for that program both in terms of Rifleman Radio waveforms and encryption relative to the competitive field and when you expect a likely contract award for that particular contract? Chris it's Dan.
The procurement's been delayed about 3 months right now that's kind of where we're at out of the contracting shop.
But quite frankly for competitive reasons we're not going to talk about what certifications and other things that we're going to do in that radio channel 2 channels how it's going to be configured.
Clearly it's something we're very much focused on with our RF team.
But from a competitive perspective we're not going to talk about it.
We did get [indiscernible] certification for SRW.
And as you've seen from the JPO we're very happy with the software contract but we're moving along our path with all waveform just like we have but we're not going to get in the business specifically especially on these very competitive [indiscernible].
Your next question comes from the line of Josephine Millward with Benchmark.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you talk about funding sources for the U.S.
Tactical Radio market going forward in particular on the $400 million SOCOM and the $500 million seizures IDIQ contracts? In the past they were primarily funded by the supplemental.
So how do you get visibility going forward in this environment? We're feeling pretty good Josephine about the visibility on the funding.
Basically about 80% of the revenue that we're forecasting for FY '13 U.S.
DoD is already either funded from backlog or in the GY government budget of '12 so leaving only 20% of the funding to come from FY '13 appropriations.
So overall it doesn't come from any particular one line item.
Some of them are easy to identify but we've sat down with our RF team and gone through every line item of where that revenue is expected to come from.
And as I said 80% of it of what we're expecting next year is already funded.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
Can you provide a more detailed breakdown of your assumptions for your guidance for Integrated Network Solutions? What's the growth rate assumptions for CapRock and healthcare next year? I don't think we're going to give today any more granularity on INS or GCS.
I did provide I think quite a bit of insight into our thinking on the RF business for obvious reasons.
But I think I'm going to push out into early June any further conversation on guidance on INS.
Your last question comes from the line of Pete Skibitski with Drexel Hamilton.
Yes just a follow-up.
On the healthcare IT margins guys I'm just wondering why the loss in the quarter? And maybe Bill if you have kind of a target margin rate for that business? Well I think the issue in the quarter is what we've seen over the last 6 to 9 months is in the commercial -- first of all the government healthcare side of our business is performing very very well and we're thrilled with that.
We're executing well.
We're winning new contracts and we're feeling very very good about that.
And if you can recall in the last earnings release I talked about our ability to sort port some of those capabilities from the government side into commercial.
Last year we bought a company called Carefx.
Clearly in the commercial side the market is still evolving.
Needs of customers aren't entirely well-defined which sometimes requires a higher-cost customization of the software and that's what we're seeing now in some of the losses that are occurring.
But we see ourselves evolving the product.
We think costs will come down.
We think conversion rate of opportunities to orders should improve and we expect that business to be profitable in next year.
So I think that's the direction we'd give today.
Thank you everyone for joining us and we hope you join us for our June 4 Analyst Meeting in New York City.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2012 Harris Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Janeda and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Pamela Padgett Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2012 Earnings Call.
I'm Pamela Padgett and on the call with me today is Bill Brown President and CEO; Gary MacArthur Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Dan Pearson Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Before we get started a few words on forward-looking statements.
In the course of this teleconference management may make forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements involve assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those statements.
For more information and a discussion of such assumptions risks and uncertainties please see the press release and filings made by Harris with the SEC.
In addition in our press release and on this teleconference and the related presentation we will discuss certain financial measures and information that are non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to the comparable GAAP measures is included in tables of the press release and on the Investor Relations section of our website which is www.harris.com.
A replay of this call will also be available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
And with that Bill I'll turn it over to you.
Okay.
Well thank you Pam.
And welcome to our Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2012 Earnings Call.
I'll begin today's call by turning to Slides 3 and 4 in the presentation.
Harris fourth quarter results represented a solid finish to fiscal 2012.
Revenue was $1.4 billion.
Non-GAAP income was $162 million and increased 4% over the prior year even though revenue declined by 6%.
Operating income was higher in all 3 segments as a result of our productivity and cost-reduction initiatives.
Non-GAAP EPS of $1.42 was up a strong 15% compared to $1.24 in the prior year reflecting higher operating income and share repurchases.
In addition cash flow was particularly strong in the quarter and resulted in record free cash flow for the year.
Our new wins and orders in the quarter were encouraging as we enter fiscal 2013.
Total orders in the quarter were higher than revenue and increased in all 3 segments.
Although total revenue declined as expected due to lower revenue in Tactical Communications and IT Services we are gaining traction in each of our growth initiatives.
Public Safety and Professional Communications continued along its strong growth trajectory and was up 12% in the quarter.
In CapRock demand was strong for satellite communications solutions with revenue up 8% and orders up solidly double-digit over the prior year and also significantly higher than revenue.
In Healthcare Solutions revenue increased 69% off of a relatively small base driven by excellent momentum in government healthcare where funding remains solid.
In Tactical Communications we're managing through a transition in the U.S.
DoD market from one previously driven by OPTEMPO to a modernization cycle driven by wideband technology where we're the clear leader and where we continue to win on innovation and affordability.
In government communications continuing strong execution is generating solid operating margins with sales to the classified community and civil customers like the FAA offsetting weaker DoD customer spending.
For the full fiscal year 2012 orders were $5.48 billion up 8% and revenue was $5.45 billion up 1% over the prior year.
Although non-GAAP income from continuing operations was down 5% non-GAAP earnings per share increased 4% to $5.20.
Overall company results for the fourth quarter and full year demonstrate that our strategy for creating value in a tough government spending environment is working successfully execute in our core businesses and in our growth initiatives drive operational excellence to lower costs across the company generate higher free cash flow and return capital to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
I'll turn it over to Gary to comment on segment results and guidance outlook and then I'll come back with a few comments before we open the call to questions.
Thank you Bill.
And good morning.
Moving to segment results on Slide 5.
Revenue for RF Communications was $584 million compared to $628 million in the prior year.
Tactical Communications revenue was $409 million declining 13%.
In Public Safety and Professional Communications revenue growth was excellent increasing 12% to $175 million.
Operating performance for the segment was very good with operating income increasing in spite of lower revenue.
Lower manufacturing costs and operating expenses resulted in a higher operating margin of 33.5% up from 30.4% in the prior year.
Orders for the segment totaled $529 million and book-to-bill was 0.91.
In Tactical Communications orders were $356 million backlog was $665 million and book-to-bill was 0.87.
During the quarter Harris was awarded a 5-year $400 million IDIQ contract from the U.S.
Special Forces Operations Command and received 3 orders under that contract totaling $120 million for Falcon III wideband networking radios.
Harris was also awarded a 5-year $26 million IDIQ contract with the JTRS JPEO to maintain and enhance the JTRS Soldier Radio Waveform the SRW software which resides in the JTRS library and was originally developed by the program of record.
This award highlights our company's unparalleled engineering expertise in developing and fielding robust waveforms.
The domestic 12- to 18-month opportunity pipeline remains healthy and well-funded at $1.1 billion.
International orders in the quarter included $31 million from the Kingdom of Jordan for Falcon II and Falcon III radios for the next phase of their C4ISR system supporting domestic and international security missions bringing orders to date for the modernization to $57 million.
The opportunity could now reach over $150 million.
International opportunities continue to be strong and as of the end of the quarter the 12- to 18-month opportunity pipeline remained at $2.1 billion.
In Public Safety awards included a contract with a potential value of $109 million with a $32 million initial order from the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Authority to deploy a communications network that will increase operational efficiencies improve safety and provide interoperability with public safety agencies.
San Francisco MTA will be one of the largest transit LMR systems in the country and is a key win for Harris in the growing transportation segment a target market for Harris.
The 12- to 18-month opportunity pipeline for public safety stands at a healthy $2.9 billion.
Turning now to Slide 6 in Integrated Network Solutions.
Fourth quarter revenue decreased 10% to $379 million.
Strong growth in Healthcare Solutions and CapRock was more than offset by declining revenue in IT Services.
Non-GAAP operating income was $34 million essentially flat with $33 million in the prior year as continuing strong improvement in CapRock was offset by operating income decline in IT Services.
Operating margin improved from 7.9% in the prior year to 9%.
In Healthcare Solutions revenue increased 69% driven by government wins primarily under 2 IDIQ contracts known as T4 and EVEAH which were awarded late last fiscal year by the VA to upgrade and streamline operations.
For the year Healthcare Solutions revenue increased substantially to just under $200 million.
The commercial side of the healthcare business is still very much a work in progress contributing to a $5 million non-GAAP loss in the quarter for Healthcare Solutions.
Significant integration actions were taken during the quarter to bring expense levels in line with anticipated revenue and we continue to expect Healthcare Solutions to be profitable in fiscal 2013.
In IT Services revenue declined from 2 programs the Patriot program roll off and the completion of systems and network integration for the Army Materiel Command headquarters driving most of the $82 million decline in year-over-year revenue.
CapRock had another excellent quarter in orders revenue and op income ending the fiscal year with good momentum.
As Bill mentioned revenue increased 8% and orders were significantly higher than revenue.
Integration has progressed well driving improved operating performance with CapRock achieving double-digit operating margin.
During the quarter CapRock was awarded significant new wins in the growing maritime market including a 5-year contract with Royal Caribbean and a 5-year contract with a customer in the Asia Pacific region covering up to 2 000 commercial vessels.
Moving to Slide 7.
Revenue in government communications was $497 million as expected about flat with the prior year.
Year-over-year revenue increases from the GOES-R weather program NASA's Space Network Ground Sustainment program and classified programs were offset by lower revenue from defense customers.
Operating income was $66 million compared with $63 million in the prior year.
Operating margins increased from 12.7% to 13.3%.
Harris was awarded a significant new win in the commercial space area a 5-year contract to supply 81 ADS-B receiver payloads to be hosted on the Iridium NEXT constellation.
We believe that the market for commercially hosted payloads over the next 5 years could potentially be $250 million.
And this recent win will be the largest implementation to date.
Let me now talk about the financial highlights and guidance.
Turning to Slide 8 fiscal 2012 was another solid financial year for Harris.
Operating cash flow in the quarter was $370 million compared to $276 million in the prior year.
Free cash flow in the quarter was also strong at $311 million more than double the $147 million in the prior year.
For the fiscal year operating cash flow was excellent at $853 million and free cash flow at $619 million a record for Harris was much higher than $508 million in the prior year.
All 3 segments generated positive operating cash flow and free cash flow for the quarter and the year.
Capital expenditures were $59 million for the quarter and $234 million for the year.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 33.9% and for the year it was 33.1%.
Moving to Slide 9.
Fiscal 2013 guidance is unchanged with total Harris revenues still expected to be flat to 2% higher than fiscal 2012 and EPS in the range of $5.10 to $5.30.
As we mentioned in June at our Investor Day we expect the first quarter to be weaker as compared to the prior year first quarter due to lower sales and income in Tactical Communications and IT Services.
We still expect the rest of the year to be in line with or higher than the prior year.
Guidance does not reflect any potential impact from sequestration.
In the segments guidance for RF Communications and government communications is unchanged.
In Integrated Network Solutions we expect fiscal 2013 revenue to be 4% to 5% higher compared with the prior year versus the 3% to 4% previously expected and operating margins still in the range of 8% to 11%.
We continue to expect the full year tax rate to remain at 33% in fiscal 2013 and free cash flow in a range of $595 million to $665 million the components of which are set forth on the slide.
With that let me turn it back to Bill.
Thank you Gary.
Our outlook for fiscal 2013 reflects what we believe will be another solid year in a challenging environment.
We believe that the technology and innovation we bring to the marketplace are well aligned with our customers' spending priorities.
Communications and ISR capabilities that we provide will allow the government to do more with less and we provide those capabilities in more affordable solutions than our competitors.
We are being smart about reducing costs and improving productivity so that we can continue to invest in R&amp;D and the long-term success of our businesses while at the same time driving value for shareholders by generating solid earnings and cash flow.
And now we'd like to ask the operator to open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just I wanted to ask a question about the budget the backdrop sequestration whether or not the guidance contemplates a CR and just in general Bill how you're feeling about the relative risks around sequestration in the various business units areas where you think there could be an impact there based on different contract structures things that are incrementally funded.
Any color you can provide on how you're planning and thinking about that outcome should we actually see it would be helpful.
Sure.
Well first of all as Gary mentioned we do not contemplate sequestration in the guidance that we have given but I think and that we all believe that a CR is a virtual certainty much like it was last year.
And that's going to provide in our fiscal second quarter some choppiness I'd say based on where our customers will end up deciding to shift some funding and what happens as we enter the start of GFY '13 under a continuing resolution.
We're looking at a variety of scenarios in our business much like everybody else's across-the-board 10% sort of bottoms-up programmatic type reductions.
But based on little to no feedback from our customers on what they see happening and guidance from them as to what we should be contemplating it's really a little bit premature for us to give us -- to give any sort of sense or guidance as to the impact of that going into fiscal year '13 or our fiscal year '13.
That being said we're not a big-platform player Carter as you know very very well.
We see the things that we do very much aligned with the DoD priorities of special operations C4ISR solutions.
And so we feel versus – and relative to other players in the aerial defense industry that we're going to be less impacted though certainly not un-impacted by a sequestration.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> My question is on INS and sort of on all the things going on there.
Could you guys comment on -- it looked to me like your charges in there your non-GAAP adjustments were a lot higher than what you had suggested it would be last quarter for the year.
So can you talk about what's going in there and what the outlook is there for those adjustments for FY '13? Also any update on the broadcast divestiture? Okay good.
Thank you Joe.
Well first off you're exactly right.
Last time we spoke in the last call we gave some guidance around $0.25 a share as the integration expenses for integrating both Carefx as well as the suite of companies that we now call CapRock so it's CapRock Schlumberger Core180.
And in the reported results it was $0.40 so it was $0.15 more.
That's going from about $42 million to $58 million or $60 million higher in the fourth quarter than we would've indicated at the end of the third quarter and that is investment in integration of both the CapRock franchise and Carefx a little bit more on Carefx than on CapRock.
We saw some additional opportunities.
We've seen our profitability in the healthcare franchise not be what it is or what we think it could be or should be and we took some tougher actions in the quarter to drive profitability and achieve our targets longer term.
I recall in -- back in early June when we talked about -- at our Investor Day we talked very -- about very significant improvements in FY '13: 400 basis points of margin improvement in CapRock driving healthcare from a deep loss to profitability in '13.
And we're thinking we -- we think we've taken the actions we need to take to position ourselves for success in '13 and beyond.
As you know any further charges won't be absorbed below the line.
It will be directly in our reported GAAP income and -- but we think a lot of the activities a lot of the costs are now behind us.
Going into BCD we've just initiated the process.
We're out in the marketplace with offering materials.
The response so far has been very very good.
We expect bids in the next few weeks and we'll expect to conclude a transaction by the end of the year as -- end of the calendar year as we’ve said last time and we're on track for that.
Research Division</strong> Are you ready to give any further color on what the proceeds might be or is it still too early? It still very very early Joe.
And I think more than likely we'll wait until we actually get a deal done in order to give some color to investors around proceeds.
Your next question comes from the line of Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can you walk us through the small increase in the growth rate expectation for next year at INS? And in doing so can you just touch on the degree of confidence you have that you've captured all the risks in the IT Services component where you cited some downward pressure in the quarter and we're seeing similar trends really across the contracting community? Yes.
I mean first we went from what was 3% to 4% growth in INS next year to about 4% to 5% so it's about 1 point improvement.
And the reality Noah came more from a reduction in our actual fiscal '12 revenue as opposed to sort of increase in revenue in fiscal '13.
We held our revenue in '13 because we were confident that we can achieve those numbers going into next year.
So that's what really drove it up by that 1 percentage point which in context is about $15 million so it's not that material.
In fiscal year '12 as you know we saw CapRock and Healthcare Solutions well more than offset the reduction -- the decline in IT Services.
We see -- going into '13 we expect very solid growth in both CapRock as well as in Healthcare Solutions at or more than market growth rates and we laid that out in our Investor Meeting early in June.
And we do expect that that is going to more than offset a flat to down IT Services market.
Clearly the environment on IT Services today is pretty tough.
And we do see the roll off of the Patriot laws that happened early in 2011 -- or late in fiscal 2011 and that's going to continue to roll off with the first and second quarter of fiscal '13 so -- but if you remember we took our margin guidance down on IT Services in early June by about 200 basis points.
So it's not a very profitable business so big moves in IT Services up or down won't affect our overall profitability in -- at Harris that much.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then at RF Bill you talked about in the Tactical Communications side the transition from an OPTEMPO-funded environment to a modernization-cycle-funded environment.
How are you comfortable that the small revenue decline you're guiding to next year captures the risks associated with that transition where presumably the customer is moving from "Give it to me now as fast as humanly possible under any circumstance " to maybe being able to be more patient with the pace at which they procure and particularly so given the pressure on the overall funding environment.
Maybe I'll say a couple of words and then ask Gary to jump in on this.
Just in terms of our confidence on U.S.
DoD tactical going into next year we see today about 70% to 75% of the revenue that we're projecting in FY '13 is either in backlog or has been appropriated in GFY '12 or prior budgets a little less than what we had thought before it was about 80% because we did a little bit better in Q4 in that particular business.
So that's a little bit softer going into next year.
Typically we see 80% to 90% of our backlog at the end of the year convert in the following year at about 55% to 60% of new orders convert within a year.
It's a little bit different going into next year.
Pretty much it's going to be consistent with FY '12.
We see a little less backlog conversion -- a little more expectation of conversion from new orders over the course of '13.
So a little more order and ship relatively quickly going into GFY -- into our fiscal year '13 than I think we've seen historically.
I don’t know Gary if you want to offer comment? Yes.
I'll just go to the kind of high-level things Noah that are helping us giving us more comfort.
Obviously we're very early in the transition from -- moving from narrowband to wideband networking capabilities.
We're looking at a commitment from the army to open and competitive procurement which we think bids well for us as well as -- SOCOM is going to have increasing importance and we're very competitively strong there.
So that's all the points Bill mentioned.
And if you look at the macro trends of what's going on with this movement to modernization I think it gives us comfort that we've got it pegged about right.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I'm just going to sneak in one more quick one.
The healthcare move to profitability next year what's the quarterly cadence of that through 2013? I don't think we're going to provide any sort of quarterly guidance on healthcare.
But if you run the numbers from FY '12 we had a pretty deep operating loss in that segment and we will drive it to profitability over the course of next year.
Research Division</strong> But losing -- presumably still losing money in the first half before making money in the second generally as a trend line versus kind of flat lining through the year? Again I'm not sure we're going to provide -- in fact I know we're not going to provide quarterly guidance.
But that would not be an unfair assumption.
But Noah it'll be profitable in FY '13.
Your next question comes from the line of Pete Skibitski with Drexel Hamilton.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the tactical radios.
Can you tell us Bill how much domestic was down for the year and then how much international was up and then maybe your expectations for those in fiscal '13? Okay.
Just really going into fiscal '13 we see the Tactical Communications business being down mid- to high-single digits pretty much in line with what we had said before early in June and I think at the last call as well.
What that means is the U.S.
DoD will be down in the mid to high teens with international being up mid-single digits.
Gary you want to maybe just say a word on '12 and the actuals in '12? The actuals in '12 with regards to where we come out was I think on the revenue line we ended up being around 51% coming from U.S.
DoD 49% of revenue coming from international.
Orders were higher international than domestic.
And then in '13 we do expect that orders will be -- orders and revenue will both be higher than -- in international than in domestic.
I think that's about as much color as we want to give on '12 on the international and the tactical U.S.
DoD side.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Are you guys factoring in any kind of wins on some of these competitions like MNVR and some of the other ones that are out there? Well so far we've won the GMR MNVR requirement for Capability Set 13 and that was won at the early part of fiscal '12.
And -- but the MNVR RFP still isn't out.
It's coming out in August.
We'll have a solution we'll bid for it and we think we're going to be very very competitive.
Your next question comes from the line of Yair Reiner with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> As I recall some of the turnaround that you expect in healthcare next year hinges on pretty important software update.
I was wondering if you can update us on how that's going.
Well there's really a couple of things that are going to drive the improvement in healthcare going into next year.
Part of it is just the savings that we're going to reap from some of the restructuring actions we've taken at the back end of fiscal '12 but there's -- beyond that strategically there's 2 things.
One is there is going to be product upgrades as well as important developments in the channel.
On the product side what we said last time is very much consistent today.
Is that the market is still evolving the needs of our customers are still evolving with that and that's requiring us to do a bit more customization in our software product when we deliver to the customers which is why we're losing money in that particular segment.
Going forward we're developing a software platform that is going to be a whole lot easier to customize or -- for a given customer situation so we won't see that level of customization in the future and that's progressing very very well.
And we're doing well rebuilding the indirect channel that we have in that particular business.
So we're confident that we've got the right plan the right people working on the initiatives to drive healthcare to profitability next year.
Research Division</strong> Good.
And then just one more if I could.
We discussed sequestration earlier with respect to the DoD.
I think most of us are pretty familiar with the dynamics potentially at work there.
Can you talk about how your non-DoD business may be exposed to sequestration and how can we think about some of the potential risks there.
Yes it's Dan.
It would be about the same.
Again all our customers are having the same degree of angst about what it is what's the 10% cut.
Clearly we believe -- in some of our areas if the guidance from OMB gives them some flexibility we think some of the FAA work we do in the GOES-R work will be fairly well protected because it’s so mission critical.
But in general our customers similar to the DoD are still doing a lot of scenario planning waiting to see what the guidance will come out and how it will play out from the government so it's not much different.
Research Division</strong> In terms of worst case though we should think of your -- the rest of your government business also potentially looking at a 10% to 12% cut or so? Well I think -- and again that's where the decision will come out from OMB how they'll implement it.
If they do a 10% to 12% across-the-board cut it could be that we're -- bad if they go program by program.
We don't personally think they'll do that but again my Ouija board is no better than anybody else's at this point.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lewis with Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a question about the recompete of NMCI the next -- the NGEN program.
I think it is your largest recompete.
You do say that the sub [ph] from what I understand.
And can we just get an update on the potential size and timing of this award? Well on NMCI we are the incumbent so the slow environment in IT Services as a whole works in our favor because it just extends out the contract that we happen to have and it sort of preserves our earnings going into fiscal year '13.
The RFP for the recompete was received in May.
As you know it's called NGEN.
But the submittal time frame was delayed very recently by about 3 weeks to early August so as we see it it's pretty likely that there is going to be an award on NGEN much before March of 2013.
So it's -- really we don't see this NMCI recompete to have much in fact any impact on our fiscal '13 numbers.
We think we're in a very strong competitive position in the things that we're bidding and we feel very confident that we'll come out on top in NGEN.
In terms of the size Dan do you want to comment on potential size of the deal? I think it's going to be a little bit bigger than we've seen so far in NMCI.
It's fluctuating around let me just clarify a little bit.
As Bill said we are the current provider the transport section for the NMCI program HP EDS being the "prime." So there's 2 pieces right transport and enterprise.
We have formed a team and we're priming the transport piece it will be hundreds of millions of dollars over a multiple-year period.
And we're on the CSC team for enterprise.
So again from the perspective of what it would mean from us from a revenue perspective it's about the same as it will be for NMCI to NGEN maybe a little bit bigger but it -- again that's moving up and down.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And actually the longer it pushes out price the better for you.
One more quick question: Year-over-year growth in classified programs in GCS can you rest [ph] on what that percentage was? I don't think we give detail down below GCS but I would say that the early part of the year was quite strong and we ended pretty strong on the segment which we call national intelligence which is primarily classified program.
So overall a pretty strong year and we expect to continue the strong year in 2013.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Jordan with Noble Financial.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question relative to the 2 IDIQs for development work under the JTRS program.
Is it -- are you the only one doing that development work? And are you in essence doing the work that was previously doled out by the program of record office? Are you talking about GMR Mark the GMR program? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes well the 2 that were referenced here the $26 million and the Soldier Waveform software development.
Oh I see.
Yes.
SR -- for SRW we are the integration contractor and the sole contractor for that right now...
That was originally developed by the JTRS program and they've now turned that over to us.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Finally could you update us on the status of the buyback activity? Sure.
This is Gary.
In the quarter we repurchased around 600 000 shares for roughly $25 million at an average per share price of $41.43.
That brings the total share buyback to the year of 12.2 million shares spending roughly $467 million at an average share price of $38.14.
So in total for the year we reduced our outstanding share count as of what was outstanding as of the beginning of the year by about 9.9%.
Your next question comes from the line of Josephine Millward with Benchmark Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you give us a number for your total funded backlog? And since you saw nice orders growth can you give us more color on where you saw strength and how you see that translating into fiscal year '13? I'm just looking at Pam.
The -- we provide that in our 10-Ks so I guess it's not an issue for -- with regards to providing the total funded backlog Pam? Well the one that we normally talk about is our RF backlog which...
LLC Research Division</strong> But it's in the K I can look it up.
That's fine.
I'm just looking for more of a breakdown by segment.
Perhaps you can talk about the major international RF opportunities that you're expecting to drive growth in the coming year? Well okay.
I mean maybe I'll start with that while Gary and Pam are looking at -- looking for the funded backlog numbers.
Just on the international Tactical Communications we're coming off of a very very strong fiscal 2012 with both revenues and orders growth being very strong for us.
In fact the revenues in Tactical Communications international achieved a record level in fiscal year '12 and both grew -- both revenues and orders grew solidly double digit year-over-year.
So we're coming off of a very strong international tactical year that we had.
We're very well positioned competitively.
We're investing in lots of new products and capabilities to continue to grow the addressable market that we happen to have.
We've got a very healthy pipeline as Gary went through in his prepared remarks.
The opportunities though will likely come in the tens of millions not hundreds of millions like we saw with Australia this past fiscal year that was unusually large.
As we always say the timing of these orders are very hard to predict.
It's very very lumpy.
But we feel good about the pipeline.
We see the political climate in Pakistan a lot better today than I would have said 6 months ago but who knows what it's going to be in the next 6 to 12 months.
So Pakistan is -- seems to be improving.
We see opportunities in Iraq firming up.
Gary referenced Jordan as some very good opportunities in the pipeline has come up pretty substantially since the last time we spoke and we've booked quite a bit of orders about $60 million worth of orders that have been booked very very recently.
We also see good opportunities longer term in Brazil.
It's progressing.
We're still in the early stages but we see good long-term growth opportunities in Brazil.
And I'd say also Saudi and the UAE are both good opportunities for us over the medium term.
So we feel good overall about the pipeline we have in international and those prospects which I just went through.
So I don't know if you've got any perspective on the backlog or...
I do.
Just again these numbers are probably not totally final at the moment but funded backlog is roughly $3.1 billion.
And if I go to the components it's roughly $1.3 billion at RF and roughly $931 billion at Integrated Network Solutions.
And then at Government Communications Systems it's $875 million.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Quilty with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two follow-up questions on the CapRock business.
First with regard to integration.
Can you give us an idea of how far along you're in that process? I think that was one of the more complex activities putting GCS and CapRock together.
And second of all can you talk to us about the demand environment there and I guess specifically on the government side with increased government investment in the WGS program how that might impact your demand for services.
On the first one I would say we're very deep in the integration process.
If this was football season I'd say we were deep in the fourth quarter but we're not spiking the ball yet.
We've got some things we're still working on but we're pretty far advanced on integration.
There's also going to be longer term clearly some things we're going to do to drive continuous improvement in CapRock that will help us extend beyond the 400 basis points of improvement we are expecting to see in fiscal year '13.
So I think we're doing -- we're progressing well.
There's more opportunity that still remains ahead of us.
And I'll let Dan maybe comment on the government environment on CapRock.
Chris I think with the WGS Ka service obviously we'll keep an eye on that as we will the commercial services.
But again for most of the applications that we have currently the C X Ku still is clearly the mission-critical kind of things we still see driving our business.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And what do you see as the primary growth driver by end market as you look ahead into FY '13 or beyond is it government is it commercial or oil services? You're talking within CapRock.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Within CapRock.
Yes really I think it's across all 3 of them.
And we spent a fair amount of time talking about the strategy in each piece at the end Investor Day.
The -- we know that the energy market is growing solidly double-digit and we feel good that we're at least holding our own I would say probably gaining share.
Maritime is also growing quite a bit and we are gaining share in the maritime segment.
We talked about and Gary mentioned again today about Royal Caribbean.
You can imagine that when one very large cruise line operator goes to the type of a broadband capacity on a boat that Royal Caribbean is it's going to spur other players in the industry to do the same thing.
So we continue to be encouraged by opportunities in maritime.
And Dan just spoke a bit about government.
So Chris really all across 3 we see very good strong opportunities.
Your next question comes from the line of Gautam Khanna with Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> I joined the -- late in the call.
It's -- so I apologize if you've covered this.
But if you were to think about the M/A-COM business the public safety business is that still doing something in the order of 10% EBIT margins? We had a very strong fourth quarter.
The margins were up hundreds of basis points and solidly above 10% so solidly double digit for the year came in just below 10%.
For next year we think it'll be again just below 10% as we make some investments in LTE both in R&amp;D as well as in sales and marketing expenses to position us for very good strong top line and bottom life -- bottom line growth going forward.
That being said we still see that business to be sort of a low- to mid-teens business longer term on EBIT loss [ph].
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you have any preliminary color on the DAB review of the JTRS HMS program that happened last week? Well it's a very interesting series events got them over the last couple of weeks which as you would imagine we're following very very closely as a lot of other people are.
We certainly respect the decision that Undersecretary Kendall made to do what's right for the war fighter for the taxpayer by not approving a radio that the Director of OT&amp;E said wasn't ready for fielding.
It shows at least to us a lot of integrity in the process.
The decisions are being made when products are ready for fielding.
And at the end of the day that's what these NIEs really are all about and it does show integrity in the process that's been laid out by the Undersecretary.
We're encouraged by the comments that Secretary Kendall was making around competition.
We think that's very encouraging like GMR like the [indiscernible] handheld like the SRW appliqué like Rifleman Radio.
We see HMS is also going to go strongly towards open competitive environment over time.
And that message that is being -- that is coming out of the Pentagon is also one that's been well supported by members of the Congress because it's the right thing to do for the war fighter for -- and for the taxpayer as a whole.
Our radios have been performing very very well.
They've been fielded on the battlefield they're NSA-certified.
And at the end of the day as we said in early June and as Dan had clearly laid out we're going to ultimately win in this space on innovation on affordability and importantly speed speed of execution.
So we follow the DAB and what's been coming out of the Pentagon as very very closely.
And we respect the decision that the Undersecretary has made.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just a quick follow-up on my first question please.
If you were to assume M/A-COM is a whatever 14% margin or something thereabouts you still have the tactical RF business doing well north of 40% operating margins and I just -- and that's been the case for I think 3 quarters now.
Can you comment on how you -- we should think about that level given the mix dynamics you explained for next year with DoD tactical down well in excess of what foreign is up and will you be able to maintain those margins? Well as -- we guided next year to margins of 30% to 31% in the RF segment and we talked at some fair detail as to how that's -- what's causing that margin to come down from where it has been this year and in the past.
Part of it is mix and volume and pricing in tactical and part of it is some investments that we've made in R&amp;D as well as in sales and marketing expenses.
So Gautam I think you're right on with tactical coming down mid- to high-single digits next year and PSPC growing and we all know that PSPC comes in at a lower overall margin.
That does sort of compress the margin expectations next year in that particular segment.
But again I come back over the longer term we feel good about being able to preserve our margins in both tactical and grow our margins in public safety over the long time -- over the long period.
So we feel good about our prospects there and again I think Daniel laid out his strategy for achieving that pretty clearly in early June.
LLC Research Division</strong> And what do you anticipate the public safety margins should be at when you're mature on your process? Is it a 15% EBIT margin business is it a 20% business? Well right now what we're focused on is making sure that we make the proper smart investments in fiscal year '13.
It will compress our margins a little bit it won’t be down year-over-year but be sort of consistent with where we ended at fiscal year '12 as we mix the right investments to position that business for longer-term success.
Longer term we've got lots of opportunities to drive efficiency productivity operational excellence throughout public safety.
Dan and his team have a beat on this they're working very very hard on this.
And that this is the margins we'll expand over time.
It could be into the low teens to mid teens but again we're focused right now on delivering fiscal year '13.
Your next question is a follow-up from the line of Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> You guys put out a press release a couple of weeks ago that you're working with the SRW waveform and evolving it.
I was wondering if you could comment on that specifically as well as what that means if anything for ANW2.
Well Joe this is Dan.
First of all the SRW what we are is the integrating service contractor so similar to what GD does for WNW.
The JTRS JPEO has picked somebody who keeps up with the waveform keeps it enhanced and keeps it current in the library.
That's our job on that particular one.
SRW and ANW2 are part of a family of waveforms.
SRW is at the lower -- lowest level of the echelon and ANW is higher than that so they don't in essence compete with each other so...
Research Division</strong> So I shouldn't read this as you're being brought into the fold on the JTRS waveforms and have agreed passively to -- maybe a little bit to push your proprietary waveforms less.
Well no.
I think what it means is we've always been in the -- working with the library on JTRS from day one holding things out of the library whether it be WNW SRW MUOS whatever they are and put them on our radios.
I think as we go longer term we're moving to a situation where we're going to continue to press the government.
And with the proprietary as you called it ANW2 we're working actively with them to put that into the library.
So there's no long-term plan on anybody's part not to have all these in the library and open sourced to everybody all waveforms.
Your last question is a follow-up from the line of Pete Skibitski with Drexel Hamilton.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm not sure who wants to speak to this but I was interested in your comments if you thought it was significant that DoD has sort of -- seems to have disestablished the JTRS PEO or at least kind of changed the name.
I don't know if that's kind of a pro forma thing or if you think there is something that could potentially benefit you to that move.
I think -- Pete this is Dan.
I think what -- clearly the clear message was that and if you read the release what the Undersecretary did was he said "Okay I'm going to give the service that has the most intra-radios control over it " and that basically no shock to any of us we don't think it changes much in what's going on.
And clearly we're going to continue to work with the army as the new executive officer whether it's PEO C3T or whoever it is when they get it all done.
We don't think it changes much.
Innovation and our agility and affordability will still win out no matter who the JPEO is.
All right.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q1 2013 Harris Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Sonia and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would like to turn the call over to Pamela Padgett Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed ma'am.
Hello.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Harris' first quarter of fiscal 2013 earnings call.
I'm Pamela Padgett and on the call today is Bill Brown President and CEO; Gary McArthur Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Dan Pearson Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Before we get started a few words on forward-looking statements.
In the course of this teleconference management may make forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements involve assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those statements.
For more information and a discussion of such assumptions risks and uncertainties please see the press release and filings made by Harris with the SEC.
In addition in our press release and on this teleconference and the related presentation we will discuss certain financial measures and information that are non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to the comparable GAAP measures is included in tables of our press release and on the Investor Relations section of our website which is www.harris.com.
A replay of this call will also be available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
And with that Bill I'll turn the call over to you.
Okay.
Well thank you Pam and welcome to our first quarter fiscal 2013 earnings call and I wish that all of you in Hurricane Sandy's path remain safe.
I'll begin today's call by turning to Slides 3 and 4 in the presentation.
Harris first quarter results were about as expected and represent a good start to fiscal 2013.
Revenue was $1.3 billion and down 6% with earnings per share of $1.14 flat with prior year non-GAAP EPS of $1.14.
Although lower revenue and income in Tactical Communications and IT Services resulted in a decline in total company results we were able to hold operating margin essentially flat with the prior year reflecting reduced costs across the company.
We are tracking well to our productivity target of $75 million with cost reductions taking place across operating units and at corporate headquarters.
Based on first quarter results corporate expense is on track to be $70 million for the year which is about $12 million lower than the prior year.
But cost reduction is not coming at the expense of R&amp;D investment and product innovation for the future.
In the first quarter total company-funded R&amp;D increased 4% and in RF Communications by 6%.
In Tactical Communications we were especially pleased with our success in lowering costs other than R&amp;D.
Even with the significant revenue decline of 18% Tactical operating margin held steady at last year's level.
Total RF Communications operating margin was slightly lower as a result of business mix related to the revenue growth of 12% in Public Safety.
CapRock's success in serving the international energy market with their global footprint continued to drive excellent result.
CapRock's operating performance improved over the prior year and we made good progress in Healthcare were our operating loss declined significantly year-over-year moving us closer to our goal of Healthcare being profitable in fiscal 2013.
Government Communications Systems posted an excellent quarter with revenue growth of 5% and operating margin of 14.4%.
Total orders for the company were higher than revenue and funded backlog was up both sequentially and on a year-over-year basis.
And maybe most important the company was awarded in the quarter a number of significant new contracts that position us well for the future.
In the Government Communications Systems we won 3 significant contracts with the FAA all of which provide essential elements of NextGen which is the FAA's multibillion-dollar initiative to transform the National Airspace System.
Data Communications Integrated Services or DCIS for $331 million will transform voice-based air traffic control to automated air traffic management.
NAS Voice System or NVS for $291 million will upgrade the voice switching system to a modern Voice over IP network replacing a legacy system that you may recall was provided by Harris 20 years ago and NAS Enterprise Messaging Service or NEMS for $63 million which supports the SWIM program and provides enterprise-wide data sharing.
A lot of acronyms but a lot of capabilities that over time have the potential to be worth more than $1.5 billion.
These wins coupled with FTI and the hosted payload solution for the Iridium NEXT constellation that we won in June and that will provide air traffic control over remote regions have substantially strengthened our global air traffic control capabilities over the last 6 months.
In RF Communications we were awarded 2 large follow-on IDIQ contracts: $297 million from the Navy for Navy and Marine Corps requirements; and a $397 million Consolidated Single-Channel Handheld Radio contract for the DoD with a ceiling value of $712 million.
These contracts support modernization in the U.S.
tactical radio market and the continued standardization on Falcon III.
We continue to generate strong free cash flow and create value by returning cash to shareholders through repurchases and dividends.
In the first quarter we increased our dividend by 12% the second increase this calendar year to a rate that is nearly 50% higher than it was 18 months ago.
And before turning it over to Gary let me turn to a topic that I'm sure is on everyone's mind with respect to Harris and that is the DoD's recent LRIP approval for the HMS Manpack program.
After being selected for the HMS Manpack requirement for the first 2 BCTs and Capability Set 13 and with the publicized performance issues of the program of record we believe we are well positioned to win the remaining HMS Manpack requirement.
We're now assuming the program of record LRIP radios are fielded for that requirement.
And we've removed the opportunity from our pipeline which was about $50 million.
While this opportunity has been dropped a few others have been added recently or have increased in size such as greater opportunities with SOCOM and the Marine Corps in addition to encryption products for the Army that cover about 1/2 but not all of the LRIP impact.
So we've a little more risk in the year in RF Communications but we still have 3 more quarters to go to cover it.
On a longer-term basis keep in mind that the acquisition objective is for 72 000 radios and the LRIP was for only about 3 700 radios or about 5%.
The excellent news for Harris in all of this is that Frank Kendall the Pentagon's acquisition chief officially directed full and open competition for the remaining 95% and for the competition to be -- to occur no later than the fourth quarter of GFY '13.
As we've said many times full and open competition has been our goal because in a fair fight we'll win on innovation capability and affordability.
Our radios work.
They've been proven at the NIEs on the battlefields of Iraq and Afghanistan and in countless other missions of both U.S.
and foreign armed forces.
With this final decision by the Pentagon all JTRS programs are now open to competition and we've officially overcome the most significant hurdle to competing for the U.S.
Army's multibillion-dollar tactical radio modernization.
I'll turn it over to Gary to comment on segment results and guidance outlook and then I'll come back with a few comments before we open the call to questions.
Thank you Bill and good morning.
Moving to segment results on Slide 5.
Revenue for RF Communications was $445 million and declined 11% compared to $497 million in the prior year.
Orders for the segment totaled $363 million and book-to-bill was 0.82.
In Tactical Communications orders were $254 million backlog was $612 million and book-to-bill was 0.83.
Tactical Communications revenue declined 18% compared to the prior year.
As you are aware in the U.S.
market we are managing through a market transition from one that previously benefited from strong up-tempo to a multibillion-dollar modernization cycle and we are investing in R&amp;D and product innovations to be as successful in this modernization as we were in the last.
As a result of the transitioning U.S.
market we expect tough year-over-year compares during fiscal 2013 but expect sequential improvement as we progress through the fiscal year.
As Bill mentioned and as detailed in our press release we have excellent new contract wins in U.S.
Tactical Communications.
And our 12- to 18-month opportunity pipeline in the U.S.
is still well funded at $1.1 billion.
In the international tactical market orders increased over the prior year and the opportunity pipeline remained at $2.1 billion.
And in Public Safety and Professional Communications revenue growth was excellent increasing 12% to $138 million.
Our backlog in Public Safety is solid we continue to have good wins and our opportunity pipeline is $3 billion.
Operating income for the segment was $134 million down from prior year on lower revenue.
Segment operating margin however was 30.2% slightly lower than the 31% in the prior year due to shift in business mix related to strong Public Safety revenue growth.
Even with the steep decline in Tactical revenue we were able to hold Tactical operating margin in the prior year level.
In Public Safety operating margin increased significantly over prior year.
Lowering costs in the segment was not at the expense of R&amp;D.
As Bill mentioned R&amp;D increased 6% in the segment.
Our Falcon radios achieved some very important milestones this quarter.
The Falcon III/PRC-117G Manpack radio achieved JTRS-certified status and is the first and only to do so in the ground tactical radio market.
Also our Falcon III/PRC-152A handheld is now NSA Type-1 certified to operate the JTRS SRW Waveform.
This marks the first and only handheld radio certified for transmitting secret-level SRW voice and data communications allowance -- allowing soldiers at the edge to pass secret voice and data communications to higher echelons operating on classified nets.
In Public Safety we conducted the first multistate demonstration showcasing the power of LTE networks which have the potential to transform the way first responders collaborate and exchange critical data with other agencies.
Through the LTE network all 4 state locations Nevada Florida New York and Massachusetts were connected real time sharing streaming video voice and positioning data.
Turning to Slide 6.
In Integrated Network Solutions first quarter revenue decreased 10% to $376 million.
Solid growth in CapRock of 8% driven largely by continued strength in the international energy market for our satellite communication solutions was more than offset by a significant decline in IT Services of 27% driven primarily from the roll-off of the Patriot program.
Excluding the impact of Patriot IT Services revenue declined 4%.
Operating income was $32 million compared with GAAP operating income of $22 million in the prior year and non-GAAP of $31 million.
Improved operating performance in CapRock and Healthcare was partially offset by lower operating income in IT Services due again to the loss of the Patriot program.
Segment operating margin in the quarter increased from 7.5% in the prior year to 8.6%.
While operating margin improvement was most significant in CapRock operating margin improved slightly in IT Services and the loss in Healthcare declined.
Improved operating performance across the segment reflects our success in lowering costs and in the case of CapRock and Healthcare are the result of our restructuring and integration actions in Q4 of last year.
We continue to expand our presence with the VA.
Harris was awarded several contracts with the VA including a 4-year $47 million follow-on IT Services contract to expand the VA's nationwide wireless network infrastructure from the initial 22 medical centers to 66 and 2 contracts totaling $18 million under the T4 IDIQ contract to improve electronic data interoperability for claims processing.
Healthcare awards also included a contract for $11 million under the GSA's Alliant IDIQ to provide an electronic healthcare record system for the Department of Homeland Security.
All of these contracts were awarded under the previously won Alliant and T4 IDIQs.
Our customers are using these contract vehicles extensively to acquire health information technology and modernization services.
In IT Services awards included a 4-year $46 million contract to provide IT support services to the North American Air Defense Command NORAD and the U.S.
Northern Command USNORTHCOM and a $65 million follow-on contract to operate and support the Air Force Space Command at 50th -- the 50th Space Wing.
We also received a 1-year contract extension on our Navy Marine Corps Intranet program which carries us at least through fiscal 2013.
We are well positioned in our pursuit of the replacement contract called Engine.
Moving to Slide 7.
Revenue in Government Communications was $465 million increasing 5% over the prior year.
Year-over-year revenue increases from the GOES-R weather program and NASA's Space Network Ground Segment Sustainment program were partially offset by continued slower spending by our DRD -- by our DoD customers.
Operating income was $67 million compared with $63 million in the prior year and the operating margin increased from 14.2% to 14.4% and is all performance driven.
Again excellent results in a tough government spending environment.
As Bill mentioned earlier Harris was awarded 3 significant new wins with the FAA making us a major player in the FAA's NextGen initiative.
In addition to these new contracts Harris was also awarded a $51 million follow-on contract for satellite terminals under the U.S.
Army's Modernization of Enterprise Terminals called MET and a $43 million award from classified customers.
These excellent wins contributed to an outstanding 87% win rate for the quarter.
Turning now to discontinued operations.
As a result of recent indicators of value including market trends financial performance and indications of value from interested parties we recorded additional noncash impairment charges in discontinued operations for Cyber Integrated Solutions and Broadcast Communications totaling $222 million.
We've signed an agreement for the sale of the cyber data center.
We should close that shortly.
And we continue to make progress on the disposition of Broadcast which we expect to conclude by the end of the calendar year.
Turning to Slide 8.
Free cash flow was strong at $77 million versus negative $3 million last year with operating cash flow of $121 million compared to $79 million in the prior year and capital expenditures of $44 million much lower than the $82 million in the prior year.
During the quarter we used $50 million to repurchase 1 078 000 shares of our common stock at an average purchase price per share of $46.38.
This is in line with our planned $200 million in share repurchases from free cash flow for the year.
We continue to expect to use up to $200 million of the proceeds from the BCD disposition to repurchase additional shares.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 31.6%.
Moving to Slide 9.
Our fiscal 2013 guidance is unchanged with total Harris revenues still expected to be flat to 2% higher than fiscal 2012 and EPS in the range of $5.10 to $5.30.
Our guidance does not reflect any potential impact from sequestration or additional budget cuts beyond those already agreed to.
We are scrutinizing capital spending being conservative on cash deployment and have incorporated a free cash flow metric for incentive compensation.
We expect to generate another year of strong free cash flow in a range of $595 million to $665 million.
And as is typical for Harris we expect free cash flow to be stronger in the back half of the year.
With that let me turn it back to you Bill.
Okay thank you Gary.
As Gary explained our guidance is unchanged and reflects what we believe will be another solid year in a challenging environment.
The threat of sequestration is still on the horizon and we'll have to let that play out before commenting on what impact it might have on our full year.
We continue to prepare as best as we can without any real direction from the government.
Should sequestration or additional budget cuts occur we'll be ready to adjust our cost structure and capital spending plans as appropriate.
In the meantime we'll continue to focus on the things that we control.
Over the long term we strongly believe that the technology and innovation that Harris brings to the marketplace are well aligned with our customers' spending priorities.
Communications and ISR capabilities allow our government and military customers to do more with less and our uniqueness as a supplier that competes on a commercial basis puts us in a favored position to provide innovation in more affordable solutions than our competitors.
And as we reduce costs and improve productivity we'll continue to invest in R&amp;D and the long-term success of our enterprise.
Our strategy remains to execute in our core businesses and our growth initiatives drive operational excellence to lower costs across the company generate higher free cash flow and return capital to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
And now let me close by thanking Dan Pearson Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Harris for his many contributions to Harris over his 35-year career with the company.
As you already know Dan is retiring effective January 9 and this will be his last earnings call with the company.
Dan has been instrumental to our company's success.
He's developed and mentored a number of the senior leaders in the company today and he's provided much guidance and counsel to me as I transition to Harris as CEO.
He's going to be missed by all of us.
And now I'd like to open the -- ask the operator open the line to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Noah Poponak Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wondered if you could potentially just elaborate a little bit on what happened with the additional impairments with Cyber and Broadcast.
Maybe if you can get a little bit more specific outside of just the broad strokes of financial markets.
And if you could split out sort of how much was Broadcast versus how much was Cyber.
And then lastly if this in any way changes how you were thinking about capital deployment as a result of these actions.
Okay well it's good questions.
First of all on both of those we're still deep in the processes particularly on BCD and we'll comment as much as we can.
Our first quarter results in Broadcast were a little less than what we had expected both because the market's a little bit tough and because some of the issues around us selling the business causes some of our customers to be a bit hesitant.
So the results were a little bit worse than we expected but process is pretty well advanced as Gary said due to some recent indicators of value including those things that I've just mentioned.
We've written down the business in the quarter.
You'll see more in the Q that we'll announce or release at the end of this week.
You'll see that we wrote down the value of the business to a net book value that's just under $300 million at $287 million.
We still expect to use up to $200 million of cash proceeds from the sale of BCD and share repurchases.
We still expect that to occur in the third quarter.
On Cyber again Gary said we've signed an agreement on the building.
We're going to work to close that over the next thirty-some odd days.
We expect that'll be completed certainly by the end of the calendar year.
Again you'll see in the Q we'll release later this week the net book value of Cyber's now written down to $38 million and that certainly implies some estimate of value that we expect from Cyber.
The total impairment was about $222 million in total on a pretax basis and the vast majority of that was in the -- in BCD.
About $6 million Gary or so was in Cyber.
That is correct.
Did I get -- Noah did I get all the rest of the questions? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I think that answers it and is very helpful.
And then just one other one.
Just wondering if there's any change within your thinking around mix by segment within your full year revenue guidance.
RF and INS were light of what the full year target is whereas GCS was a little better.
I don't know if that's what you're expecting or if there's any change to your thoughts on segments for the full year.
No we've -- if you look on the last page of the webcast we've -- we basically have held the top line guidance across all 3 of those segments.
So no our guidance for the year overall and by segment has not changed based on what we saw in the first quarter.
But again it's still early in the year Noah but right now no we're not seeing any change.
The next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Let me just be the first to extend the congrats and our sincerest congratulations on all your successes Dan.
You've done a lot for the company and I'm sure they're going to miss having you around.
Thank you Carter.
Research Division</strong> Couple of quick ones.
Bill on RF the margins there in terms of Tactical holding the line obviously you said R&amp;D went up.
So as a percentage of sales that was higher.
Obviously the volumes were down.
I'm wondering if some of this could be the resiliency and the margin could be mixed-related.
And I wondered if you might speak to the growth differentials domestic versus international and whether that played a role in the resiliency in the margins in the quarter.
No the -- as we had signaled several months ago we knew because orders were a bit higher last year in international and domestic we knew that going into FY '13 international was going to be a bigger -- a bit bigger than U.S.
DoD and that's in fact what we're seeing in terms of size of orders size of revenues.
But that mix shift is not what's impacting the margins holding steady in Tactical Communications.
In fact I think it really comes back to I think very very good productivity tight cost controls that Dana and his team have executed up in the J.
Road [ph] factory and throughout their business.
We talked in Q4 about some restructuring that we did some of which was in RF.
We talked about some of the contractors leaving the business.
We talked about very tight controls on marketing and G&amp;A expenses all of which Dana executed on very very well.
And it offset what was a little bit higher R&amp;D in the quarter.
So it comes down to just good execution on the cost side.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And Gary on the Government Systems the margin performance there I know you made the quick comment that it was all performance-driven but obviously really good performance despite the sales year-over-year.
I wondered when you said performance-driven was there anything sort of onetime-ish in nature on any particular contract or was it just good mix across-the-board and good performance that's sustainable on a go-forward basis? It really was just good performance across-the-board.
We looked at the net ups and downs from any kind of reserve releases and if anything it was net negative.
So it was just great program performance great execution good award fees across a broad range of programs.
The next question comes from the line of Michael Lewis Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I have a question on orders with regard to the year-over-year comparable.
It was stated in last year's Q1 report -- or release that you had $1.62 billion in orders and it looks like it's been revised down to $1.48 billion.
I guess the question is did you de-book the $140 million? And if so where it did it come from what segment? I'd have to look into that but I'm pretty sure it was just removing the Broadcast division from our continuing operations but not aware of any de-booking of any orders.
I think you may be looking at last year's including BCD before it was moved into disc ops Michael.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's exactly what I was wondering if it was all Broadcast.
I'm pretty sure that's the case but let me double check and get back to you.
Yes I'm pretty -- I think we're confident that we didn't go back and restate any Q1 orders from FY '12.
So I think we can say it definitively today.
Research Division</strong> And then just a quick question.
The 5-year Navy IDIQ at the time of the award did the Navy also provide any initial funded orders on that contract? And if so how large were they? Gary? The orders that we got off it were very small to date.
So we still have the other contract running off and most of those orders are expected to come in the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then just -- okay so if you're still working on that prior contract what's left on the ceiling on that one? Very limited.
In fact I think we're just about down to a few million left.
The next question comes from the line of Gautam Khanna.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I echo Carter's sentiments Dan.
Congratulations.
Thank you.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple questions.
First Gary or Bill could you just tell us what you need in terms of Tactical book-to-bill to get to the guidance this year? I mean what should we be looking for sufficient to hit the guidance? Well I think as you know let me just say we were not going to -- we don't typically give guidance on book-to-bill and don't sort of give guidance on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
But if you follow the company long enough you sort of know where we ended last year on backlog.
You think you know generally how much we convert of that backlog in the course of the year typically it's around 80% 90%.
We know it's going to be a little less this year because we got Australia and a few others.
We typically book and ship over the course of the year between 55% and 60% within the year.
This year it'll be a little bit higher than that.
And if you run all those numbers with the guidance that we've given for the overall segment I think you can infer that it's going to be about or a little bit higher than a 1 book-to-bill.
So I'm obliquely coming back to answer your question.
LLC Research Division</strong> No that's fair.
I appreciate that.
Second thing you mentioned I think in your prepared comments about the HMS developments and it only removed $50 million from the pipeline.
Is that what you see as -- you said there's a little bit more risk to the RF guidance is it just that -- around that $50 million that was contemplated originally or is it something beyond that? No no.
It's entirely related to the LRIP.
We had about $50 million in our opportunity pipeline for fiscal '13 associated with that LRIP.
And as we pulled that out again just -- I think as you know Gautam the way we look at forecasting we've got a pipeline.
There's probability weightings on the pipeline.
They move in they move out they get bigger they get smaller.
And this one happened to move out but what moved in behind it is some opportunities with SOCOM Marine Corps some encryption products for the Army.
So that's basically what's happened.
There's nothing else that's behind that.
We've been able to sort of offset about 1/2 of it but we still have got about 1/2 to go in the next 3 quarters.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I may have missed this in response to Noah's question about the impairment charges but are you still expecting about $200 million net of -- a little bit north of $200 million net of tax leakage from the sale of Broadcast or could you ballpark how big that...
Yes the -- what you'll see in the Q is the net book value of the business has been written down to just under $300 million which gives you some indication of the value we expect to receive.
This tax leakage as we brought it down a little bit we thought months ago was between 5% to 10% of net proceeds.
It's now less than 5%.
So we still based on where we stand today expect north of $200 million of cash proceeds again following just what I said before 200 -- up to $200 million being used for share buyback in Q3.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last question if you don't mind on [indiscernible] for fiscal '14 and beyond just given now HMS and all the JTRS programs appear it'll be open to full and open.
What do you think happens with respect to pricing and your ability to kind of hold margins now that you might have a more competitive landscape out there given GD is given entry into those? First of all we won't -- we're not going to get beyond fiscal '13 in terms of guidance.
But look we always have assumed and you heard Dana talk about this in June that the program of record would be a competitor overtime in this space.
That was we never assumed we'd get 100% share.
They went with an LRIP.
They're going to be a competitor as well other people over time.
So we never assumed that we'd get 100% share.
When the order came out for LRIP around $250 million we know that about 1/2 of it is going to be deployed in capability set '13.
We know 1/2 is going to be used about in testing and further development.
But if you run the numbers in terms of the numbers -- the quantities and the dollar values it's a pretty healthy price.
And frankly if the price comes in at that level I think we'll have good news to talk about it in terms of our margin performance in tactical radios.
The next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Dan congratulations to you.
On RF guys I guess starting out can we speak a bit about the international pipeline near term? And it seems like a lot of the U.S.
orders or potential U.S.
orders are -- and those competitions are in the -- certainly in the back half and maybe the fourth quarter of your fiscal year.
So international I think would be more prominent in your bookings this quarter and next quarter.
Is that fair? And is there anything chunky in the near-term pipeline? Well international is always going to be a little bit chunky.
That's -- this year won't be any different from the past.
And keep in mind we've got a big chunk of the backlog that is Australia and that's going to roll out over the course of this year going into FY '14.
So we know we can count on that.
That's actually going to happen.
But Joe we're coming off of a very strong fiscal '12 in terms of the international business.
We had both double-digit revenue and orders growth through fiscal '12.
I think we're well positioned competitively in the marketplace.
We continue to invest in new products and capabilities.
We're expanding the market.
So we're doing I think relatively well.
It's a pretty healthy pipeline but the reality is we don't see a lot of big Australia-sized opportunities out there that are going to be hundreds of millions.
They're going to be more like tens of millions of dollars of opportunities that lead to large opportunities for multi-year modernizations but no big Australia-like opportunities on the horizon.
We see as I said at the Q4 release we talked about Pakistan that still looks pretty good.
The political climate still appears to be improving.
We see opportunities in Iraq firming up.
We think Jordan is still pretty solid and the pipeline there has gotten a bit bigger over last 3 to 6 months.
Brazil is looking pretty attractive to us still in the early stages but we think it's progressing pretty well.
I think we're well positioned in the Middle East particularly in Saudi as well as in the UAE.
And we're seeing some opportunities in the Philippines in Poland a little bit in Denmark.
So we see in lots of different pieces but again not the big Australia-sized opportunities but still we feel very good about prospects for the year as a whole.
I think as we talked before it's tough to predict a particular order in a particular quarter.
But overall for the balance of the year we think international's going to end up being pretty good.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one other one on the Broadcast situation.
I mean obviously just by definition you guys are going to get a bit less -- significantly you're going to get a little bit less than you'd hoped when you started out the process.
And so my question is is there a price at which you wouldn't sell the business or are we firmly committed on this track 100%? Look we made the decision to divest the Broadcast business because we didn't fit -- think it fit strategically with where we want to take the business.
It's now our job to maximize value for share owners and as we dispose of that business and that's exactly what we're doing.
I don't think it's appropriate to talk about where's the sort of the walk-away price.
We're committed to sell the business and do the right thing for share owners given the fact it doesn't fit strategically and that's what the management team has got a bead on right now.
So we'll tell more we'll have more of an update towards the end of the year as we announce the sale of Broadcast and clearly more to say as we announce our Q2 results.
The next question comes from the line of Yair Reiner Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of housekeeping questions.
First taxes came in a little bit below your full year guidance.
Can you give us any update there? This is Gary.
As we've always said tax rates in any given quarter jump up and down because of discrete tax events.
We still feel very good about the 33% rate for the year.
If the R&amp;D credit comes in as expected we probably are going to do a little bit better than that.
But that's where we're at currently.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then it looked to me like the adjustment for participating securities was lower than typical.
Can you give us an update on the guidance there? Well we did buy again about 1 078 000 shares in the quarter.
I think that's what you're referring to.
The decline in shares outstanding actually went up a little bit rather than declined because of the exercise of options and awards that came out in Q1.
There was a lot of activity by employees exercising stock but that would be the only reason the decline wasn't as great.
The next question comes from the line of Mark Jordan Noble Financial.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question relative to the international backlog.
Is there a way or do you have it segmented by geographic region so we'd have a sense of what is Middle East what is Australia what's Western Hemisphere? Well we do actually.
We have a very good sense of where the backlog is by not just hemisphere or geographic region but by country and specific opportunity within a country.
And Dana and his team know it very well.
They track it day-to-day.
They probability weight it.
They have their salespeople chasing it.
But that's just a level of detail that we're not going to get into on an earnings call.
Certainly that has some competitive sensitivity to it clearly so -- but yes we do know the detail very very well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Secondly relative to the what is the competitiveness in the international market with regards to people that you would be bidding against? Is there effective competition there or do you -- or are you finding it more a decision of a specific country going to exercise a purchase order and you're the only game in town? No no.
Typically -- look there's a lot of competition in the international markets and -- but clearly based on what we've seen in terms of market share growth over time we're performing very very well.
You have to understand though in a market -- in a given geography that has standardized on a Falcon II and then a Falcon III product clearly we've -- we're in the catbird seat to win future generations of radio purchases.
And so I think we're well positioned in places where we've been established for some period of time.
But in any place in any country we happen to go in especially with the fiscal constraints we see almost in any place we operate yes there is going to be competition.
There's going to be a desire to get a good radio at a lower cost over time.
And we meet our customers' expectations as best we can.
The next question comes from the line of Chris Quilty Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up.
You had mentioned the certification on the 152A handheld and wanted to clarify.
I know the Rifleman Radio program has also been opened up to full and open competition.
Does the 152A meet all the specs there? And if so how would you stand competitively with that product? I think the -- and I'm going to start and then probably get beyond what I really know and maybe ask Gary or Dan to step in.
But no the 152A can meet those requirements but it's probably a little bit beyond the requirements of what's typically for the Rifleman Radio application based on its clearance and classified data traffic it can handle.
So we are developing a new product generation which will be ready when Rifleman goes to full and open competition by the end of fiscal '13.
I think Dana talked about this in early June with the 330E and we'll be ready with a very very good product that is competitive on size weight and power and at great cost point relative to Rifleman.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And also on the RF business with the 2 recent contract awards both large contracts but both IDIQ so you can't count those towards the backlog in a way that you would traditionally and I know you have some granularity there.
Can you give us a sense -- I mean a little bit disappointing on the book-to-bill here on the radio on the contract for the quarter.
Are you carrying a much higher level of IDIQ business than you might have been in years past that sort of offset the lower traditional book measures? No.
This is Gary Chris.
We're not really.
In fact those vehicles are very similar to the contracts that were in place.
We continue to see a lot of opportunity with those different agencies of the government the Navy Marine Corps are pretty much standardized on our products.
We see lots of opportunity coming from that.
But you're correct we don't book IDIQ vehicles in our backlog.
The only thing that's in backlog are funded orders.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And final question.
On the Manpack I think the actual award for the HMS program was closer to $250 million.
You're pulling $50 million was all you had in your particular forecast but does it not imply that there's maybe a bigger chunk of follow-on business that might not be available? And can you also talk about if you can specifically I mean these are known items where you think you stack up in terms of size weight performance pricing battery life and other metrics that are going to be used to eventually determine which way the orders go? Well I think on the first one I briefly referenced it but let me hit it a little bit more directly.
You're right the order for the LRIP was about $250 million but our understanding is that only about 1/2 of that LRIP is going to be fielded.
And keep in mind that the LRIP radios are coming at a much higher price than what we would have had in our pipeline for $50 million.
We also assumed that the next 3 BCTs were going to be mostly light versus light and heavy BCTs.
They also added a fourth in Fort Carson coming out of the DAB which sort of made the purchases a bit more.
So all of those factors come into play in what happens why it's $250 million versus what we only expected to be about $50 million.
I think the biggest piece of it is 1/2 of it only -- only 1/2 is going to be fielded and it is a much higher price than what we've put in our own opportunity pipeline.
And I think relative to the Manpack in our ability to compete against that look we're working very hard on and we plan to offer a 2-channel Manpack when it goes to full and open -- integrated 2-channel Manpack when it goes to full and open competition by the end of the fiscal year and I think we're going to be very competitive versus where the program record happens to stand.
Chris as we said when you asked a question on MNVR we'll have a 2-channel competitive solution and we're not going to get into what it's going to do right now.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is that the appliqué that you demonstrated a couple years ago? No.
No.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And you can have a 2-channel radio but the process of getting an NSA certification typically takes about a year so does that put you behind the competition? No we'll get there.
We do have a question from Gautam Khanna of Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just had a quick follow-up.
You guys talked about the foreign RF pipeline.
You mentioned Pakistan.
I just wondered I mean does sequestration and just -- does it matter who is elected President? I mean how much of a moving train is that order and orders similar to that in the Middle East say? How dependent are they on kind of congressional approval whether it be something that has already been approved or is it something that you think you're going to need buy-in from Congress before it can happen? And does it matter who wins the election in terms of the likelihood or non-likelihood of those orders happening this fiscal year? Right right right.
Look we -- first of all our pipeline it doesn't really hinge on who takes the White House and who's in Congress in November or not.
I think it's -- I mean I won't talk specifically about the opportunities and how they're being funded.
But in general from what we saw in the President's budget the FMS funding line looks pretty good.
It's sort of flat maybe up a little bit in GFY '13.
But also the amount of our international business that is coming from countries that require FMS funding is declining over time.
Two years ago it was north of 40%.
Last year it was about 1/3 or a little less than that.
This year it's sort of down towards 20%.
So it's coming down over time and therefore it is less dependent upon U.S.
government funding for those kinds of opportunities.
Hopefully I answered that question.
It's...
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes it was very helpful.
All right.
Thank you everyone.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2013 Harris Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today Ms.
Pamela Padgett Vice President in Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our second quarter fiscal 2013 earnings call.
I'm Pamela Padgett.
And on the call today is Bill Brown President and CEO; and Gary McArthur Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started a few words on forward-looking statements.
In the course of this teleconference management may make forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements involve assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those statements.
For more information and a discussion of such assumptions risks and uncertainties please see the press release and filings made by Harris with the SEC.
In addition in our press release and on this teleconference and the related presentation we will discuss certain financial measures and information that are non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to the comparable GAAP measures is included in the tables of our press release and on the Investor Relations section of our website which is www.harris.com.
A replay of this call will also be available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
And with that Bill I'll turn the call over to you.
Well great.
Thank you Pam and welcome to our second quarter fiscal 2013 earnings call.
Since our first quarter earnings call in late October the government market has become more uncertain and spending more constrained.
But even in this challenging environment second quarter results were solid.
Turning to Slides 3 and 4 in the presentation.
Earnings per share was $1.25 $0.01 higher than prior year non-GAAP EPS and $0.07 higher than prior year GAAP EPS even with revenue down 2%.
Orders were up 30% over the prior year and up double digit in all 3 segments resulting in a book-to-bill of greater than 1 and funded backlog essentially flat to prior quarter and up about 10% over prior year.
A continued focus on operational excellence and productivity is mitigating the impact of the lower revenue.
Cost reductions from restructuring actions and efficiencies in the manufacturing and supply chain are now tracking above our target of $75 million and we continue to further reduce corporate expense which is down 15% in the first half and is now on track to be down about 20% for the year versus fiscal 2012.
Cost reduction isn't coming at the expense of investment in the future.
While we continue to focus on lowering cost we're increasing investment in product development with total company funded R&amp;D up 15% in the quarter on top of a 4% increase in Q1.
Year-over-year Tactical Communications operating margin held steady again this quarter while operating margin for the RF segment was slightly lower as a result of business mix related to revenue growth in Public Safety.
Government Communications Systems reported another excellent quarter with revenue growth of 4% and operating margin of 14.9%.
And our growth initiatives in Integrated Network Solutions performed well with CapRock and Healthcare achieving significant increases in orders and revenue as well as improved operating performance.
Gary will provide a little more color on segment performance in just a few minutes.
Free cash flow was solid in the quarter at $120 million bringing us to $200 million -- or approximately $200 million for the first half of fiscal '13 about 25% higher than prior year.
We continue to tighten down on capital spending and for the first half are trending well below last year and our previous guidance.
While our results in the quarter was solid the indecision and political gridlock in Washington is creating an even more challenging budget environment.
The potential for an extended CR combined with the continuing threat of sequestration is creating a good deal of uncertainty around expected spending levels.
Since early January the commentary and tone out of the DOD has changed significantly and they have now dropped their previous approach of not planning for sequestration.
Deputy Secretary of Defense Ash Carter in a mid-January memo directed the services to slow spending now and plan for the worst.
This was followed by budget guidance memos from each of the services outlining immediate actions to reduce overall spending: freezing civilian hiring terminating temporary employees deferring maintenance and looking at all contracts for savings and if necessary to consider civilian furloughs.
Within the last few weeks we've seen a market change in behavior from several of our U.S.
tactical radio customers as they've turned their attention to sorting out what they can afford to spend and where they need to preserve funding in the face of no budget a possible expanded CR and even potentially bigger sequestration cuts.
This sorting out of budget priorities without having any clarity on what the ultimate budget will be is causing procurement to slow.
And while the deadline remains on the horizon it sure feels to us as if our customers are starting to act like sequestration has already been triggered.
And as you know our prior guidance which was initially set in April last year didn't include sequestration.
We're hopeful that this gridlock is relatively short-lived and that we'll soon see some budget clarity with procurement back on track.
But for now we feel it's prudent to reflect in our guidance the reduced discretionary spending we're now seeing and what we believe is the potential impact of greater budget uncertainty on our back half results.
I'll come back with a few comments before we open up the call to questions.
So let me now turn it over to Gary to discuss segment results.
Thank you Bill and good morning.
Moving to segment results on Slide 5.
Revenue for RF Communications was $486 million and declined 8% compared to $526 million in the prior year.
Orders for this segment totaled $402 million and book-to-bill was 0.83.
In Tactical Communications revenue was $337 million and declined 14%.
The decline in DOD revenue was partially offset by higher international revenue.
As we previously communicated we are expecting tough year-over-year revenue comparison in fiscal 2013 as the market transitions from strong [indiscernible] to a multi-billion dollar modernization cycle.
Tactical Communication orders were $287 million.
Backlog was $561 million and book-to-bill was 0.85.
Orders in both DOD and international were up significantly from the prior year resulting in a book-to-bill slightly better than in the first quarter and limiting backlog erosion to about $50 million.
Based on a bottoms-up analysis of specific opportunities over the next 12 to 18 months the opportunity pipeline is about $1.2 billion in the U.S.
with close to $600 million in the proposal or closure phases.
International pipeline is $2.4 billion with over $800 million in the proposal or closure phases.
Once an opportunity makes it to these phases our win rate is typically very high.
Key wins in the quarter highlight how we are expanding our addressable markets through product investments and convergence of military and civil security in the international markets.
In the international market Harris received orders totaling $42 million $36 million in the quarter and $6 million after the close of the quarter from a country in central Asia for the first phase of a multi-phase integrated C4ISR system that uses Falcon III high-capacity line of sight radios as a high-speed secure communications backbone.
An additional $50 million order we were counting on now looks to be moving out of our fiscal year as a result of a longer FMS approval cycle than expected contributing to the reduced revenue guidance for RF.
The political climate continues to improve and we remain confident that the $400 million of future opportunity in the central Asia country will be realized.
Harris was awarded $33 million in orders from a NATO country to supply $22 million in Falcon III handheld radios and $11 million in smaller secure personal radios.
Several years ago Harris was a new entrant in the international secure personal radio market segment.
We quickly gained market share selling over 39 000 units.
And for calendar 2012 we are now ranked #1 in the international market.
The U.S.
market for personal radios is just emerging and was initiated as a sole-sourced procurement of radios called Rifleman Radios under the HMS portion of the JTRS program of record.
With open procurement for Rifleman Radios now underway we are bringing this very successful radio back to the U.S.
and incorporating the SRW waveform leveraging the distinct advantage gained from product synergies.
You may recall from our June analyst meeting that the U.S.
version is called the RF-330E.
In several international markets we are benefiting from convergent synergies between military tactical radio and public safety opportunities.
In the second quarter we received a $31 million order from the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago for a P25 land mobile radio system to provide fully interoperable seamless communication between military personnel using existing Falcon radios and law enforcement agencies providing public safety.
In this instance a longstanding tactical relationship expanded into a public safety opportunity.
We are seeing similar tactical radio and public safety opportunities in Latin America.
In Brazil we received several orders totaling $24 million to supply Falcon III radios and Unity radios to provide interoperability between military and civil police similar to what we saw last quarter from Mexico.
In Public Safety and Professional Communications revenue growth was strong increasing 10% to $149 million and our orders were up 35%.
Our backlog in Public Safety is solid and contains multiyear program wins and the opportunity pipeline is still a healthy $3 billion.
Operating income for the segment was $151 million down from prior year as a result of lower tactical revenue.
Segment operating margin held strong at 31.1%.
As expected a shift in product mix due to strong revenue growth in public safety caused operating margin to decline from prior year's 32.8%.
As Bill mentioned Tactical Communications' operating margin was essentially flat with the prior year on lower revenue which is really good performance.
Turning now to Slide 6 and Integrated Network Solutions.
Second quarter revenue increased 3% to $396 million.
Solid growth in CapRock of 9% and in Healthcare Solutions of 21% was partially offset by a decline in IT Services revenue primarily from the loss of the Patriot program.
This marks the last tough compare related to the loss of Patriot.
CapRock revenue was higher in all 3 markets: energy maritime and government with the majority of revenue growth in energy and maritime.
Segment orders were up 11%.
In CapRock orders were up 21% with strength across energy maritime and government.
Key orders at CapRock included a contract extension expanding a recent large and strategic win in the maritime market with Royal Caribbean; and in energy with wins at Baker Hughes and Anadarko.
And as a result of CapRock's joint initiative with RF Communications we received from a country in Europe our first win for a new service an end-to-end commercial UHF tactical satellite solution.
The same service can be provided to other international customers.
According to reports the global government demand for UHF satellite capacity exceeds government-owned supply by over 200%.
Over time we believe this new CapRock service offering could generate an annual revenue in the tens of millions of dollars.
In Healthcare orders more than doubled over the prior year driven by continued strength in the government market as well as a pickup in new awards in the commercial area.
We had 4 awards totaling $20 million from large enterprise health care providers for our clinical integration solution hosting services and health information exchange capabilities.
In the Integrated Network Solutions segment operating income was $32 million compared with GAAP operating income of $20 million in the prior year and non-GAAP of $29 million.
Non-GAAP segment operating margin in the quarter increased from 7.6% in the prior year to 8.2% mainly as a result of improved operating performance in CapRock and operating income in IT Services holding flat on lower sales.
Healthcare operating cost was slightly lower than the prior year and compared to our first quarter.
Moving to Slide 7.
Revenue in Government Communications was $439 million increasing 4% over the prior year.
Year-over-year revenue increases from the GOES-R weather program the Space Network Ground Segment Sustainment Program and classified programs were partially offset by continued slower spending by the Department of Defense.
Operating income was $66 million compared with $63 million in the prior year and operating margin was a strong 14.9% as a result of excellent execution and award fees favorable program product mix and a favorable CAS 403 settlement.
Key wins in the quarter included awards totaling $242 million from several classified customers and Harris' selection as 1 of 20 prime contractors to compete for work under the 5-year $10 billion GTACS IDIQ contract.
Turning to discontinued operations.
We expect to close the sale of Broadcast in early February and we have a signed agreement for the sale of the Cyber data center.
Turning to Slide 8.
Free cash flow was $120 million versus $159 million last year with operating cash flow of $159 million compared to $199 million in the prior year and capital expenditures of $39 million compared to $41 million in the prior year.
During the quarter we repurchased 1 022 000 shares of our common stock at an average per share price of $48.91.
This is in line with our planned $200 million in share repurchases from the free cash flow for the year and we continue to plan to purchase an additional $200 million in shares upon the successful conclusion of the Broadcast sale.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 30.8% and favorably impacted by tax settlements.
Moving to Slide 9.
As Bill explained we're updating our guidance range to reflect expected slower spending as a result of greater budget uncertainty and the sequestration-like environment we currently find ourselves in.
For total Harris revenue is now expected to be down 2% to 4% and EPS in the range of $5 to $5.20 with lower expected revenue in Tactical and IT Services partially offset by higher operating margin in Government Communications Systems continued cost reductions and a more favorable tax rate.
In RF Communications U.S.
budget uncertainty and a delayed international order caused by a longer-than-expected FMS approval cycle has caused us to reduce our revenue guidance from 3% to 4% lower to 7% to 9% lower.
As a result of continued focus on operational excellence and further cost reductions we expect to hold operating margins at 30% the low end of previous expectations.
In Integrated Network Solutions we have lowered our revenue guidance from 4% to 5% growth to a decline of 0% to 1% to reflect further weakness in IT Services which is now expected to be down 10% to 14% around 2% to 4% down excluding the Patriot program.
Margin expectations are now 9% to 10% for the segment.
In Government Communications Systems we expect revenue to grow 1% to 2% compared to previous expectations of 2% to 3%.
As a result of continued excellent program execution and continued favorable program product mix we expect margin to be higher at around 14.5%.
We now expect our tax rate for the fiscal year to decline from 33% which already included the R&amp;D tax credit to 32% as a result of favorable U.S.
and international tax settlements.
The R&amp;D investment tax credit expected benefit in 3Q is roughly $7 million and in Q4 roughly $1 million.
And looking at the back half of our fiscal year as a result of greater budget uncertainty and the expected timing of international orders our expectation is now for 3Q earnings per share to be in line with 2Q '13.
We continue to scrutinize capital spending and are being conservative on cash deployment.
CapEx for the first half of the year was $83 million $40 million lower than in the first half of the prior year.
Our revised guidance for CapEx is now $200 million to $210 million.
We expect to generate another year of strong free cash flow in a range of $590 million to $650 million.
And with that let me turn it back to Bill.
Okay.
Well thank you Gary.
We remain hopeful that sequestration and budget uncertainty are soon resolved so we can get more clarity not only on the current GFY '13 budget but some indication of the GFY '14 budget and the direction and priorities over the next several years.
We believe the guidance provided captures the challenging budget environment for the back half of fiscal '13 as we now see it and we stand ready to adjust our cost structure as appropriate for fiscal '14 once there is more clarity on the extent of expected budget reductions.
As I mentioned at our analyst meeting last June we said we would address the possibility of sequestration and government budget uncertainty by focusing on the things we control such as executing in our core businesses and exiting what's non-core integrating recent acquisitions driving operational excellence and lowering cost while investing in the future through increased R&amp;D.
We are making good progress in all of these areas.
We're growing share with core customers like the FAA recently winning 2 large NextGen programs; and with our classified customers where orders and revenue continue to climb as a result of our unique capabilities.
We have focused our portfolio and are close to the end on Broadcast and Cyber.
We're integrating growing and improving our performance in our recent acquisitions CapRock Healthcare and Public Safety with each showing solid growth in margin performance in the first half results which indicate we're well on our way to making these growth initiatives a valuable part of Harris.
We're increasing our international market presence by capturing synergies and convergence opportunities like between Tactical and Public Safety in Trinidad and Tobago Brazil and Mexico; and between Tactical and CapRock with the UHF satellite service that CapRock is now offering to international Falcon users.
We're stepping up our game on operational excellence and we're tracking well above our $75 million productivity target for the year.
And at the same time we're investing more in R&amp;D recently launching a number of new products including AppStar InTouch KnightLite ReCon Seeker the 700 and 800 megahertz versions of XG-25 and a ruggedized tablet computer.
We have reduced our capital intensity with CapEx down about 30% in the first half allowing us to maintain strong free cash flow.
We're deploying capital in a shareholder-friendly way and we've raised our dividend twice in the last 12 months.
Now we've rounded out our leadership team with a new head of Integrated Network Solutions and a new head of Healthcare.
We are making good progress.
I'm confident in our strategy and I'm optimistic about the long-term potential of the company as we address the fiscal challenges we've been anticipating for some time.
We have a terrific team working very hard and executing exceptionally well in a difficult environment.
And with that I'd like to ask the operator to now open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a big-picture question for you Bill.
And then I want to kind of go off your comments you made right there at the end about being optimistic about the longer-term outlook for the company.
I wondered if you might speak to the longer term let's call it 3- to 5-year outlook for INS and not in terms of formal targets but what you see for the pieces of that business in terms of returns on capital or margins or however you like to think about it but where do you see that business ultimate -- the pieces of that business ultimately heading sort of 3 to 5 years out if you can? Sure.
And it's a very good question.
You know INS is composed of a variety of businesses that we're just still in the mode of integrating and I think we're performing very very well.
CapRock I'm very very proud of what they've done.
They're growing at very high-single digit rates.
The margins are coming up pretty nicely.
And I still think we're in the early stages of integration and I'm very optimistic about the longer-term potential in that business.
We talked about the 3 pieces that we compete in: energy maritime and government and I think we're very well-positioned in each.
We're a market leader in energy and that's growing nicely.
We're growing our share in maritime with the win with Royal Caribbean and you can imagine that there's more wins that are going to come down the path in that business.
And I think we're holding our own if not gaining a little bit of share on the government side.
So longer term I feel very good about CapRock.
To me that's a sort of a mid- to maybe high-teen margin business but that's going to take us some time to get there but boy I'm pretty optimistic about where we're going in CapRock.
The Healthcare business we performed very very well on the government side.
We've grown dramatically.
We acquired Carefx.
We're integrating it.
We're turning it around.
As you know we lost a lot of money in that business last year.
We expect to be profitable in Healthcare in fiscal '13.
I think we're making very good progress in that direction.
We have reaffirmed today we'll be profitable in Healthcare through the full year and over time I see that business growing very nicely.
That also could be a mid-teens type of business over time once we look at how Carefx and the software suite really takes hold in the marketplace.
We've got a big event coming up at the end of February where we're releasing a new version of the software.
So I think the back half of our year hinges on that but I feel pretty good about our prospects longer term in Healthcare.
And in INS -- or in IT Services we've been very well-positioned strong double-digit margin based on a particular contract we have with the government.
As you know that contract is being rebid.
I think we're well-positioned on that contract.
It will be awarded probably sometime in the back half of our year.
It's really uncertain as to exactly when.
But the reality is that business which has been a double-digit margin business is going to come down in margin.
It will be mid- to high-single digit.
We expect that.
And based on all of that we see that the margins in INS continue to improve.
You saw today we've narrowed the range to 9% to 10% of margin in that particular business and that's a double-digit margin business going -- longer term.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to focus in on the RF the Tactical Communications business internationally if you could.
And I heard what you said in the comments about a $150 million opportunity maybe flipping out.
I was just wondering if you could characterize the the overall international business.
Or x that one booking are things tracking the way you expected 6 months ago or is there any other changes one way or the other? And then last quarter you characterized the business as having lots of small orders but no big ones.
Are there any larger fish that are starting to come into the -- your profile? Yes.
It's a good series of questions.
Let me sort of take it from a high point and then come back to specifically what happened in the quarter why we adjusted the year for international.
As Gary mentioned we have a pretty robust pipeline in international $2.4 billion.
It's still -- as I said last time it's in the tens of millions if not hundreds of millions of dollars over time.
We don't see any gigantic one-off opportunities like we saw with Australia but we see in series there are lots of good opportunities in a variety of countries around the world.
The Middle East remains I think still pretty robust.
Iraq remains pretty strong.
UAE Saudi Jordan all look very good for us over time as does northern Africa.
That's been a pretty good market for us and I think it remains to be important going forward.
Central Asia the countries in central Asia that we're referring to have very very strong potential.
The political climate continues to improve.
Brazil and Mexico were very very promising and we're winning orders in Brazil.
We feel pretty good about our prospects there.
And we won some orders in Europe that we've talked about today and had some releases on very recently.
So I think overall the pipeline looks robust.
We feel very good about that.
As you recall Joe our fiscal '12 was very very strong in international.
We had very strong double-digit orders and revenue growth in international tactical radios.
It remains a lumpy business but we're still feeling pretty good about fiscal '13 and beyond.
Now what happened just in the last 30 60 days in international as Gary mentioned we had a pretty large order for $50 million that just moved out.
But the FMS process for this particular country is taking a little bit longer than we had thought 30 to 60 days ago.
We're seeing the state department and the DOD wanting to spend a bit more time scrutinizing exactly how the FMS funds are being spent within this country.
That is different than what's happened in the past so we're going through a bit of a transition.
The orders we booked in Q2 and a little bit in Q3 which totaled $42 million for this particular country; we're well in the process there with long-term orders that we've been working at for quite some time.
The $50 million follows on that.
And longer term we see the opportunity to be something like $400 million.
So this a very big opportunity.
It's a timing issue.
It moved out of the year.
It just didn't move out of the opportunity set for Harris Corporation.
A couple of other things moved around.
We saw some ins and outs in the Middle East.
We are seeing as Iraq converts from an FMS process to commercial terms it's taking a bit longer than we expected but no big movers in or out other than the one I'm referring to as the $50 million.
We still feel pretty good about our prospects long term in international Joe.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Yair Reiner with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> So I was wondering whether the new guidance now fully reflects the potential for sequestration? And if not how you would size the incremental downside risk to your targets if sequestration does in fact kick in.
And I guess as a follow-on to that I got the impression from your comments that most of the headwinds you're feeling right now are in the tactical realm.
Just wondering how you see sequestration potentially impacting Government Communications; that side of the business as well.
Well you're right.
We are seeing most of the headwind in tactical radios.
Our Government business remains relatively resilient.
It's a longer cycle business.
There's pieces of that -- as you saw we trued up our growth guidance for the year.
There's pieces of that are being impacted but not anywhere near like we're seeing in IT Services and of course more importantly in tactical radios.
And just stepping back we've been saying for quite some time that sequestration is not in our guidance.
It has always been our biggest risk for the fiscal year.
It's been driving a lot of uncertainty for us and for other peers in the defense space.
The new guidance that we now give assumes that the continued budget uncertainty and this threat of sequestration that still hangs over our heads is dramatically slowing DOD procurement and that's going to continue until we see some sort of budget clarity; something that's achieved in our U.S.
government.
Customers we see they're clearly acting as if sequestration has been triggered and we've reflected that changing behavior of our government customers into our guidance.
With the difficulty in forecasting there's still a lot of uncertainty.
We've left a pretty wide range of guidance to reflect the uncertainty.
We think the bottom end is pretty well covered unless there's very severe draconian cuts that go beyond what we've heard in the press about sequestration.
But as I step back and look at the impact of sequestration on our business to the extent that sequestration is triggered and the DoD has given some freedom to make surgical cuts as opposed to peanut butter cuts -- and I think there's been some evolving support in Congress for making that happen that actually can work to our advantage since the products that we have in our portfolio seem to be pretty well aligned with what we understand to be the stated priorities of the DOD.
And that's C4ISR the network DoD field special operation.
And we think that that will ultimately work in our favor.
So that's basically where we stand today.
We're reflecting in our guidance the uncertainty we're experiencing and we'll come back and revisit that to the extent the situation changes as it continues to evolve.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Skibitski with Drexel Hamilton.
LLC Research Division</strong> So Bill just to put a cap on that the bottom end of your guidance reflects what you see as the impact of sequestration if it's sort of a "peanut butter" approach to sequestration? As I said -- look we think we've been pretty conservative on the bottom end.
We've thought very very long and hard about that.
We've looked very hard in particular at our tactical radio business.
We've got a great team in our tactical radio business.
As Gary went through some of the details and shared with you some of the orders that are in the proposal and closure stage we knew we've got pretty high probability of winning those jobs.
We track them very very aggressively and I think we've taken a relatively conservative look at what we see to be -- what's happening in the government.
But our crystal ball is still as cloudy as anybody else's.
So our job here is to drive wins with our government customers execute flawlessly adjust our cost structure where it's smart and makes sense and protect ourselves on the bottom end and that's what we've tried to do.
As I said to the extent that what's evolving in the government over the next 2 3 4 months changes from a pretty draconian state that we're seeing today we'll come back and revisit our guidance.
But right now we think our bottom end pretty well covers the situation.
Your next question comes from the line of Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A 2-part question on RF.
So I know you're saying that the outlook is cloudy and there's not a lot of visibility.
But you've also provided a decent amount of color on the behavior you're seeing in the U.S.
and the opportunities internationally.
Can you tell us if you expect new order book-to-bill to be below or above 1 in the back half? Just to help us formulate the beyond-2013 growth picture.
And then on the segment margin guidance changed there.
Is that just absorption on the lower revenue outlook? Or is there something else going on in terms of change in the behavior terms of the contract with the customer on the margin side? Good questions Noah.
Thank you.
I think for the year we're still expecting our book-to-bill for tactical to be at or higher than 1 and you should take it as reassuring if that may be because we've dropped our revenue.
So we have said it would be about 1 or higher than 1 last time and we're still at the same position today.
The tightening down of our margin range is due to volume.
There's no big change on customer behavior or extraordinary pressure on pricing.
It's really volume-related and we work very very hard to take cost out and still allow to invest aggressively in both Public Safety as well as in Tactical Communications R&amp;D.
And that's a lot of conversation within the management team.
It's a lot of conversation with our board.
Our board fully fully supports us investing in this business for the long term and that's what we're continuing to do.
So that's what's the basis of the tightening down at the bottom end of the range on margin.
Your next question comes from the line of Justin Amero with Cowen and Company.
Do you have any updates on the HMS Manpack radio when it might be -- the next award might be placed or how large you expect it to be? Well the HMS the Manpack itself the RFI was out late November.
We expect the RFP to come out sometime in the February or March timeframe although that's still a little bit uncertain but probably in the next couple of months.
We still expect the award sometime in the late spring -- May June timeframe and deliveries occurring probably sometime in the spring of 2014 and that's the best that we know today.
Again it's pretty fluid.
The budget is being set or reset and obviously we have no color on GFY '14 yet.
But that's the best intelligence we have today.
Your follow-up question comes from the line of Yair Reiner with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I was wondering about the intercompany sales in the quarter.
They were a bit higher than usual.
What drove that and which segment did that benefit in terms of sales? It was actually between our RF Communications and Harris IT Services group as well as between Harris IT Services and our Government Systems group.
So a little higher in the quarter good cooperation between the teams but nothing specific to take from that as a go-forward look.
I think it was just unusually high in the quarter.
Your follow-up question comes from the line of Joe Nadol with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> Bill you've now been in the seat for a year and it's been a pretty busy year; raised the dividend twice and buying back a lot of stock and divested Broadcast -- or divesting Broadcast cutting costs integrating businesses in INS.
And we know about all that stuff.
I'm wondering what's next and if you can help characterize -- because I don't expect you to slow down the pace here.
What should we think about when we think of calendar year 2013 that -- what areas you're going to look at for real strategic focus? I'm spending a lot more time today Joe on our R&amp;D investments and R&amp;D portfolio.
As you know I'm somewhat new to the business and the technology.
I've been here for a year and a couple of months.
It feels like it's a day but it's a year and a couple of months.
We've got a lot of interesting technology that we work on.
As I said before on this call and I think at the investor meeting we have historically developed our R&amp;D plans segment by segment but haven't really done an integrated look across the company and I'm spending a lot more of my time on that.
Because I do think there's opportunities as we increase our investments in R&amp;D to make sure we're spending on the right spots and we're just making sure we're leveraging technology across the franchise as opposed to optimizing it within each individual segment.
So I'm spending a lot of time on R&amp;D.
I do think that that's going to be important and essential to the future of our company.
Spending a lot of my time on integration activities.
We're not through that yet.
I think there is more work that we need to do so I'm spending some time there.
And eventually we're going to come back and talk about how we grow our topline how we grow our franchise through M&amp;A.
We're not there yet.
In the environment that we're in today it's pretty cloudy.
It's hard to kind of go to our board and say "We'd like to buy company X Y or Z" and be articulate in the financial expectations just given the cloudy environment.
That is going to arrive at some point in time.
It will get clearer and when it does I think we've got a good balance sheet as we put BCD behind us and Cyber behind it.
I think we've got a strong enough balance sheet to start to step out a little bit on M&amp;A.
Part of our confidence in being able to do that is developing very very strong integration skills internally convincing our board we know how to integrate companies convincing our shareholders we know how to integrate companies.
And once we do that we'll step out and do some M&amp;A.
Not today but that's going to come over time.
So thank you Joe.
It's a good question.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Skibitski with Drexel Hamilton.
LLC Research Division</strong> Bill the book-to-bill of Public Safety has been under 1 for a number of quarters now.
Has the sales outlook there dimmed at all? This is Gary Peter.
No it really hasn't.
It's -- we still see some really good opportunities.
It's been a lumpy business with regards to orders.
And looking at the pipeline there's San Francisco Mass Transit Authority there's Chester PA.
There's good opportunity so it's more related to timing of some of these orders and the lumpiness than less opportunities to go forward.
Let me add on that.
I think the first half we were -- Public Safety grew at double-digit rates and we're guiding on the full year now to be sort of high-single -- mid- to high-single digit rates at PSPC so that would imply the back half is going to slow down a little bit.
You have very good backlog.
That backlog is rolling through and we expect to see more orders coming in the back half.
But long term our confidence in Public Safety remains as it was before.
We do see good long-term growth opportunities there as well as margin expansion.
The next question comes from the line of Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just had a few if that's okay.
The recompete -- the IT Services recompete that you've mentioned in INS just a few thoughts or clarifications there.
Is it the back half of your fiscal year as in the next 6 months or the back half of calendar '13? And then can you maybe talk about sort of how many competitors were there last time and how many you expect to be there this time and sort of how aggressive folks might be coming after that? And I don't know if you could also remind us how large that is for you as well.
Okay.
Well let me take most of that and maybe Gary can augment whatever I'm missing.
It's -- the recompete I'm talking about is NGEN.
It's the recompete for the NMCI contract.
We had submitted our bid back in August early August of 2012 so it's been out there for some time.
We expect the award we've heard in March but every indication is that it's going to be sometime after March.
It has no impact on our fiscal '13 so there won't be any transition.
But through June -- I think our contract with NMCI was extended through September as I understand it.
So we're good through June and probably through September with the current NMCI contract as it stands today.
There's -- what the government looked for was 2 bids here.
They looked for a transport plus an enterprise bid and we're in partnership with CSC.
As you know we are the incumbent working with HP on the transport side.
And then a combined -- my understanding is that HP has bid a combined offering.
They did not bid it in pieces transport versus enterprise.
My understanding is we're the only ones that have done that.
I'm not sure how aggressively others have come at it.
I think it's us with CSC and HP that are in but there could be others.
But it is going to be a pretty aggressive contract and that's why we know NMCI margins as they stands today will come down.
And we're optimistic that I think we're well positioned and I think we'll end up winning.
The size of it today -- today NMCI is worth to us on a fiscal year basis around $100 million -- between $100 million and $110 million in that size range.
The way we understand it NGEN could be around $125 million to $150 million a year so it's a little bit bigger on a per-year basis at that lower margin.
So I think Gary those are the major points.
Yes.
You hit them all Bill.
Okay good.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Quilty with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> One more follow-up on the tactical radio business.
I think there's 2 other meaningful contracts on the horizon the MNVR and SRW Appliqué.
Can you give us an update on the timing of those contract awards and to the degree you can where you think you fit competitively either on a product offering or pricing strategies? And I guess as a second question the status of the 2-channel radio integration for the Manpack.
Okay.
Well let me take the MNVR.
Maybe Gary can take the SRW.
On the MNVR we submitted a proposal for MNVR back in October of last year.
Our product is in testing today.
We expect an award in the May timeframe.
Again it could shift out a little bit.
Our best guess today is a May award.
Delivery we understand to be again sometime in early spring of 2014 so around April May timeframe of 2014.
There is -- the initial part of MNVR we think is about 2 500 radios.
The overall size of the contract will be $140 million $150 million plus or minus.
To the best of our knowledge we have GD as a competitor in there.
We think Northrop with Exelis is in.
We think BAE may have something in the fight.
We don't know where Raytheon is with MAINGATE.
But I actually think we're very very well positioned on MNVR and I'm very optimistic that we're going to prevail and win MNVR.
And maybe Gary can say a couple of words on SRW.
Yes.
In the SRW Appliqué Chris there was an RFP out in October.
Expectations are: Award kind of any time here in this timeframe February; looking for a March delivery.
Not a big impact to our fiscal year kind of less than $10 million in the fiscal year from that application.
And on the Manpack look the RFP is not out yet so -- but I will assure you we'll have an offering that's going to be very very competitive.
It's going to meet the specification and we're going to go after that very very aggressively.
So I think I'm pretty confident around what's going to happen with the Manpack.
We'll have offering that meets the spec.
Thank you.
Okay.
All right with that we will wrap it up and I thank everyone for joining us today.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Quarter 3 2013 Harris Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Matthew and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Pamela Padgett Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed ma'am.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Harris' Third Quarter Fiscal 2013 Earnings Call.
I'm Pamela Padgett and on the call today is Bill Brown President and CEO; and Gary McArthur Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
And before we get started a few words on forward-looking statements.
In the course of this teleconference management may make forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements involve assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those statements.
For more information and discussion of such assumptions risks and uncertainties please see the press release and filings made by Harris with the SEC.
In addition in our press release and on this teleconference and the related presentation we will discuss certain financial measures and information that are non-GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation to the comparable GAAP measures is included in the tables of our press release and on the Investor Relations section of our website which is www.harris.com.
A replay of this call will also be available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
And with that Bill I'll turn the call over to you.
Okay.
Well thank you Pam and welcome to our third quarter fiscal 2013 earnings call.
Our third quarter results were in line with our preliminary release issued April 11 and significantly weaker than previously expected primarily due to U.S.
and international tactical radio procurement delays.
Since our second quarter earnings call U.S.
government funding constraints experienced under the continuing resolution were magnified when sequestration was triggered.
The resulting slowdown in spending was felt across all of our government businesses but most significantly in Tactical Communications where the softness in our DoD business was exacerbated by the delay of key international awards that slipped into the fourth quarter or possibly early next fiscal year.
Additionally operating performance in Integrated Network Solutions did not meet our expectations as a result of a delay in an important software release in commercial healthcare and slower revenue growth in CapRock Communications.
Now turning to Slides 3 and 4 in the presentation.
Earnings per share was $1.12 down 21% from the prior year non-GAAP EPS of $1.42.
Revenue was down 12% compared to the prior year with book-to-bill of 0.94% and funded backlog was down 2% sequentially and up 3% over the prior year.
We expect the fiscal environment to remain challenging and we are implementing further company-wide restructuring and cost-reduction actions in the fourth quarter.
These actions are anticipated to generate annualized savings of $40 million to $50 million net of what we expect to pass along to our government customers.
We are reducing our workforce by about 3% including a 7% reduction in indirect employment and about a 10% reduction in our executive population.
We also plan to reduce our facility footprint by about 200 000 square feet and have announced an early redemption of $300 million in debt.
These reductions are in addition to previous actions taken to address the slower government spending environment.
Following these actions employment will be down by about 6% since the end of calendar 2011 including a 20% reduction in our executive population.
We also continue to advance our operational excellence agenda to improve efficiency streamline processes and lower cost with productivity savings this year tracking well above our previously announced target of $75 million.
Free cash flow was solid in the quarter at $185 million bringing us to $382 million for the first 3 quarters of fiscal 2013 up 24% versus prior year and 96% of net income.
We continue to tighten down on capital spending and now estimate a range of $185 million to $195 million versus $234 million spent last year and we continue to return cash to shareholders repurchasing $160 million of stock in the quarter with plans to repurchase an additional $140 million of stock by the end of our fiscal year.
Based on third quarter results we have recalibrated our full-year guidance to reflect the current environment as we now see it.
The passing of the appropriations bill has been meaningful triggering the process for government fiscal '13 funding to work its way down to individual programs and the release of the President's 2014 budget has provided insight into spending priorities which appear to align well with our capabilities.
However we have yet to see how sequestration will impact specific line items and the political horse trading behind the scenes to get a budget pass if it happens has just begun.
As a result we decided to provide fiscal 2014 guidance when we report our full-year results in July when we hope to have a little more clarity around government spending.
I'll come back with a few comments before we open the call to questions.
So now let me turn it over to Gary to discuss segment results.
Gary? Thank you Bill and good morning.
Moving to segment results on Slide 5 revenue for RF Communications was $418 million and declined 22% compared to $538 million in the prior year.
Orders for the segment totaled $486 million and book-to-bill was 1.16.
In Tactical Communications revenue was $276 million and declined 31%.
Tactical Communication orders were $297 million.
Backlog was $582 million and book-to-bill was 1.08.
While orders in both DoD and international were down from the prior year both DoD and international book-to-bills were greater than 1.
In the quarter we received a $26 million order from the U.S.
Marine Corps and a $19 million order from the U.S.
Navy for Falcon III radios as well as a $10 million order from the Department of Defense the first order for a new ISR product that combines wideband Tactical Communications and signals intelligence.
Combining these capabilities results in a more powerful solution and a multifunctional device.
It also reduces the overall weight a soldier carries.
In the third quarter Harris was awarded a $500 million increase in the ceiling value of our IDIQ contract with the U.S.
Army Communications-Electronics Command or CECOM.
The contract supports our foreign military sales and is encouraging as we have already booked orders against it.
Significant international tactical radio orders highlighted in our earnings release included $40 million from Brunei $29 million from a country in Asia $23 million from Australia and $14 million from a country in Africa.
Several international opportunities have taken longer to book than expected pushing into later this fiscal year or some possibly into next fiscal year including Iraq Saudi Arabia the Philippines and Brazil all of which are excellent opportunities in the tens of millions of dollars.
In addition the next $50 million award from a country in Central Asia which is part of a longer -- excuse me a larger $400 million total opportunity mentioned last quarter is winding its way through the FMS process and nearing completion.
The 12- to 18-month international opportunity pipeline is $2.4 billion with over $1 billion in the proposal or closure phases.
This compares to $2.4 billion total pipeline with $800 million in the proposal or closure phases at the end of the second quarter.
While slower than we would have liked a number of the opportunities are very mature and nearing completion like those just mentioned as well as others such as Poland and the country in Africa.
The U.S.
pipeline is $1 billion with $500 million in the proposal or closure phases.
The pipeline is smaller than the second quarter $1.2 billion with $600 million in the proposal or closure phases.
The reduction reflects the slowdown in spending and in particular the schedule delays in awarding the JTRS manpack Rifleman Radio and MNVR modernization opportunities.
These have been reduced from $400 million in the second quarter pipeline to a total of about $200 million in our current pipeline only 1/3 of which relates to HMS Manpack and Rifleman Radios.
In Public Safety and Professional Communications revenue growth increased 2% to $142 million.
Orders almost doubled and book-to-bill was 1.3.
Public Safety orders in the quarter included $42 million from Chester County Pennsylvania $19 million from Spotsylvania County Virginia to deploy P25 emergency communications systems $23 million from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania for a 2-year maintenance agreement extension to support the statewide radio system and manage the network operations center and a $6 million order in the newly awarded $17 million contract from the U.S.
Marine Corps to replace the existing land mobile radio infrastructure at all 7 installations in the Eastern United States.
This is the third land radio -- land mobile radio delivery order the company has received in the last year from the Marine Corps and provides interoperability with civilian agencies which is critical in disaster relief and in other Homeland Security events.
Operating income for the RF Communications segment was $116 million.
Cost reductions our focus on operational excellence and reduced discretionary spending allowed us to achieve 27.8% operating margin in the quarter despite a 22% revenue decline.
Year-over-year margin decline was driven by volume-related factory absorption and investment in higher R&amp;D which was up 6% for the segment and up 9% in tactical.
Turning now to Slide 6 in Integrated Network Solutions.
The third quarter revenue decreased 6% to $365 million.
Revenue growth in CapRock of 4% and in Healthcare Solutions of 6% was more than offset by a decline in IT services revenue of 10%.
In CapRock revenue was flat in the government market up slightly in energy with the majority of the revenue growth coming from maritime.
In Healthcare Solutions revenue in the government market increased while commercial revenue lagged as a result of the software release delay.
The software is currently being tested in a hospital environment and the new expected release date is now first quarter of fiscal 2014.
We said last quarter that the profitability for healthcare in 2013 hinged on this software release and this pushes our target for reaching full-year profitability into early fiscal 2014.
We're still making good progress reducing losses each quarter with the year-to-date down about half compared to last year.
Segment orders were down 34% as a result of delayed government awards and IT services and CapRock.
In the health care market the joint effort between the DoD and VA called iEHR to provide a single electronic healthcare record is being reconsidered and is causing some procurement delays.
This effort will eventually provide new opportunities and our credentials in this area are strong.
For example we've been executing well on a major interoperability contract that we won last year and have started 2 initial DoD medical center deployments in Texas and Virginia.
Under this multi-year $80 million healthcare integration contract we developed and are now deploying a service-oriented architecture suite that will support information sharing and enable new types of clinical collaboration and integration of legacy data.
This will be the largest healthcare interoperability system of its kind ever built.
In addition Healthcare Solutions was awarded in the quarter a 4-year contract with a potential value of $38 million from the VA to supply enterprise data warehouse services.
With this contract we have leveraged our strong competitive position in providing interoperability solutions and moved upstream giving us the opportunity to provide business intelligence capabilities and predictive analytics.
Key orders at CapRock included $24 million from several U.S.
government customers under the DISA Future Commercial Satellite Communication Services Acquisition program and $17 million follow-on order in maritime from CSnet International for the continued operation and maintenance of a subsea ocean observatory in the Mediterranean Sea.
In IT services we received a $24 million order from the Canadian Department of National Defense for the Avionics Optimized Weapon Systems Support Program for the CF-18 Hornet fleet.
In Integrated Network Solutions segment operating income was $30 million compared with prior year GAAP operating income of $22 million and non-GAAP of $33 million.
Operating performance improvement in Healthcare Solutions was more than offset by an operating income decline in IT services as a result of lower sales volume.
In CapRock operating performance improved somewhat after excluding expenses associated with third quarter cost reductions.
Moving to Slide 7.
Revenue in government communications was $442 million decreasing 6% from the prior year.
Slightly higher revenue from civil customers and flat revenue from national customers was more than offset by a mid-teen decrease in revenue from Department of Defense.
Operating income was $67 million compared with $64 million in the prior year and operating margin was 15.2% as a result of strong program performance on fixed-price contracts including excellent performance on satellite programs.
As previously announced we completed the sale of the Broadcast Communications business in early February.
Turning to Slide 8.
Free cash flow was $185 million versus $152 million last year.
Capital expenditures were $49 million compared to $53 million in the prior year.
During the quarter we repurchased about 3.4 million shares of our common stock for a total cash outlay of $160 million.
Year-to-date repurchases totaled $260 million.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 26.9% and was favorably impacted by the reenacted R&amp;D investment tax credit as well as favorable tax settlements.
Moving to Slide 9 as previously announced we updated guidance to reflect budget uncertainty and delays in international tactical radio awards.
For total Harris revenue is now expected to be down 6% to 7% and EPS in the range of $4.60 to $4.70.
In RF Communications our previous guidance of 7% to 9% lower is now 12% to 14% lower.
Operating margin is now expected to be around 29% including 70 to 80 basis points impact of higher R&amp;D expense.
In Integrated Network Solutions we've lowered our revenue guidance from a decline of 0% to 1% to a decline of 4% to 5% to reflect further weakness in government markets and slower-than-expected growth in commercial markets.
Operating margin is now expected to be about 8% for the segment.
In Government Communications Systems we expect revenue to be flat to slightly down compared to previous expectations of 1% to 2% growth.
As a result of continued excellent program execution and continued favorable program product mix we expect margin to remain around 14.5%.
We now expect our tax rate for the fiscal year to be approximately 31%.
We continue to scrutinize capital spending.
Our revised guidance for CapEx is now $185 million to $195 million and we now expect to generate free cash flow in a range of $500 million to $550 million lower than our previous guidance of $590 million to $650 million as a result of lower income slower pay by the U.S.
government and cash restructuring charges.
Based on revised guidance free cash flow to non-GAAP net income will still be around $100%.
With that let me turn it back to you Bill.
Okay well thank you Gary.
During this time of transition in the U.S.
government market we're focused on the things that we control.
We're implementing further cost reduction actions to position our company for success and we'll continue to adapt as the market dictates adjusting our cost structure accordingly while investing in long-term growth.
Our focus is also on execution.
Our initiatives in Healthcare Solutions in CapRock are not producing the revenue growth and improved margins as quickly as expected.
The integration has been difficult and progress has been choppy as the businesses still lack maturity in systems and processes.
We have new leadership at healthcare and at the INS segment level.
We've mobilized the best talent from across the company and we're focused on rapidly addressing these issues.
The healthcare market and the energy and maritime market addressed by CapRock are strong in growing and we're committed to building the talent and skill set to support these businesses as part of a broader multi-year strategy of excessing growing commercial markets and creating a larger international footprint.
A transformation to this scale have its challenges like we're currently experiencing but we remain confident about our ultimate success in executing our strategy.
We are committed throughout our company to operational excellence continuous improvement and increasing customer value and doing these things well would drive superior shareholder returns.
And now with that I'd like to ask the operator to open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Carter Copeland of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you might characterize the -- what the guidance for RF and tactical implies for the mix between international and domestic revenues for the year and how you see that business exiting domestic versus international in the fourth quarter.
Well we knew that coming into the year that international would be higher than the DoD business on orders on sales and that remains to be the case throughout the full year.
Research Division</strong> Is it materially different in the fourth quarter because of the order delays? I mean I think a little bit better than half.
I'm just trying to figure out is there a difference in the trends of domestic versus international specifically in the fourth quarter due to the slippage of the international orders that you're talking about for the remainder of the year? I mean we expect the fourth quarter is going to be pretty strong on the international business and I think consistent in the fourth quarter as like for the full year probably 8 to 10 points higher in international than it is on the DoD side.
Research Division</strong> And how do you think about the risk around some of these slippages to the right? Obviously budget has a lot of pressures.
How are you thinking about the risk that these orders may not slide and just slide to the right but may not materialize in the amounts that you were previously thinking? I know you highlighted a little bit of degradation in the pipeline but how do you think about the risk that maybe these don't just slide they come in at much lower amounts than what you were thinking originally? Yes well look we -- our forecast in our guidance as we see it today is based on a bottoms-up approach and we've spoken with all of our customers.
We do this as we normally do program by program opportunity by opportunity and obviously we scrubbed this pretty closely as carefully as best as we can knowing the information that's at our fingertips.
It seems on the DoD side the team is quite confident that with the appropriations bill that's been signed the procurement freeze that we've seen so far over the course of the last several months is starting to fall.
In fact the dialogue that we're seeing with DoD customers is showing a little more confidence and optimism today than really just another -- a month or 2 ago.
On the international side we are seeing good progress really good movement on some opportunities.
Gary talked about a number of them in Iraq principally the MoD Saudi Arabia Philippines Poland country in Central Asia.
Not all of those Carter have to book and ship in order to hit our guidance.
And I think the $500 million increase in the CECOM IDIQ I think is a very positive sign for us overall in the support of the U.S.
government for certain international markets.
So we believe our forecast our guidance here for the fourth quarter is appropriately calibrated and hedged and that we feel comfortable that we can hit the guidance range that we set for the full year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just as a follow-up briefly on INS I mean there's a lot of moving pieces here.
I know you had talked about expecting some margin pressure and hits due to the NMCI contract but also as you look through the rest of the businesses and healthcare and that breakeven target moving a little bit and CapRock growing a little bit slower and just in general your commentary across those businesses how do you think about the long-term margin target for that business and the ability to -- and timing to get to double-digit margins there? Our long-term target for INS hasn't changed from before.
We still see ourselves getting into the low teens over all.
We do know that in the IT services business.
Margins will come down.
They've been very solid for the year.
We've been pleasantly surprised with the performance of the team and taking out costs as revenue changes and margins have stayed in the pretty solid double-digit rate through the course of fiscal '13 and we feel pretty good about that.
That being said it's not materialized as strongly as we had hoped in both healthcare and CapRock and instead of the several hundred basis point improvement in CapRock margins for the year it's quite a bit lower than that.
We're not pleased with that but that doesn't change our long-term perspective that CapRock should be a low- to mid-teens type margin business comparable with other people in the space.
And healthcare should also be a low- to mid-teens maybe in the high teens ROS business over time.
So I wouldn't lock myself into today in terms of the timeframe to get to that but I don't change my perspective today that INS as a whole can get to the low-teens over time.
Research Division</strong> But the targets are unchanged? Not changed no.
Your next question comes from the line of Yair Reiner from Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> So first just Bill from the last question for tactical how much business do you need to book in turn in the quarter to hit your guidance for the fourth quarter? In our guidance for the fourth quarter we need to turn a significant amount of orders here in the months of May and June.
We have a significant amount of the business already in backlog and as Bill had mentioned we're expecting a bigger increase in orders in revenue coming from international than we are from the domestic side.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in GCS you mentioned that the civil business is holding up pretty well.
We've all heard about the cuts the FAA.
Have you seen any change in your civil businesses since sequestration began to kick in and I guess the effects of the sequestration have begun to bite a bit harder? Or do you think you're kind of steady state right now? Interestingly we've -- both in what we see in fiscal '13 and then also what we see in the President's budget for fiscal '14 we feel pretty good about both our weather programs and the FAA.
In fact on the weather side it looks like the weather systems in general was well-supported.
Those are funding for -- next year's up 19%.
The FAA programs are well-supported.
FTI which is our -- the backbone we provide for the FAA is well-funded.
There's $1 billion in the budget for the NextGen programs.
So we've seen no impact in fiscal '13 and we're not expecting any impact going into fiscal '14.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then one last question about the restructuring.
Clearly you're taking a lot of costs out.
I imagine a part of that is you found areas where maybe you had unnecessary costs.
A part of that is I imagine taking out some capacity.
So to what extent can we read into this that you see lower potential business going forward as well and that you need to resize the overall business for that and how should we think about that? Well I think we're taking out cost in order to address what we know as a declining revenue environment.
It's reflected in our fiscal '13 guidance that we provided today.
We see opportunities across lots of areas in the company including in our executive population our indirects.
We've taken a harder look at our facilities some offices around the D.C.
Virginia area but also a few larger facilities and we're taking action to address the cost structure that we happen to have.
I think it's going to position us very very well for success going forward and it will allow us to reinvest and continue to invest in long-term growth of the company as we've been doing so far year-to-date on growth initiatives and R&amp;D spending.
Your next question comes from the line of Pete Skibitski from Drexel Hamilton.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess on RF on Tactical Comms I'm just wondering.
I guess the nature of that business it's pretty quick turnaround but I wonder if you can characterize the revenue decline.
Was it across-the-board in U.S.
DoD? Was it service-specific? Any more color that you can add on the revenue decline? Across the DoD business I think it would be fair to say that most of the decline occurred in the U.S.
Army over the course of year-to-date as well as we expect for the full year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then can you -- I guess at this point it's -- some of these upcoming excuse me competitions are fairly critical.
I wonder if you can update us on the timing of some of the big ones the JTRS manpack the MNVR and whatever else you want to mention appliqué or Rifleman Radio? Yes sure.
On the manpack and the Rifleman it appears that both of those programs are getting delayed by about 6 months.
That's the latest information that I have.
It looks like the RFP is going to come out sometime in the August September time frame depending upon the manpack or the Rifleman.
The award will be early next year in the February March time frame and delivery will be sort of late spring or early summer in the May June July time frame for both of the rifleman and the manpack.
The MNVR does appear to be tracking closer to the current schedule that we last talked about.
Delayed by about 1 month we still expect an award in June certainly the date before the end of our fiscal year.
And I understand deliveries on that program will occur early in calendar '14 like around February time frame.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
I'll just take one more I guess on capital deployment.
Guys you're retiring $300 million in debt.
Should we expect share repurchases to slow going forward for a while as a result of that deployment? And also wondering about acquisitions divestitures kind of how you're thinking about that right now? What we said during the prepared remarks is that we do intend to continue to buy back stock going through the fourth quarter another $140 million our current target.
That would put us to $400 million total for the year exactly in line with what we had committed before $200 million of our "regular" buyback $200 million from the proceed of selling BCD the broadcast business.
And going into next fiscal year we don't see our capital deployment strategy to be deviating substantially from where we're at today.
Next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> On the Tactical Communications margins you guys don't disclose them discreetly but it looks like they were probably in the 37% range.
Just was wondering either Bill or Gary if you could just comment help provide some color around the different moving parts that drive that and how important is volume? What's going on with pricing and then mix? I know it's an open-ended question but margins were down not surprisingly given the volume but were down quite a bit year-on-year.
Just trying to gauge what the moving parts look like.
Yes I think the -- a couple of things.
One we -- in everything that we do in today's environment we always get price pressure and we push on that very hard.
We continue to sell value in the value of our products and I think we've been successful in holding the line on pricing.
What we have seen in our margins overall in RF and importantly in the tactical business are 2 things.
One is because of the volume deterioration we're starting to run in the factory absorption problems and that's the one thing that did ding us in the quarter.
The other is continued investment in R&amp;D.
And then for the full year we see that that's probably 70 80 basis points of impact at the RF segment level.
We continue to invest importantly in the tactical business and those are the 2 I think principal factors that are impacting our margins in tactical communications.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So as you look at the profile rather than year-on-year if you look sequentially I mean there's nothing about -- considering that your book-to-bill was a little over 1 here and it looks like your volume in Q4 should be in line with Q3 or better and you're looking for orders to pick back up you wouldn't expect really any more adverse reaction to your margins unless volume were to again deteriorate? No we don't.
We guided for the year 29%.
That certainly has an implication for what the ROS is what the segment is in Q4.
It does hinge on volume as you just pointed out.
We know the investment that we're making and making in Q4 as well.
So at the moment we don't think it has any further downside.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just over on government comms your margins there continue to be better and better hitting 15% here.
Could you I guess give a little more context around EAC or cum catch-up adjustments and how those have been performing? And maybe I know you're not giving guidance for next year yet but a little more color as to how you're thinking about that margin performance going into -- going forward.
Well we're thrilled with the performance of the GCS team and they've done a fantastic job.
They're executing very very well on a number of different dimensions and we're thrilled with the margin performance in the quarter.
That being said I think we pointed out to you before that that high level of ROS is not sustainable.
It's going to come down and we'll probably be adjusting as we go into fiscal '14.
It probably won't be any different than what we've talked about in June of last year but that is a very special margin rate that we happen to hit.
On the EACs we'll be showing in the Q that our EACs this year are about $16 million in the quarter it's pretty consistent with the EAC adjustments in the quarter last year.
So year-over-year not a big driver of margin performance.
I think it's truly just very good execution by the team at GCS.
Research Division</strong> Very good.
And then Bill if you don't mind just one more on back to RF and the international on tactical.
It seems like there's been -- there's a number of things that have slipped and it seems like it's getting a little better here.
I know it's a lot of different countries and you named a whole bunch of the important ones but is there anything bigger picture whether it's Department of State Department of Defense Afghanistan? What's going on with the conflict that's really underpinning a lot of the movement in the order stream? Or is this really all just sort of one-off different moving pieces? And give us the latest I guess on -- if there are any larger factors at play here what -- how you're thinking about them.
There's really not -- I wouldn't say a lot of larger factors.
Obviously as we spoke last time for the country in Central Asia that is supported by the FMS process there had been some sand in the gears in that process.
We see that starting to break up a little bit and more progress being made.
I'm pretty confident that we're not losing share.
We're confident that the market opportunities we've talked about before remain.
The pipeline is still very robust at $2.4 billion.
Joe it's really just the timing that's very very difficult to predict.
Keep in mind we're coming off of a very strong 2012.
Orders and revenue were very strong last year up double digits and to record levels.
In February of this year I was in the Middle East at the trade show and met with the dealers and then customers of all of the customers that we've just spoken about Iraq Saudi UAE Jordan Afghanistan Pakistan.
And look I think we're very well-positioned with excellent products and a very strong reputation in all of those markets.
Wideband still is a very very large untapped opportunity in international markets and what I observed when I was there through direct conversation is some of the competitors we play against in the international markets have pulled back a little bit on investment in new products and in fact we're throttling up investing in new products new capabilities to expand the addressable market and I think we're very very well-positioned.
It's really just a matter of timing.
I do hope that you'll see some good announcements coming forth from us in the fourth quarter based on the pipeline that we see maturing in international.
Your next question comes from the line of Gautam Khanna from Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Bill you mentioned I think in your opening remarks being somewhat pleased with the DoD's priorities as they were expressed in the '14 request.
I'm just wondering if you could elaborate on this because when we look at some of the radio line items nearly all were kind of revised downwards from the fiscal '13 request.
So where do you see kind of the alignment shaping out well? Yes.
The -- look my comment was really more around the overall budget that the President put forth.
I think that's very encouraging.
It did give a lot of insights on priorities and I think that is aligned pretty well with our capabilities.
I referenced a bit about some of the positives on weather systems and the impact on GOES-R the FAA programs which we feel very very good about and we do a lot of work with the VA and IT services for the VA is up double-digit rates.
I think on -- perhaps on the other side of the coin maybe a little bit more balance on tactical radios.
You're right it's a bit mixed.
SOCOM Air Force Marine Corps funding is down.
Army modernization is supported although it really is at a slower rate but I'm pleased to see the commitment to modernization.
I'm pleased to see the commitment to open competition.
I'm thrilled that the manpack RDT&amp;E has been brought down from $120 million just last year to $5 million.
I think these are all very very important steps that have been taken and I think work in our favor in many ways over the long term.
I do see national intelligence programs funding coming down a little bit.
So I think there are some things that are positive in President's budget.
There's also some things that I guess provide a bit more balance.
So for us like really all other Americans there is something for everyone to not like in what came out in the President's budget but we recognize as everyone else does that it's pre-sequestration.
It's pre-negotiation on entitlements and on revenue.
So I think there's a lot of ground to cover between now and a fiscal '14 budget if that happens over the course of the summer.
So we're just being prudent on where we speak today.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up if I may can you comment on sort of the duration of the backlog and how that's evolved over the last year? Because obviously you had north of 560 in backlog entering the quarter which would have covered kind of flat sequential sales you'd think.
So I'm just curious how do we think about the delivery timing on some of the orders already booked.
Gautam this is Gary.
I don't know if the duration of the backlog has changed materially obviously in the backlog had included some products and services for Australia that were expected over time country in Northern Africa as well as ongoing program we're into different phases of that.
So some of that is expected over time.
And the backlog did come in slightly higher in tactical compared sequentially to where it was.
So overall I wouldn't say the duration of the backlog changed materially from what we had expected.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I might ask one more I'm sorry.
Last year I think you had an Investor Day and it doesn't sound like you have one this year where you're offered kind of at least a preliminary deal on the September quarter.
And I just wondered if you could give us given the restructuring and all the moving pieces I mean should we expect that to be kind of the lightest for the year and sequentially down from Q4? Or how do you just directionally think of the profile in '14? We're not -- I mean as I mentioned in the remarks we're not going to provide any fiscal '14 guidance today.
There's a budget.
There's some visibility we still like to see from U.S.
government funding.
We will provide some guidance towards the end of July when we publish our full-year '13 results.
But like I think for us and everybody else I think our first quarter which is the last quarter the government fiscal year '13 is likely to be challenging for everybody.
We are moving fast on the restructuring.
Much of the things that we're doing will occur in the course of the fourth quarter.
I hope that will give us tailwind going into the fiscal year but a lot hinges on the behavior of the government customers and we'll shed some more light on the full year as well as the balance over the course of the year when we speak at the end of July.
Your next question comes from the line of Josh Sullivan from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> For the CapRock business can you expand on the slower-than-expected revenue growth? I mean the Gulf rig count activity appears to be a little bit better than expected.
Was the weakness coming from land-based government communications? Or has there been any sort of technological shift in offshore use of SATCOM versus say plain fiber optic cable? No the -- look on the -- in CapRock the maritime business performed we think very very well.
Royal Caribbean was a key driver of that.
We're performing very very well.
All 33 34 boats that we're doing for Royal Caribbean are done and operating and I think that customer is very very pleased.
So we've seen good growth on the maritime side.
The government side was relatively weak.
We think that that is market related.
On energy it was weak.
It was disappointing.
From my perspective it was due principally to execution.
I think in some ways we stubbed our toe a little bit on the energy side and in our responsiveness to our customers.
And I want to reassure you we've got people focused on that.
We're going to get that fixed.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just on the Healthcare Solutions business I mean how is the rightsizing of the commercial business progressing? I know you have this delay here but are you still investing in that vertical for growth? Are you looking at more at harvesting at this point? No we're not going to be harvesting.
I think this is not an issue of cost takeout.
It's about getting a piece of software right and we got a good set of team that's pushing on this.
We will launch it in the first quarter of fiscal '14.
From what I have seen and heard with large commercial healthcare operators who have seen the software that we're going to be releasing.
They were enthusiastic about it.
They're excited about it.
I have to say it's a very complicated piece of software which is what has caused us some difficulties but this is an investment.
We are going to move forward with it and I think ultimately we're going to be very successful in the commercial healthcare side.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Quilty from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow-up on your comment about the R&amp;D investments in the RF business.
Can you clarify is that a stepped-up level of investment from what you had planned perhaps a year ago? And if so is it being driven by the tactical radio or the first responders side of the business? And is it primarily a new product or is it pushed into new product areas? Chris this is Gary.
We definitely have stepped up the R&amp;D investment as we talked about doing a year-over-year compare.
A lot of the investment is in the Tactical Communications area.
It has to do with building the 2 channel manpack making sure the wave forms are where they need to be on WNW.
So a lot of investment is going in there as well as we have increased investment in public safety where we're continuing to invest in LTE.
We expect that market to take longer to come to fruition but it is an important area for us and we're investing there as well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Speaking of wave forms have you ever made progress on the ANW2 and getting that accepted into the repository? We continue to work on that.
We do know that that is very important for the U.S.
Army and really the services in general in particular the U.S.
Army to have a nonproprietary waveforms in their fielding requirements and we continue to push on this and we'll update you as we make progress.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And a follow-up on the Public Safety business can you just give us sort of an update on where you think you stand with that business both in terms of your product offering your geographical presence and the overall spending environment for the local municipal government market relative to the federal? Okay Chris this is Gary again.
In the public safety market looking across our product line we think we have quality products.
We think there's additional room for taking out costs of those products but we expect to be more competitive over time in the terminal fees.
I think on these systems and the open architecture I think we're extremely competitive with Motorola in that space.
And in looking at the government market right now we're seeing that state and local growing mid-single digits.
So we're seeing opportunities there to continue to increase our revenue with the market growth as well as taking share from Motorola.
Your final question comes from the line of Pete Skibitski of Drexel Hamilton.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just to follow-up on that last one public safety.
It seemed like you had a fantastic first half of the year and it seemed like revenue kind of slowed in the quarter and I think you have a really tough comp in the fourth quarter this year.
So I'm just wondering overall do you still expect the type of growth for the full year in public safety that you were thinking earlier in the year or is the market slowing there? We still see very good growth for the year in public safety.
We think it's going to be up mid-single digits.
The orders in Q3 were very strong and as Gary pointed out was up more than double in the quarter 1.33 book-to-bill.
I think the outlook for that business continues to be very very positive.
We will see a slightly weaker second half than we saw in the first half.
We saw a very strong first half result but the backlog is solid.
The pipeline is large it's healthy.
I think we're doing a very very good job winning large program opportunities in the marketplace.
Those as you know could be lumpy.
We went for a number of quarters with book-to-bill less than 1.
I think we need to and will do better on the flow business which is the terminal side of the business.
But in general I think we feel still pretty good about growth this year as well as long-term growth possibilities in Public Safety.
I think there's lots of opportunities to grow and improve margins in that business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and just one last one if I could.
I apologize if you spoke to this already but on the cost reductions in the $40 million to $50 million annual savings is that company-wide? Or is it focused on RF in particular? And then as a corollary the previously announced charges $65 million to $115 million have you narrowed those and are they going to be all booked at the corporate level? Well that is company-wide and it's across all the businesses as well as at corporate.
The charges will likely be booked I think Gary at the corporate level.
And the delta between the low-end and the high-end is just potential impairments that we might have to take including in the healthcare business in the fourth quarter.
That is yet to be determined and that's the delta between the low-end and the high-end of the cost range.
I think that wraps us up.
Thank you everyone for joining us and we'll see you next quarter.
Thank you.
Thanks for joining ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes your presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Harris Corporation's Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
My name is Sue and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Pamela Padgett Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed ma'am.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our fourth quarter fiscal 2013 earnings call.
I'm Pamela Padgett and on the call today is Bill Brown President and CEO; and Gary McArthur Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
And before we get started a few words about forward-looking statements.
In the course of this teleconference management may make forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements involve assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those statements.
For more information and a discussion of such assumptions risks and uncertainties please see the press release and filings made by Harris with the SEC.
In addition in our press release and on this teleconference and the related presentation we will discuss certain financial measures and information that are non-GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation to the comparable GAAP measures is included in the tables of our press release and on the Investor Relations section of our website which is www.harris.com.
A replay of this call will also be available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
And with that Bill I'll turn the call over to you.
Okay well thank you Pam and good morning everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter earnings call.
Fiscal '13 was a challenging year but we accomplished a lot.
When we started the year we promised to take out costs to match the tough government spending environment and we did just that.
We said we would maximize free cash flow by doing things like ratcheting down capital spending which we reduced by 24% contributing to record free cash flow in the year.
And we committed to deploy capital more effectively like returning more cash to shareholders which we did by using $400 million in cash to repurchase shares and by increasing the quarterly dividend 12% in fiscal '13 on top of a 32% increase in fiscal '12.
These efforts are reflected in the solid results we're reporting today and illustrated on pages 3 and 4.
In the fourth quarter revenue was down as expected by about 5% to $1.36 billion with non-GAAP EPS of $1.41 about flat with the prior year.
Fourth quarter earnings were a bit stronger than expected as a result of ongoing cost reduction efforts including fourth quarter restructuring actions and favorable product mix in RF Communications where we also had a $0.04 onetime benefit from the cumulative effect of an accounting correction in the timing of cost recognition.
By executing the restructuring actions announced in April faster than expected and expanding their scope somewhat we generated additional savings in the quarter amounting to $0.07 pickup versus the guidance we provided back in April.
For the quarter restructuring asset impairment and debt prepayment costs were $127 million and with the exception of facility consolidations are largely completed.
These actions are now expected to generate annualized cost savings of $60 million versus the $40 million to $50 million originally anticipated.
Fourth quarter free cash flow was also substantially better than expected at $273 million bringing us to a strong $655 million for fiscal '13 up 6% versus prior year and 119% of non-GAAP net income.
Orders were solid in the quarter at $1.43 billion down from prior year about 105% of revenue ending the year with funded backlog up 2% sequentially and 4% year-over-year.
In RF Communications we were particularly encouraged by the strong new orders momentum in the international tactical radio market.
Tactical book-to-bill was 1.49 and greater than 1 in both international and U.S.
markets and we ended the quarter with a substantial increase in tactical backlog.
The international tactical radio market is being driven by 2 factors a transition to wideband radios and demand for network systems solutions and Harris is at the forefront of both.
In the quarter we booked a $61 million order for wideband radios from Poland our largest single international Falcon III wideband order to date.
And on the systems front we booked our largest single order ever in the Middle East $79 million for an integrated command control and communications system that combines wideband tactical radios and 4G tactical cellular into a fully integrated system solution.
Our extensive line of international radios is designed to operate and interface well together and support a variety of technical requirements giving us a competitive advantage in international markets that require integrated solutions.
We're anticipating capturing additional systems opportunities in fiscal '14.
We also had solid wins in the DoD market in the quarter including a $38 million order from the Air Force for 2-channel Falcon III wideband radios.
And we successfully completed government tests delivering data messages using the wideband networking waveform WNW in our MNVR radio offering.
While JTRS radio procurements for the Army has slipped to the right we're encouraged that the major programs the manpack the Rifleman and MNVR are well supported in each of the committee markups of the GFY '14 authorization bill and we're hopeful about a favorable decision on MNVR in September.
We're also encouraged that the DoD is proceeding with an effort to replace the previously canceled JTRS airborne radio program known as AMF.
The new program Small Airborne Networking Radio or SANR has a potential value of about $700 million.
And we expect the RFP to be issued within the next few months and be awarded in late spring of 2015.
In Government Communications we added to our wins on Next-Gen which is the FAA's initiative to transform the National Airspace System.
Following the close of the quarter we were awarded a 7-year $150 million network services component of the previously won DCIS or Data Communications and Integrated Services program bringing the total contract value to $481 million.
Now if you remember DCIS will provide digital messaging services between air traffic towers and the cockpit.
And we'd made good progress on the program and are reaching agreement with 4 major airlines on DCIS equipage.
On our other major Next-Gen win the National Airspace Voice System program or NVS we're on track to install demo systems at FAA facilities in Atlantic City and in Oklahoma City within the next few months.
Now I mentioned progress in these programs because we're performing well and delivering real value to our customer as we need to especially in today's fiscal environment.
But it's also important because we're leveraging our strong capabilities and reputation with the FAA to broaden our reach in the global air traffic management market we pursue opportunities in areas such as Brazil Korea and India and in the global voice switch market.
And finally in the quarter we were encouraged by the rebound in CapRock's revenue growth to 9% contributing to high single-digit growth for the year and by the solid 5% growth in IT Services a good result in the current environment.
I would also add that we continued to reduce losses in Healthcare Solutions and made progress towards an important software release in Q1.
For the full fiscal year orders were down 4% revenue was down 6%.
Book-to-bill was 1.03 and non-GAAP EPS was down 6% to $4.90.
Now heading in fiscal '14 we're expecting an environment similar to this year with government operating under continuing resolutions and sequestration.
Every indication we've seen points to protracted negotiations with tax reform and the debt ceiling coming to the mix.
But whatever the outcome we'll continue to focus on executing our strategy improving our business performance and delivering value to our customers and our shareholders.
And with that I'll turn it over to Gary to comment on segment results and guidance for 2014.
Thank you Bill and good morning.
Moving to segment results on Slide 5.
Revenue for RF Communications was $501 million and declined 14% compared to $584 million in the prior year.
Orders for this segment totaled $646 million and were up 22%.
Book-to-bill was 1.29.
In Tactical Communications revenues was $336 million declining 18%.
Tactical Communications orders were $498 million and were up 40%.
Book-to-bill was 1.49 and backlog increased significantly to $743 million.
Book-to-bill was greater than 1 in both international and U.S.
markets.
International tactical radio orders included $79 million from a country in the Middle East $61 million from Poland $55 million from a country in Africa $23 million from another country in the Middle East and $39 million from several customers in Brazil; exceptional order performance in International.
DoD orders for Falcon III wideband radios included $38 million from the Air Force $36 million from Special Operations Command and $20 million from the Marine Corps.
The 12- to 18-month International opportunity pipeline is $2.2 billion with over $800 million in the proposal or closure phases.
This compares to 3Q's $2.4 billion with over $1 billion in the proposal or closure phases.
The U.S.
pipeline is about $1 billion with $400 million in the proposal or closure phases.
This compares to 3Q's $1 billion with $500 million in the proposal or closure phases.
While there have been delays in the awarding of the JTRS manpack Rifleman Radio and MNVR modernization opportunities we believe our proven track record with the most widely deployed family of wideband networking radios our recent successes demonstrating the JTRS wideband networking waveform and our new 2-channel manpack radio solutions bolster our competitive position on these procurements.
In Public Safety and Professional Communications project delays and unexpected lower terminal sales resulted in revenue declining 6% to $165 million orders down 14% and book-to-bill of 0.9.
Public Safety orders in the quarter included $17 million from Los Angeles County $13 million from the United Arab Emirates a $50 million follow-on order from the San Francisco Municipal Transport Authority (sic) [San Francisco Municipal Transportation Authority] bringing orders to date to $47 million under that $85 million contract.
Non-GAAP operating income for RF Communications segment was $185 million.
A favorable product mix cost reductions savings from operational excellence initiatives and a $7 million benefit from the cumulative effect of an accounting correction in the timing of cost recognition on tactical radio programs allowed us to achieve a 36.9% non-GAAP operating margin in the quarter.
Turning now to Slide 6 Integrated Network Solutions.
Fourth quarter revenue increased 6% to $402 million driven by growth across this segment in CapRock Communications Healthcare Solutions and IT Services.
In CapRock revenue was up slightly in the government market up high single digits in energy with significant double-digit growth in maritime.
Segment orders were down 36% as a result of a tough compare with CapRock in the maritime market due to the large Royal Caribbean award last year and as a result of delayed government awards in IT Services and Healthcare.
CapRock was awarded a 3-year $25 million contract extension from an international oil and gas drilling company.
And in Healthcare Solutions we received a 5-year $4 million contract from Allina Health Systems to provide a clinical integration platform utilizing our soon-to-be released version 5.1 software the beta version of which was released last week.
In Integrated Network Solutions non-GAAP segment operating income was $35 million compared with $34 million in the prior year.
Improved operating performance at Healthcare Solutions was offset by a weaker performance in CapRock.
Moving to Slide 7.
Revenue in Government Communications was $481 million decreasing 3% from the prior year due to the transition of the GOES-R weather program to the integration and test phase.
Excluding GOES-R revenue for the rest of the business was 4% higher as a result of recent wins in the civil area of our business.
Non-GAAP operating income was flat to the prior year at $66 million.
Non-GAAP operating margin was solid at 13.6%.
Turning to Slide 8.
Free cash flow was $273 million versus $311 million last year and capital expenditures were $47 million compared to $59 million in the prior year.
Free cash flow for the year came in at a strong $655 million and benefited from the significantly lower capital expenditures.
During the quarter we repurchased about 2.8 million shares of our common stock for a total cash outlay of $140 million.
Share repurchases for the year totaled $400 million.
Our non-GAAP effective tax rate for the quarter was 34.1%.
Moving to Slide 9 we are providing fiscal 2014 guidance that assumes the continuing resolution and sequestration.
For total Harris revenue is expected to be down 1% to 3% and EPS in the range of $4.65 to $4.85.
In RF Communications we expect revenue to be about flat with low single-digit decline in Tactical Communications offset by a mid to high single-digit increase in Public Safety.
Operating margin is expected to be around 30% with savings from restructuring and operational excellence mostly offsetting mix impact from higher Public Safety and International Systems revenue higher investment in R&amp;D and sales and marketing and the onetime $7 million benefit we've already discussed.
In Integrated Network Solutions revenue is expected to be about flat with the growth in CapRock Communications and Healthcare Solutions offset by a decline in IT Services.
Including the NMCI recompete loss operating margin is expected to be 8% to 10% for the segment with improvement in CapRock in Healthcare offset by a decline in IT Services.
In Government Communications we expect revenue to be down 5% to 7% due to further declines in government spending and delays in new program awards.
We expect operating margin to be around 14%.
As indicated on the slide to better align our segments FY '14 segment guidance includes moving the cyber security network testing business area roughly $40 million of revenue and $3 million of operating income from Government Communications to Integrated Network Solutions as of the beginning of fiscal year.
Our tax rate for the fiscal year is expected to be approximately 33% and does not assume the continuation of the R&amp;D tax credit.
Free cash flow as a percent of net income is expected to be around 100%.
And with that let me turn it back to Bill.
Okay.
Well thank you Gary.
Our guidance reflects the environment as we see it today.
We're planning cautiously and conservatively and we continue to focus on the things we control satisfying customers driving operational excellence and maximizing free cash flow which can be returned to shareholders.
And we're committed to investing in the future in R&amp;D and strategic growth initiatives.
We have strong leadership in place and a talented workforce who are committed to delivering against customer expectations and creating shareholder value.
And I'd now like to ask the operator to open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Noah Poponak of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just from a high level when I look at the initial look at 2014 calling for RF to be flat why would this be the year that RF was flat following a couple of years of reasonably sharp topline declines if we're just now moving into the environment where in the U.S.
sequestration is actually going to impact the P&amp;L? I know you've had some order delays and you've talked about feeling like sequestration had already happened and I know you're citing international picking up here but I just wonder how much conservatism you feel is in that topline outlook for RF given the environment that sounds like you think we're going to stay in for a little while? Well thank you very much for the question.
I think given the fact that we don't yet have a U.S.
government budget nor a DoD budget nor how that kind of gets down to the line item details for -- that affect the tactical radios I think what we've done is taking the most prudent assumption we have.
Our assumption right now going into next year is that the DoD tactical radio business is going to be down even further probably in the mid-teens range offset by the international business which we see being up mid to high single-digit.
So overall Tactical going into next year we're seeing to be sort of down low single-digits.
And we think that's given the environment that we're in right now today given what we see in the budgets we think that that's a prudent and a cautious approach.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful on the breakdown there.
And then just one other I guess also sort of big picture question on the segments.
When I look at the individual segment outlooks all of them really not calling for margin expansion.
I just wonder if you could elaborate on why you would not expect to see some margin expansion given all the cost takeout in restructuring you've done coming into the year.
Well you go across the segments in GCS I think we've performed very very well.
And we're sort of at the level of margin that in fact above the expectation we had set back in June of last year so long term margin in GCS in the 13% to 14% range.
And we feel the guidance that we have given reflects the programs that we see there and the performance that we've seen in GCS.
In RF what's happening here is clearly as we go into next year we're seeing more international business in DoD.
And while we've said in the past international and DoD tend to have somewhat similar ROS trends we are seeing more systems business coming in fiscal '14 than we've seen in the past and that's going to dilute the margins a little bit.
We [indiscernible] the shift towards the PSPC business and that's going to bring the overall segment margins at least constrained them a little bit going into next year.
In INS what we've done is I think we've reflected the fact that NGEN -- NMCI comes out of the process.
We've lost on NGEN it's under protest at the moment.
That was a very very good margin business in NMCI so we're reflecting that -- the HITS business the IT Services business with the volume decline in NMCI going away it's going to see pretty substantial margin erosion something on the order of about 300 basis points in the IT Services business offset by pretty strong margin growth in both CapRock as well as in Healthcare.
Your next question comes from the line of Yair Reiner of Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the restructuring is this it for now or is there more work to be done that you can kind of foresee at this stage in -- for 2014? Well Yair thank you very much for the question.
I think what we've done in the fourth quarter is some pretty substantial restructuring.
If you recall back in April we estimated restructuring would be $65 million to $150 million.
We came in above the higher end as we found additional opportunities.
But I think what we've seen over the course of fiscal '12 and fiscal '13 is we continue to take out costs as the market environment changes and we'll continue to do that going forward into fiscal '14.
We have no further plans on the table at the moment but we continue to look for opportunity to take costs out again to match the revenue environment.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then in terms of the guidance you said that it contemplates continued resolution also sequestration.
Can you just give us a sense of systematically how you went through and tried to bake those impacts into your forecast? Was it done on a program-by-program basis or do you just look at across your government contracts and assume that you'll be getting a 10% to 15% cut below what you'd otherwise expect? No.
In fact we've got people who have been in the business a long time and know the customers very very well.
And a lot of this is through conversations with the end customer.
And we do it program-by-program line-by-line as best as we know it and we put some judgment on that based on what we see in the political environment and what we see happening in Congress and we make the best estimate we can.
But it really is on a bottoms up program-by-program basis opportunity-by-opportunity.
So that's really across both the government business as well as what we do internationally in tactical as well as what we do with CapRock and Healthcare business.
It's really from a bottoms-up perspective.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just one last quick one.
For 2013 what was the mix of international within Tactical? And then what do you expect it to be next year? Well this year international was substantially higher than DoD in that mix in Tactical and we see that shifting even further going into next year.
We saw orders and revenue this year being 7 8 points higher.
Backlog is a bit higher in international ending the year so we expect the mix to shift even further towards international modestly into the fiscal '14.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Bill just on the restructuring you come from a UTC culture where this was sort of -- this is a way of doing business year in year out.
And then I think coming into Harris there were definitely some low hanging fruits some opportunities for you but you've obviously done a lot.
And so as we go forward are you thinking about this as a journey where every year like at UTC there's always going to be something that gets done or is this what we saw on this last quarter the culmination of what you think is sort of a big onetime restructuring of the company after becoming CEO? Well there's 2 parts to that.
And one is the pretty substantial restructuring we did in the fourth quarter which I think was pretty broad and pretty deep and they don't tend to repeat very often.
And as I mentioned before we don't have plans on the table to do any further restructuring at this point.
Of course we continue to look for opportunities but there's nothing that's pressing.
What I'm spending more of my time on frankly is building a culture of operational excellence throughout Harris Corporation.
That is a multiyear journey.
That's not multi-quarter it's multiyear.
I think we've had a really really good start in the last 18 months and we're getting the engine moving well looking at things we can do on the factory floor things we could do doing on our field service organization things we can do in supply chain management frankly things we can do in our admin function to make ourselves leaner.
Sometimes those activities do lead over time to restructure and many times they don't.
And that's really what I'm spending a lot of my time on and where I'm focusing the organization.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just over on the margins in Tactical or I guess in RF but really specifically in Tactical a couple of things.
It seems like you're expecting some basically some mix pressure.
I understand the Public Safety but really within Tactical it's the systems.
How do we -- how can we think about the profitability of systems? Is that a certain percentage of them we should think about as Falcon radios with Falcon-type margins and then other components of the system are lower margin? And is there kind of a generic pro rata or a generic percentage that we can think about in terms of hardware versus I guess the other component to that mix? Just trying to get a gauge a little bit how as your mix becomes more and more systems-oriented how that -- what that might do to your margins? Sure Joe.
Let me take a little bit of that.
I don't want to get into the specific percents but it's clear that the systems business is at a lower margin.
And looking at our business outlook for next year we do see that Systems business almost doubling in the international marketplace.
So that will bring down margins overall on those -- as a result of those system sales.
That's really the biggest component of the mix that we see within the Tactical Communications business.
And you mentioned on the Public Safety side obviously as that grows with its lower margin it will impact the RF margins as well.
But we're -- as we said in the past we're really targeting in at that 30% margin.
We're running the business in that kind of range and we think that's sustainable.
Research Division</strong> It's probably should be fair to expect that the margin profile will be higher in the first part of the year because you just had that I think that 1 systems order that you announced anyway.
And then you noted in your prepared remarks that you're expecting more of that so is it fair to say that we should have a downwards sloping margin starting up much higher to begin the year? I don't think Joe we're going to give guidance across the quarters in terms of margins in a segment -- subsegment of a segment.
I think I'm going to stay away from that.
But what I would say is we did have unusually strong margins in Tactical in the fourth quarter.
It did come from the fact that we had more international sales but more importantly it was a lot of product part of international that came with some very full feature products and software upgrades.
That drove the margin to be very strong in the fourth quarter.
That won't continue into next year.
We will see as you see in the guidance over the course of the year margins coming back down to sort of a more normal level for the segment around 30% which we laid out last year.
And in Tactical it has a lot to do with the fact that we've just had more systems business coming into next year in international.
We get this but today that's about all we're going to say.
But to the balance across the quarters going into next year we will see a little lighter first half than second half and probably a lighter Q1 than Q2 only because of just what's happening in our order pattern but also what's happening in Washington.
So I think that's all I would say in terms of calendarization if you will of our guidance for next year.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Loomis of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On tactical radio so we've seen some press about the Army considering going to 1 winner on Rifleman and possibly manpack as well.
What -- could you help us understand I know you're looking for kind of mid-teens decline but what happens if they do go to 1 winner and let's say Harris is not it? Does this completely block you out on Falcon sales to U.S.
military or are there other routes here? Bill that's a great question thank you.
First of all it's still not clear what path the Army and more importantly the DoD as a whole is going to take on the manpack and the Rifleman Radio.
We think a multi-vendor award is in the best interest of the government and the war fighter.
It drives up competition throughout an IDIQ contract.
It incentivizes product innovation drives performance drives cost down and then it get -- not just us but other parties in the industry have that same view.
We've seen on similar awarded programs where if it's a multi-award it tends to drive down costs and drive up innovation and performance over time.
So we think it's in the best interest all around to go with a multi-vendor solution.
That being said we don't know what the government is going to do.
We expect the RFP to come out over the next couple of months but that has been moving to the right so right now we're still thinking it's in the next 1 or 2 months.
Going into fiscal '14 we have very little actual revenue associated with winning or losing either of those 2 products.
It's in the tens of millions it's not very big.
But over time we're going to just keep our head down keep doing the things that we do to drive innovation.
And eventually if we do not get a position on the first award make sure that we find a way on to the program over time.
I would say outside of the Army we're very very strong as we've always been with SOCOM Marine Corps Air Force Navy and we do very very well there.
So our business is not just Army and it's not just manpack and Rifleman.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just staying on RF but on Public Safety can you just expand a bit more on delays in the lower bookings? I mean we're starting to see I think at the fact it was -- today's Wall Street Journal I think had an article about how cities are now once again net hiring on police and fire and other infrastructures so I assume that's good news for you down the road.
But what's happening there in the quarter? And how do you see that changing over the next year? It's a good question.
And we are encouraged by the improving finances generally not -- there's some obviously some specific exceptions to that.
But generally improving finances in the state and local area and they're hiring back firefighters and police force other first responders.
For the year in Public Safety we're up 3.5%.
We are very strong in the first half up 10% to 12% so a pretty good double-digit revenue growth in the first half.
In the back half we were flat to down.
And then fourth quarter we're down about 5% 5.5% 6% in that range.
And as Gary said in his prepared remarks it does have to do with project delays.
It's a sort of a lumpy business at times and yes we did see that the orders coming in earlier in the year and revenues are a bit soft.
And we did have some slower terminal sales in the fourth quarter.
And that's a watch item for us frankly we got to keep an eye on that it's an important growth initiative for us going into fiscal '14.
But we saw in our largest competitor a fairly similar pattern over the course of the year.
If you exclude the benefit they saw from narrowbanding which we don't participate in because we don't participate in some of the lower end of the market we saw about 3.5% growth for the full year.
So I think we're holding our own not gaining share not losing but holding our own.
Over time and going into the next year we expect our business to rebound.
We're pushing our team very hard to do that.
We expect stronger book-to-bill stronger growth stronger orders momentum going into next year and better margin performance.
Your next question comes from the line of Gautam Khanna of Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I just wanted to ask if you could elaborate on kind of order of timing.
As we move to the year you've had a lot of international stuff coming through of late.
Should we expect that momentum to continue in the first and second quarters or any commentary on the cadence for orders for the year? Gautam this is Gary.
I don't think we're going to get specific as to timing on these orders.
We did point out that we have a large amount of orders in that kind of final stages of the process.
But as we've said in the past a timing prediction on these things is very difficult.
A lot of things come into play with governments and their funding and really going to stay away other than to say what -- echo what Bill said I think first half a little lighter probably than the second half on the sell side and right now probably Q1 a little lighter than Q2.
But maybe if I can just offer just a little bit more as we go into next year Gautam I know that our business our Tactical business hinges more on international.
It has been lumpy.
Our pipeline as Gary pointed out is pretty strong.
It's $2.2 billion.
We've got $800 million in proposals in closure which looks pretty good and still pretty healthy.
And the names of the countries that we've described in the past that are in that pipeline remains the same ones.
More than half is Middle East and Asia where we know security is an issue we know that U.S.
is pulling back a little bit.
We see Iraq in there.
We see more opportunities in Saudi Arabia.
We see opportunities in Jordan the U.A.E.
Afghanistan et cetera.
And I think we're well positioned in each of those.
We see 15% 20% of that pipeline to be coalition countries that are deploying wideband Australia it's Norway U.K.
Canada.
We see good opportunities emerging in those markets as they upgrade to wideband radios.
And Latin America looks pretty good at this point as well.
We're well positioned in Brazil.
We've got a great position on this front partnered with Embraer.
We see other opportunities in Brazil.
We see Mexico getting a bit stronger.
And we see other countries smaller ones that will start to materialize over the course of fiscal '14.
So I'm pretty encouraged by the strength the -- so where the pipeline happens to be at this point.
But as you know Gautam the timing of the orders over the course of the year is really really difficult.
LLC Research Division</strong> Is there anything you can say with respect to that $800 million proposals and the $400 million U.S.
side about lumpiness is there anything where you have 1 or 2 that are north of $100 million that are near-term anything that could really move the needle any given quarter? No.
I think we're going to stay away from that.
The -- the biggest -- orders tend to be in the tens of millions.
Now we don't see a big Australia coming in.
Obviously the one we took a couple of weeks ago with Saudi Arabia is unusually big.
We don't see many more that are of that size.
Surprises do happen but we don't see any of that size on a near-term horizon.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last one on just the cash redeployment for fiscal '14 what are you assuming in terms of buybacks and what have you? Yes.
Going into next year we're still looking at about $200 million of share buyback.
Our dividend payout ratio we've been targeting about 30%.
And the balance we will tend to use for paying down debt or returning another way to shareholders so that's our plan right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Pete Skibitski of Drexel Hamilton.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just to beat a dead horse a little bit.
On the Tactical projections next year for international how was -- what's your sense of how heavily you factored the revenue flow for international delays? It sounds like with no huge chunks that maybe the opportunity for timing issues to crop up may be less.
But I'd like to hear you give your thoughts as to how heavily factored you think the projections are for timing issues.
It's -- I wouldn't call it a dead horse.
It's a very important discussion.
But we've got a really really strong international dealer channel and a really strong international sales force in Tactical and they know their customers really well.
They know the process.
They know what it takes to get things approved.
They know our competitive landscape.
We've gone through the FMS process within the U.S.
for international opportunities dozens and dozens and dozens of times.
So we understand it very very well.
But that being said it's just hard to predict the timing of particular orders in a quarter.
We feel good about the outlook for the year.
We feel good about our 12- to 18-month pipeline.
But it's -- we're not going to get pushed into trying to call the ball on a particular quarter with a particular order.
It's just going to set us up for failure and we're going to avoid doing that Pete.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you feel good about the year it's just quarter-to-quarter it could be up and down? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one.
I'm just trying to get a sense on INS sort of how conservative you're being on the topline for INS because you talked about HITS being down and it sounds like you think maybe NMCI is the biggest issue there.
But with the protest I mean how likely is it you're going to be able to book an NMCI revenue for the full year in fiscal '14 do you think? Well a couple of things maybe just a little more color on the INS growth.
We're expecting the IT Services business to be down about 10% next year and that does include the loss of NGEN.
So even though we protested and we feel we've got strong grounds for the protest I think we thought it was prudent just pull out of our numbers but that means that some NMCI does continue into fiscal '14 not for the full year effect but some part of the year we will continue to see NMCI sales.
As we -- at 10% down in IT Services if I pull out the NMCI piece the other parts of IT Services will be down about 6% which is sort of consistent with what we see the budgets being in IT Services for the course of next year.
But we're seeing on the NMCI revenue down about 33% about 1/3 down into next year because it's going to start to wind down and transition to NGEN over the course of the year.
On the other 2 parts of INS CapRock and Healthcare we see both businesses to be pretty strong next year both up high single-digits or slightly better.
But in total we see revenue to be flat at the INS segment level.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Quilty of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess recently you picked up a certification on PRC-152 handheld but we haven't heard any announcements regarding your efforts to get that the 2-channel radio certified which I believe is a prerequisite for the manpack competition.
Can you give us an update on where you feel you stand in that certification? I'll have to check with the team Chris and get back to you with that.
I don't have any real update to share on the certification.
I know that we've made major progress as we talked about with WNW and our maneuver radio and that's working effectively.
But I haven't heard anything specifically about certification from the team that's an issue or a concern with regards to the timing of the awards.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And regarding your ANW2 certification I know you were looking to get that put in the repository and potentially deployed across even competitor radios.
Is that still something that you are focusing on? It is actually and we're making good progress there.
And in fact we would expect that that would happen in the first half of our fiscal year maybe even in the first quarter.
Although we've worked on that all throughout the fourth -- fiscal '13 as well and so we opened the dialogue with the DoD customer.
And we expect it's going to occur in the course of next year but timing on that -- even calling a timing on that is a bit uncertain.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just to clarify that proprietary ANW2 waveform.
I think originally you had to get a waiver for that to be deployed in Afghanistan but is it now being widely used throughout your product platform? Absolutely.
Yes absolutely across the 117G family it's very much a part of that.
It's done very very well in these NIE testings it's played a very important role in that as well.
And I think the customers are seeing that it is very beneficial to the solution going forward.
Okay.
I think that wraps us up for today.
Thank you everyone for joining us and see you next quarter.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
That concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Quarter 1 2014 Harris Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Matthew and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] And now I'd like to turn the call over to Pamela Padgett Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed ma'am.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our First Quarter Fiscal 2014 Earnings Call.
I'm Pamela Padgett and on the call with me today is Bill Brown President and CEO; Gary McArthur Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started a few words on forward-looking statements.
In the course of this teleconference management may make forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements involve assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those statements.
For more information and a discussion of such assumptions risks and uncertainties please see the press release and filings made by Harris with the SEC.
In addition in our press release and on this teleconference and the related presentation we will discuss certain financial measures and information that are non-GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation to the comparable GAAP measures is included in the tables of our press release and on the Investor Relations section of our website which is www.harris.com.
A replay of this call will also be available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
And with that Bill I'll turn the call over to you.
Okay well thank you Pam and good morning everyone and welcome to our first quarter earnings call.
I'm pleased to report a positive start to the fiscal year.
Previous restructuring actions and our continuing focus on the things we control in this challenging government environment such as improving operational excellence driving free cash flow and returning cash to shareholders led to solid results with higher earnings per share and significantly higher free cash flow.
We also had some key wins which I'll touch on in a minute and our book-to-bill for the company was slightly higher than 1.
Turning to Slides 3 and 4 of the presentation.
Earnings per share was $1.18 up 4%; on revenue down 6%.
We generated $139 million of free cash flow compared to $77 million in the prior year with a conversion rate of 109% of income.
And we continue to deliver on our commitment to return cash to shareholders during the quarter increasing our dividend to 13.5% spending $100 million in cash to repurchase shares and approving a new $1 billion share repurchase authorization.
Over the past year as we restructured and focused on operational excellence to lower cost we also continued to invest in the future.
We increased R&amp;D investment in fiscal '13 by about 5% and it was up again in the first quarter.
And we focused our R&amp;D spend on the most strategic and highest-return projects.
This strategy is beginning to bear fruit and I thought I'd point out a few specific examples that provide some insight into our future competitiveness.
By investing R&amp;D resources in a 2-channel tactical radio system we were successful in winning the Army's highly-contested $141 million Mid-Tier Networking Vehicular Radio Procurement called MNVR.
As you well know this replaces the canceled JTRS program ground mobile radio or GMR.
Our solution for MNVR is based on our Falcon III radio.
With more than 45 000 units fielded around the world it's the most widely-deployed wideband radio in the market.
And just as Harris was first to have a government SRW Waveform certified and working in a radio MNVR will be the first production radio to deploy the government's wideband networking waveform WNW.
Initial shipments will be in time for the Army's network integration evaluation 15.1 in the fall of 2014 and over the next 10 years the Army has budgeted about $600 million to spend on mid-tier radios.
We're also focusing investment on other upcoming JTRS procurements and we're pleased to hear that the Army is moving back towards a multi-vendor acquisition strategy for both the manpack and the Rifleman Radio an approach we believe is in the best interest of the war fighter and the taxpayer as competition drives innovation speed to market and cost-effective solutions.
We officially launched our 2-channel manpack radio at last week's AUSA.
Our radio weighs less and is 1/3 smaller than competitor radios has a simple keypad-driven user interface familiar to some 45 000 current tactical radio users and has the ability to support the full suite of waveforms without requiring expensive add-on appliques.
Our Rifleman Radio offering is the U.S.
equivalent to our international Soldier Radio of which more than 44 000 have been already fielded around the world.
Our U.S.
product the RF-330E wideband team radio provides significant differentiation from existing radios including a substantially longer battery life shorter connect time to the network and a unique dashboard display that provides the user operational and network status at a glance such as battery time remaining and number of users and where they are on the network.
We also stepped up investments on the international front and in a recent London trade show announced our entry into the international ground-to-air radio market.
Our international offering is a variant of the radio that will compete for the U.S.
market's Small Airborne Networking Radio or SANR procurement that replaces the previously-canceled JTRS airborne radio program AMF.
So overall good early returns on a key strategy to increase and focus our R&amp;D spend.
As we mentioned in our fourth quarter call growing revenue in international markets is important to our year and we've had some pretty positive news on that front.
Our international tactical pipeline has increased in value funding has firmed up as a result of improving relations between the U.S.
and Pakistan and contract vehicles supporting foreign military sales are in place with encouraging recent increases in ceiling value.
Earlier this month we were awarded an $847 million increase in the ceiling value of a sole-source CECOM contract.
And you may recall that last third quarter we received a $500 million ceiling value increase on a similar sole-source contract giving us some comfort that communications equipment is a spending priority.
In Government Communications we made significant progress on one of our FAA NextGen programs known as DataComm.
Under DataComm the FAA is transitioning air traffic control from mainly voice communications to specialized data messaging improving safety and reliability as well as providing other efficiencies for the airlines such as saving fuel and reducing arrival and departure times.
To jump-start industry adoption early in the DataComm program the FAA established an incentive program for equipping aircraft with digital Avionics and Harris has played an integral role working with the FAA to garner industry support for using the incentives to begin equipping airplanes.
This quarter we received a big boost from industry when 5 major U.S.
airlines committed to outfit their aircraft with digital Avionics equipment achieving nearly 80% of the FAA's 6-year target in just the first year of the program.
This strong commitment by industry demonstrates that the DataComm program will continue to be a valued and funded component of the FAA's NextGen initiative.
In our Integrated Network Solutions segment we have particularly strong orders in IT Services and made significant progress in strategically expanding our maritime business.
Earlier this month CapRock was awarded in a competitive bid a 5-year contract from Carnival Corporation for satellite voice data and Internet services across its fleet of 103 ships dramatically improving bandwidth capacity to meet growing demand from passengers and crew.
With this significant award and our previous Royal Caribbean win we are now the satellite communications provider for the top 2 cruise lines in the world.
So overall a pretty solid start to the year.
And now we'll turn it over to Gary to comment on segment results and guidance for 2014 and then we'll open it up for some of your questions.
Thank you Bill and good morning everyone.
Moving to segment results on Slide 5 RF communication orders were $348 million compared to $363 million in the prior year.
Revenue was $423 million compared to $445 million.
Book-to-bill was 0.8.
In Tactical Communications orders were $225 million up in the U.S.
but down in international due to timing.
Tactical revenue was $305 million and declined 1% compared to the prior year.
The 12- to 18-month international pipeline grew to $2.4 billion expanding somewhat from the previous quarter's $2.2 billion.
The U.S.
pipeline is also a bit higher at $1.1 billion compared to the previous quarter's $1 billion.
In Public Safety revenue was weak at $118 million declining 14%.
Orders were $123 million up 12% and book-to-bill was greater than 1.
The decline in revenue reflects both the general weakness across system and terminal sales in state and local and from federal government orders booking too late in the quarter to turn to revenue.
Public Safety orders in the quarter included $40 million from Mobile County Alabama to deploy a P25 emergency communication system a good win resulting from a growth initiative to migrate customers from existing legacy systems to the P25 interoperable standard.
Operating income from the RF Communications segment was $135 million with a 32% operating margin in the quarter driven by lower cost and favorable product mix.
Turning now to Slide 6 in Integrated Network Solutions.
First quarter revenue decreased 3% to $376 million.
In CapRock growth in energy and maritime was more than offset by lower government revenue.
In IT Services while revenue was down 3% the decline was less than expected.
Segment orders were higher than revenue as a result of record orders in IT Services.
The outstanding orders performance at IT Services was driven by several wins $89 million from the VA $35 million under the U.S.
State Department's Consular Affairs Support Services contract and $22 million from the U.S.
Air Force for NORAD and NORTHCOM.
Other awards included a $65 million follow-on contract for the U.S.
Air Force's Satellite Control Network and a position on the NETCENTS-2 Applications Services IDIQ contract with a ceiling value of $960 million.
And following the close of the quarter we received a $54 million order from the U.S.
Navy to extend continuity of services on the Navy Marine Corps Internet (sic) [Intranet] contract through June 2014.
In CapRock we were awarded a 7-year $45 million contract including options and received an initial order under this contract of $24 million from an oil and gas equipment services company for the global fleet of offshore service vessels.
In health care we were less successful than expected on government recompetes and new program wins and the release of our clinical innovation platform version 5.1 software slipped from the planned August launch date.
The software has now been released and is operating in a few live environments.
So so far so good.
In Integrated Network Solutions segment operating income was $30 million compared with prior year of $33 million.
Lower cost were more than offset by the impact of lower revenue and margin pressure from a competitive government market environment.
Moving to Slide 7.
Revenue in Government Communications was $412 million decreasing 9% from the prior year primarily due to the timing of NOAA's GOES-R weather program transitioning to an integration and test phase and partially from lower revenue from Department of Defense customers.
The declines more than offset higher revenue from classified customers and from other civil agency customers including the FAA.
Excluding GOES-R revenue for the rest of the business was flat with the prior year.
Awards in the quarter included the 7-year $150 million network services component of the previously won DataComm program that Bill just discussed and a 5-year multi-vendor communications and transmissions system IDIQ contract called CTS from the U.S.
Army with a $4.1 billion ceiling value to provide upgrades and maintenance of the Army's worldwide terrestrial communications networks.
Operating income was $64 million and operating margin was strong at 15.5% as a result of very good program performance.
Turning to Slide 8.
Free cash flow was strong at $139 million versus $77 million last year and capital expenditures were $33 million compared to $44 million in the prior year.
During the quarter we repurchased about 1.7 million shares of our common stock for a total cash outlay of $100 million and our effective tax rate for the quarter was 32.2%.
Moving to Slide 9.
Fiscal 2014 guidance remains unchanged at a range of $4.65 to $4.85 per diluted share for our income from continuing operations and a revenue decline of 1% to 3% compared to the prior year.
We've also made no changes to segment information which is detailed on this slide.
And with that we'll turn it back to the operator and open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Carter Copeland of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
The weakness you saw in the quarter at PSPC the -- you quoted the system and terminal sales orders are the orders shifting to the right.
Does that weakness abate and we return to growth there? Is that what's implied by that statement later in the year? Yes.
We were a little bit weak on revenue.
Part of it was I think market-driven.
Just weakness in systems and terminals for state and local.
We also had some orders that came in pretty late in the quarter on the federal side which didn't make the quarter and shifted into Q2.
So that was a factor as well.
But you remember back the last couple of years our book-to-bill has been less than 1 for about 7 or 8 of the last 9 quarters.
Decent bookings in Q1 I would say were up about 12% 13% and solid book-to-bill in the quarter.
And we do expect that over the balance of year we'll return to growth.
As I mentioned last time our guidance for the year in the Public Safety was mid to high-single digits certainly coming out of the gates at down 14% puts a little more stretch into the back half but we still think that this is a growth business.
We think the market's growing in the 3% to 5% range.
Our biggest competitor in our space did have some challenges like we did in the most recent quarter and seeing the same sort of market phenomenon that we're seeing.
But we're making some changes in the way we organize at Public Safety.
I think we've added people into sales and marketing both on the terminals and systems side to drive growth in that space.
We're investing in a product offering and I think over time we're going to start to see ourselves come back to full growth and we do expect that will be towards the back end of the year Carter.
So thank you.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And on the CECOM the IDIQ ceiling increase were there any associated task orders that came with that? Or it was just a ceiling change for now? These 2 vehicles have been in place for some time.
There was a ceiling increase.
So we've been over time receiving some task orders against each of them.
I think what we saw in -- the one we saw back in Q3 of $500 million in the most recent one is again just a little more encouragement a little more confidence that orders on the FMS side will start to flow through those vehicles.
They are still sourced.
They're communications-specific Harris-specific.
So that was a I think a big vote of confidence in what we expect to see is better growth in the international side through the balance of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Yair Reiner of Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> On the margin front at GCS you seem to be kind of batting pretty strongly here kind of opposite story at INS.
Maybe you can help us think through how the balance of the year plays out and what was behind the decision not to raise the guidance for GCS margins and not to lower it for INS.
At GCS we feel really good about the margin progression over the last several years and we felt great where we ended at fiscal '13 and we feel good about where we came out in the first quarter of fiscal '14 at 15.5% that's pretty strong.
Of course we're still guiding the 14% for the year.
We saw unusually strong product business in the first quarter and we saw some really good award fees coming through on a number of our programs [ph] particularly on the classified side.
Those things you tend not to want to put in the guidance or forecast to repeat through the balance of the year so we didn't do that.
And we do see over the course of the year a little less product business a little more systems and program business which will be at slightly lower margins.
So again we're 1 quarter into the year.
I think we're maintaining a cautious approach for the year and we held our guidance.
Research Division</strong> In INS? In INS I think we came out of the gates.
We saw a pretty good orders at the IT Services business.
And as Gary mentioned we did see an extension to the NMCI contract going for the balance of the year.
So we will see some improvement in this segment just simply because we've got a little bit better performance in the IT Services business.
In Q1 both IT Services and CapRock were down modestly year-over-year margins at Q1.
Of course CapRock was improving sequentially.
We saw that improving over the balance of the year.
Again it's a little bit early to change our outlook for the year-end margins for INS.
I think we had a I guess a solid start coming just around -- just below 8% 7.9% margin for the INS segment.
And I think for now 8% to 10% for the year is about the right range given what we see in our business.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one more if I could.
Tactical was good this quarter in terms of the top line.
It seems to be trending maybe a little bit above the guidance for the year which is for -- down I think low-single digits.
Should we think of that as perhaps being ahead of plan and PSS [ph] business to Carter's point maybe being a bit behind? Well if you try to extrapolate from Q1 one could draw that conclusion.
But with still 1 quarter in the year and we still have a lot left in it.
I think we came out of the gates strongly on tactical.
We feel good about that.
We had good orders in the DoD side.
And of course the MNVR win was a nice wind at our back and we feel strong about that.
I think the backlog remains pretty healthy in the Tactical business.
You may recall we had very strong orders in Q4.
We ended the year with very very good backlog.
Of course with orders being down a little bit and the book-to-bill as Gary mentioned at Tactical been less than 1 we saw backlog erosion over the course of the quarter.
But you can run the math; it dropped about $80 million sequentially through Q1.
But where we stand today in terms of backlog in Tactical versus where we were 1 year ago about 8% to 9% higher.
And that does give us a little bit more encouragement that we'll see pretty good business this year in tactical radios.
And we hope that that might offset what could be more of a stretch in Public Safety in the back half.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So Bill on the pipeline which went up both in international and domestic is that due to the changes in the weightings that you guys give them given I think Pakistan you mentioned that.
That seems like probably an important change.
And also you mentioned the multi-vendor strategy for JTRS.
Were those basically incorporated and that's why they went up? Or was there other drivers? On the DoD side it came up I'd say modestly year-over-year.
Last time it was about $1 billion now it's about $1.1 billion.
There's various parts of the geography that move around but I wouldn't overread too much into it it going up by $100 million.
It's in that range of accuracy.
But we still feel pretty good about the pipeline for DoD.
Only about 25% of that pipeline is on modernization.
The rest is what we see happening in the Air Force Marine Corps SOCOM all of which is standardized on Falcon III other Army spares and some other things.
So on the DoD side I would characterize it as remaining pretty solid for us.
On the international side it did come up by a couple of hundred million dollars and it wasn't weighting.
It was very specific opportunities that just have grown in value since we spoke about 3 months ago and they're very specific ones.
It's the shape or the contour of that $2.4 billion pipeline hasn't moved a lot.
It's still more than half Middle East and Asia where we know security's an issue.
In the U.S.
it's starting to pull back.
Iraq is an important market for us and that's pretty strong.
Country in Africa.
Obviously Pakistan has been big and I mentioned that in the script and that's guiding -- getting a little bit more solid.
A lot of it is -- about 15% of the pipeline is coalition countries that are deploying wideband and interestingly enough they're standardizing on our product moving from 117Fs to 117Gs and the balance is in Latin America.
So it's in various pieces but the growth is specific opportunities in some of those markets that I just mentioned.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just over on the margins.
They were pretty strong and tactical kind of looks like a little lower obviously than unusual Q4 number but higher than they were in the first part of last year.
Is -- you mentioned on the last call I believe that you're looking for mix to be a little bit of a headwind for you as you get to the close of the year.
Is that still true? Or are you feeling a little better about the sustainability of the margins here? No that is still true.
And it's -- my comments there are very consistent with what we talked about last time.
We did end the year fiscal '13 very strong.
We had unusually strong international margins based on the mix of what was in international.
We did say over the course of fiscal '14 as we see more international business and more systems business that we'll see margins trending down over the course of the year.
So we're not terribly surprised that we came in a little bit higher in Q1.
It feels good.
Dana and his team are performing exceptionally well on managing the various mix shifts and driving innovation driving operational excellence.
I think they're executing extremely extremely well.
We still see the full year coming at around 30%.
We continued to invest in our business and I made a specific -- maybe long-winded discussion around our R&amp;D investment over the course of my prepared remarks to really drive home the point that as we do take out cost we're investing and we're investing quite a bit in that very very important franchise we have in Tactical Communications.
So we're investing in sales and marketing in R&amp;D and we feel good about our ability to continue to take out cost and drive operational excellence in that segment which remains really really strong.
So we're still at about 30% for the year and we think we've got a pretty good roadmap to achieve that Joe.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Loomis of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at the shutdown impact and the sequestration.
Ironically you're talking about your shorter cycle businesses.
IT Services had great awards and good performance.
And in Tactical your DoD pipeline looks better and awards have been good there.
Can you just talk about how you've seen the shutdown how that impacted your business going into the December quarter? And then just some thoughts as we're past -- we're already obviously in the fiscal '13 sequestration '14 coming up.
Any new thoughts there on how it could impact some of your shorter cycle U.S.
federal business? Sure.
Yes we saw a little bit disruption in the early part of October in some of our factories mainly with the DCMA inspectors when they were on furlough they came back.
Shortly thereafter it very quickly we got back in the business.
So we didn't see much of a disruption on the product side based on the fact that the DCMA inspectors came back relatively quickly.
In some of our IT business we did see a couple of programs where the pencil is down for a couple of weeks.
It was temporary.
It was in the tens of people.
Small small numbers.
So not a lot of big impact in our quarter.
The bigger impact is that we see and I think others have seen is just the push out in awards.
And that's going to take some time for the government to catch up with that.
So overall that's -- the impact is more push out on awards and less on sort of what would happen day-to-day in the early part of October.
In terms of the shutdown and what's happening in DC the shutdown is over but here we are again operating under a continuing resolution.
And that's going to go on through mid-January when obviously sequestration could in fact get triggered again depending upon what happens.
And the budget committee I understand they're starting to meet this week and who's to say what's have going to happen over the 6 weeks.
Will they create a budget? Will they do something that's different than what we're all expecting? We don't know.
There's a lot of uncertainty in the marketplace.
So for now we're maintaining a pretty cautious view of where we are at on first half of the year just as we previously expressed.
We're not going to get into calling where we at in the first half versus second half.
But we did say we'd be a bit more cautious in the first half and I think that was an important point and it's playing out as we had thought just a couple of months ago.
I think we had a good start in Q1.
And we saw some encouraging news.
We're focused on the actions that drive performance and generate solid free cash in the year.
But as I said there's still quite a bit of uncertainty and we're managing through it just as best as we can.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one more in NMCI.
Is -- what revenue run rate are you carrying to the year-end? If you could talk about that? And when -- how quickly do you think it will drop off? On NMCI it comes in at relatively strong margins and they're not going to be too terribly different than what we've seen in the past.
They're quite a bit above the normal segment margins that we seen in IT Services.
I don't think I would want to speculate as to what they happen to be but that Bill does give us I'd say a little bit more upside on the IT Services side of INS.
And that will offset probably a little bit more pressure in some other parts of INS segment which is why I was sort of couching my remarks on the 8% to 10% for the year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is it running at the full rate going into the end of the year? I would say it has been running very very strong and we don't see that it's going to change much for the balance of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Skibitski of Drexel Hamilton.
LLC Research Division</strong> Guys I just want to ask you a couple more questions about the FMS radio contract that had the ceiling increase a few weeks ago.
I was just wondering was that increase kind of in line with what you expected? And then maybe if you could share kind of how much value was left on that contract? And just kind of if that contract vehicle carries kind of the majority of your international orders? Well we did expect that those ceiling increases would come.
Obviously we watch as we draw down some of the existing ceilings and watched carefully as to how much is remaining we weren't surprised that the increases happened.
We can't really get into specifics as to how much is left or where the numbers happen to be.
But when you take a $500 million increase a few quarters ago another $850 million recently that's some pretty healthy headroom in those 2 contracts just based on the increase that we have seen.
So I think that's -- I'm not sure there was another part to your question Pete.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes if that contract vehicle is that kind of the majority of your international RF orders flow to that contract vehicle? No no.
We've got other things that we do.
There's some that go direct.
There's some other vehicles.
So no that represents some parts of our international business but not all of it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And just one follow-up.
On the $1 billion authorization I forget how long that lasts for but are you still expecting to do -- I think it was $200 million in repurchases this year? And I guess what's the rationale for maybe not doing more given the size of the authorization? Yes Pete this is Gary.
There is no limitation on the time as to the $1 billion authorization.
And looking at our capital deployment at this point we haven't changed our outlook for the year.
We're going to maintain a dividend payout ratio again of at 30% or above.
And we're targeting that $200 million in share buyback.
Your next question comes from the line of Gautam Khanna of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Could you help us figure out when the SRW applique the manpack production awards may actually be awarded? What's your expectation on timing? Those both the manpack and Rifleman have been shifting to the right.
Our expectation today based on what we're hearing is that the RFP on the Rifleman should come out around the Christmas time.
And we think the manpack will follow 45 to 60 days after that possibly.
But again there's a lot of moving parts.
And I think the shutdown and the budget debates I think -- and I think part of it is the rethinking positively for Harris Corporation going from single vendor to multi-vendor is also causing a little bit of a shift in the timing.
But that's when we think RFP is going to come out.
The award time has not changed from the -- what we're hearing from the DoD sometime in the summer of next year.
But again as you move the front end it could move the back end a little bit.
My understanding is they want some delivery orders prior to 15.1 so we think that is still the timing that they're shooting for.
LLC Research Division</strong> And what about the SRW applique in terms of funded orders? Yes the applique is we think the award is going to come out sometime at the end of the year around December.
Your next question is from the line of Chris Quilty of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on orders.
Can you remind us when does the protest period end for the MNVR contract? And have you seen a protest yet? We understand Chris that the time for the -- a timely protest on MNVR expired yesterday.
So we have the debriefings that happened and we have heard nothing.
So we are under the impression that there will be no protest.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Congratulations.
A follow-up question on the CapRock business.
Congratulations on that Carnival win with -- that with the Royal Caribbean I think is about 60% if you can confirm that of the cruise industry? And can you speak specifically about what factors led to those wins given the fact that MTN had been the incumbent I think for the better part of a decade.
Was it something specific in the technology implementation or pricing or bundling of other services that you think contributed to those wins? I think there would -- I wouldn't want to try to generalize it to any specific factor because they're very big complicated awards.
And the decision factor by the Royal Caribbean was probably a little bit different than Carnival.
When you have thousands of people on your boats and you have 100 boats in your fleet and cruises going every year -- every week rather.
And the importance of people bringing devices on the boat is very very important for the cruise line to pick a very reliable communications partner to handle interactions with their customers and their crew.
And I think you were very very thoughtful on this.
This RFP went off for some time.
It was price competitive.
But they were looking for a solution.
They were looking for reliability.
They were looking for the ability to bring other communications technologies not just VSAT do things differently on the boat.
So I think the variety of expertise that Harris Corporation has in the space plus the financial backing of the corporation and the sort of wherewithal of our entity I think was some of the factors that went behind Carnival choosing us.
But we feel very good about the award.
We feel very good about where we're at with Royal Caribbean and we see there's more opportunities in the space.
In terms of the share I think you can -- I'm not really sure exactly what the share is.
You have 100 boats for Carnival and another 35 34-ish for Royal Caribbean.
So I think you can run the math from that.
We're not going to be 60% of this segment at this point I don't think.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And to what degree are you going to be able to generate operating leverage from the fixed amount of transponders that you're already leasing? Or would something like Caribbean require a large new incremental purchase of transponder capacity? I don't believe so Chris.
We basically have our global teleports established and then we have good coverage in that region that their ships would be sailing.
So it's not really on the transponder side.
With regards to the bandwidth we definitely have gone out and contracted for the bandwidth.
So we're pretty sure that we're going to be able to do those at competitive rates.
So we're pretty well-positioned and should be able to leverage the infrastructure that's already in place.
The next question comes from the line of Josh Sullivan of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> On the Government Communications side can you talk about the balance between the cost initiatives you've obviously done successful with versus new business and competing for new contracts? And are you [ph] using the operating leverage for growth? You've given this focus on cost going forward.
Are you more comfortable enough in your position to just continue in more of a harvesting mode at this point? We're definitely not in a harvesting mode in GCS.
In fact when I talked a lot about investments in company-funded R&amp;D in Tactical Communications but we're substantially raising our company-funded R&amp;D within the GCS segment as well.
Geared towards in many ways a lot of the products that we sell it's been very successful.
We talked about this in an investor meeting 1.5 years ago or so.
And we've seen the amount of product business we do at GCS come up.
It keeps getting a little bit better.
We see opportunities to extend some of that product business around the world into international markets.
And we're investing to capture some of that.
So it's not harvest.
It's actually continuing to grow.
I think Sheldon and his team have done an outstanding job in managing their programs and executing on the programs to continue to keep margins on an upward trajectory.
And I think there's not much more to say about that.
I think they've just done an outstanding job in that segment.
Even in the first quarter while the revenues were -- came in a little bit lighter than maybe people would've expected and sort of what we're guiding to for the year even the revenue performance I think in the first quarter was pretty good.
It -- outside of a pretty tough compare which is really the first quarter only on GOES-R.
Outside of that the revenue would've been about flat.
So they're off to a good start in the year as well on the top line and as we talked before pretty good on the margins as well.
Research Division</strong> That's good to hear.
And then can you just update us on the healthcare platform roll out? I might have missed this.
I came on a little late just curious.
Yes we're a little bit late in the release of a critical piece of software for the commercial health care market.
We thought it would happen earlier in Q1.
But it is launched.
It's live in a couple of environments.
It hasn't been very long so the feedback is still very nascent but no surprises.
We keep a watch eye on it.
We hope that that's going to be successful.
We expect that that's going to be successful and we'll see better performance at the back end of the year on the commercial side.
Research Division</strong> And is there any way to kind of size that opportunity maybe longer term? Well it's -- look the healthcare process is a relatively small piece of our portfolio.
The business is $200 million and the commercial side is $50 million or less.
So it's -- right now it's small.
We're focused on getting the software deployment right getting it working right in the space.
And then once we do that we'll see the effect it has on the portfolio for time.
It's just too soon to say.
Right now it's really not a big part of Harris Corporation.
Operator is there anyone else in the queue? Josh do you have another question? There are no more questions in the queue.
Okay.
I think we'll wrap up the call and thank you everyone for joining us today.
Thank you very much for joining today's conference ladies and gentlemen.
This now concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a very good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Harris Corporation’s Second Quarter 2014 Earnings conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question and answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
If you require any assistance during the call please press star then zero on your touchtone telephone.
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Pamela Padgett Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ma’am you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our second quarter fiscal 2014 earnings call.
I’m Pamela Padgett and on the call today is Bill Brown President and CEO and Gary McArthur Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started a few words on forward-looking statements.
In the course of this teleconference management may make forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements involve assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those statements.
For more information and a discussion of such assumptions risks and uncertainties please see the press release and filings made by Harris with the SEC.
In addition in our press release and on this teleconference and the related presentation we’ll discuss certain financial measures and information that are non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation to the comparable GAAP measures are included in the tables of our press release and on the Investor Relations section of our website which is <a href="http://www.harris.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.harris.com</u></a>.
A replay of the call will also be available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
And with that Bill I’ll turn the call to you.
Okay well thank you Pam and good morning everyone.
Second quarter results were solid with earnings per share and orders above prior year.
Our focus on cost savings continues to drive good performance in a tough U.S.
government market and international orders and revenue were both particularly strong highlighting significant progress in our strategy to expand outside the U.S.
Turning to Slides 3 and 4 of the presentation earnings per share was $1.27 up 2% on revenue down 5%.
Good program execution as well as company-wide operational excellence initiatives including the benefit of prior year restructuring actions drove operating margin for the company 50 basis points higher year-over-year and up in each segment.
Orders were up 8% driven in large part by a 35% increase in tactical communications on strength in the international market.
Orders were also higher in CapRock’s energy and maritime markets as well as in IT services.
Book-to-bill was 1.20 for the company and we ended the quarter with funded backlog of $3.4 billion up both year-over-year and sequentially.
As we mentioned in the call last time our international tactical radio pipeline was firming up and in the quarter we booked a number of significant international orders across a broad customer base including $100 million from Australia $49 million from a country in the Middle East $36 million and $21 million from two NATO countries and $28 million from a country in Latin America all of which are multi-year programs and carry additional follow-on opportunities both within the 12- to 18-month pipeline and beyond.
Now typically once we become a tactical radio supplier of choice in a country additional follow-on opportunities tend to flow to Harris.
Australia is a great example.
Our relationship with Australia goes back decades and orders to date have now exceeded half a billion dollars including the recent $100 million order for Phase III of their modernization program and we still see significant opportunity ahead of us.
Even after strong bookings in the quarter our international tactical pipeline remains robust at $2.2 billion with other significant opportunities that we’ve discussed before such as Iraq and two countries in central Asia making good progress through the procurement process and moving closer to award.
On the U.S.
DoD side tactical radio revenue was weaker in the quarter as expected due to budget constraints and as customers operated under a CR; but we also had some good news with the U.S.
Army officially changing its procurement strategy for the JTRS Manpack and Rifleman radio programs to full and open competition and a multi-vendor award.
The Army’s tactical radio modernization remains a tremendous multi-billion dollar opportunity for Harris and we’re also encouraged that the Army’s plans are well funded in the budget.
We believe our unique commercial model which drives speed and innovation and the scale advantage provided by our extensive international presence will continue to make us highly competitive in all the Army’s procurements.
In our INS segment as mentioned in our last call we’ve booked a five-year contract with Carnival for broadband data and communications services across their fleet of 103 ships.
This is a big win and following closely on the heels of an earlier win with Royal Caribbean gives us more than a third of the global passenger cruise market.
As we’ve seen with Royal Caribbean the unprecedented bandwidth we’re delivering to a cruise ship is causing cruise operators to rethink the services they can provide to improve passenger experience and crew morale driving bandwidth demand far higher than anticipated in the base contract.
This is a real positive development for our growing cruise business.
Now before turning it over to Gary to discuss segment financial results let me make a few comments on the recent budget deal.
First of all it mitigates the sequester burden and is a good first step towards more certainty in the government market.
At the funding line level we saw no big surprises.
Our major programs within government communications are well supported including all three FAA programs – FTI next-gen data comm and next-gen voice switching our classified programs as well as GOES-R F35 and F18.
In tactical radios the typical visible spending lines are about what we had expected.
The MMVR and HMS budgets were well funded at a level to support upcoming procurements.
There was no cut to SOCOM and the Navy the Marine Corps and Air Force took a little haircut from the President’s budget request but were in line with what we had planned.
Foreign military funding is up about 3% overall versus the prior year and at the country level our international FMF opportunities are well supported.
Of course we need to see how the funding flows down to individual programs but overall from what we’ve seen so far these are positive signs.
So as we look ahead we have a little more budget certainty more traction in international markets and we continue to ramp up our operational excellence initiatives to reduce cost while funding investment in R&amp;D and sales and marketing all of which have increased our confidence and led to us raising our fiscal ’14 earnings guidance.
And now I’ll turn it over to Gary to comment on segment results and guidance for 2014.
Gary? Thank you Bill and good morning everyone.
Moving to segment results on Slide 5 RF communication orders were $512 million compared to $402 million in the prior year and up 27%.
Revenue was up $455 million down 6% from prior year of $486 million.
Book-to-bill was 1.13.
In tactical communications orders were $387 million up 35% while revenue was $320 million declining 5%.
Both orders and revenue in the U.S.
were weak as anticipated while international revenue and orders were strong.
Book-to-bill for tactical was 1.21 and funded backlog increased sequentially from first quarter’s $664 million to $730 million.
Compared to this time last year backlog is up 30% and trending positive.
Public safety revenue in the quarter was $135 million declining 9% due to continued weakness across system and terminal sales in the state and local markets.
Public safety orders were $125 million up 8% and while orders have picked up and are up 10% in the first half they will not turn into revenue fast enough to drive revenue growth in the year and we now expect revenue to decline mid to high single digits for the full fiscal year.
The weakness is at last partially due to the market which was up 8% in calendar ’12 when our revenue grew 12%.
It was about flat in calendar ’13 with our revenue falling 7%.
We’ve responded by adding resources to drive growth including investing in sales marketing and new product development and we expect top line recovery to begin next fiscal year.
Operating income for the RF communications segments was $142 million with a 31.3% operating margin in the quarter compared to prior year’s 31.1%.
For the full year in RF communications we still expect flat revenue; however we now expect tactical communications revenue will be up low single digits driven by stronger international growth offset by revenue decline in public safety and we still expect an operating margin of about 30% for the year.
Turning now to Slide 6 and integrated network solutions second quarter segment revenue decreased 9% to $366 million.
Revenue growth in CapRocks energy and maritime markets and flat revenue in IT services was more than offset by lower government revenue in both CapRock and healthcare.
The government market for both of these businesses has been more challenging than expected with tighter funding and increased competition.
Segment orders were up year-over-year and were higher than revenue due to IT services and in CapRock’s energy and maritime markets.
CapRock also received a $75 million follow-on order from DISA to provide end-to-end managed terrestrial network services.
IT services orders included $61 million from the U.S.
Navy to extend continuity of services on the Navy Marine Corps intranet program through the end of our fiscal year and a $53 million follow-on order to operate and support the U.S.
Air Force Space Command’s 50<sup>th</sup> Space Wing.
IT services also was awarded a position on the six-year multi-vendor NETCENTS-2 Product IDIQ contract from the U.S.
Air Force with a $9 billion ceiling value.
Integrated network solutions segment operating income was $33 million flat compared with the prior year.
Operating margin was 8.9% and improved compared to 8.2% in the prior year as cost savings initiatives offset the impact of lower revenue and margin pressure from a very competitive government market environment.
Looking ahead to the full fiscal year for the segment we now expect the strength in CapRock’s commercial business which is trending towards double-digit growth will be more than offset by a weaker than expected government market in CapRock and healthcare and a slower revenue ramp in commercial healthcare.
Revenue for the segment is now expected to be down 5 to 6% and operating margin to be in the range of 8 to 9%.
Moving to Slide 7 revenue in government communications was $433 million increasing 1% from the prior year and higher in all three customer areas – civil classified and for the first time in nine quarters defense.
Major drivers included higher revenue from classified and space customers the ramp-up of FAA’s next-gen data comm program and the start of full-rate production on the Army’s MET sat comm terminal program all of which was partially offset by lower revenue from NOAA’s GOES-R weather program.
In the quarter Harris received orders of $46 million from the FAA for the next-gen data comm program and $31 million for avionics infrastructure for the F35 program as well as awards totaling $121 million from classified customers.
Operating income was $66 million and operating margin was strong at 15.4% as a result of good program performance.
For the year we now expect government communications revenue to be stronger than previously anticipated and have increased guidance from a range of down 5 to 7% to now down 1 to 3%.
We also expect a stronger operating margin closer to 15%.
Turning to Slide 8 free cash flow was $55 million versus $120 million last year and capital expenditures were $52 million compared to $39 million in the prior year.
Free cash flow was negatively impacted by a billing rate dispute with the U.S.
government which is close to being resolved and tactical orders booking late in the quarter.
We continue to expect free cash flow to be equal to or higher than net income.
During the quarter we repurchased about 787 000 shares for a total cash outlay of $50 million bringing first half repurchases to $150 million.
We now expect full-year repurchases of $300 million versus prior guidance of $200 million.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 32.6% and we still expect about 33% for the full fiscal year.
Moving to Slide 9 2014 EPS guidance has been increased from a range of $4.65 to $4.85 to a range of $4.80 to $4.90.
Revenue guidance remains unchanged with an expected decline of 1 to 3%.
<br>With that let me turn it back to you Bill.
Okay well thank you Gary.
On these calls I try to report the good with the bad and this quarter is no exception.
Overall we had a balanced quarter with solid earnings encouraging orders and increasing backlog with a number of positives including international strength stronger revenue in government communications IT services performing well in a touch market and commercial CapRock gaining momentum.
But as Gary pointed out there are pressure areas as well: performance in public safety healthcare not maturing quickly enough and a more challenging CapRock government market.
I can assure you that all of these areas are getting a lot of attention from senior management.
I know we have a lot of work to do and we’re going to say focused on it until we can demonstrate sustainably better results.
So with that I’d like to ask the operator to open the lines for questions.
Hey good morning all.
Just a couple of quick ones.
On PSPC weakness I wonder if you might just give us a little more color and help understand what’s going on there.
You mentioned timing of contracts but then also mentioned investments in new products.
I wonder is this more of a tighter competitive environment or is it more of a timing related end market customer sort of effect? Anything you can do to help us understand that better? Yeah Carter.
I think it’s a combination of both things.
As Gary mentioned we do see it’s partly the market.
The market was pretty strong in CY12 – calendar ’12 – and we were up above the market so we gained a bit of share.
That reversed itself in calendar ’13 when the market was more flattish and we were down 7 including down about 11 in our first half of our fiscal year.
So part of it is the market.
As I said on this call last number of quarters about eight of our last 10 quarters we had book-to-bill less than 1 and although we saw orders grow year-over-year in the first half – in fact up about 12% in Q1 7-ish in Q2 – it’s mostly in our programs business and that adds to backlog which is positive for us but the revenue impact from that is likely to move out of our fiscal year and into fiscal ’15.
As I said last time I think we’re really doing all the right things to grow our business.
We are investing in sales and marketing.
We’re adding sales people to drive our terminals business to capture large systems to work to convert some of the old analog systems to P25 including our own EDAC system.
So we’re adding sales and marketing resources and that does take time to return.
We’re also investing in new product development to add features to expand our offering and to reduce the cost of our product offering.
Again that also is adding cost and will pay back we believe over time.
I think as I step back I think the backlog remains pretty solid.
It’s about $600 million which is pretty much in line with where we were in fiscal ’13 sales so at least going backwards it’s about all of our ’13 sales in backlog today.
The opportunity pipeline is pretty good it’s pretty healthy.
We do think the market is going to return to its historic growth rate of 3 to 5% range over time and we think with the investments that we’re making and the organizational model we’re putting into place we think this could be a nice growth business for us.
Those are all the effects that are happening right now; we just don’t see it returning in the back half of our fiscal year.
Okay great.
And with respect to the RF guidance obviously you would assume that was a positive mix benefit with the tactical versus PSPC shift in the revenues but the margin guidance didn’t change.
Is that it just wasn’t material enough to change it or is there anything we’re missing there? No that would naturally drive you to that conclusion.
We so see some mix shifts in the back half.
We saw big international orders in the quarter which will turn into revenue in the back half and the international business especially with the systems and the product mix that we’re seeing there comes in at slightly lower margins than we have typically seen in the past.
But I think the bigger factor is that in December an official Army notification came out that opened up to full competition and multi-vendor the HMS program and we purposely held back investment on that until that officially came out.
We now will step up substantially in the back half on R&amp;D investment.
We’re in that business and we think we’re going to be very very competitive and we’re going to invest to be competitive.
So I think it’s more of a factor of the investment we see coming in the back half in IRAD.
That’s great.
Thanks.
I’ll let somebody else ask.
Sure.
Great thank you.
A question about INS – the reduction in revenue outlook there was fairly dramatic I guess fortunately offset by government communications.
Can you step through the elements of that reduction for the year? Sure Yair let me touch on that.
What we’re really seeing is further weakness in the government areas of CapRock and in healthcare being more severe than expected.
As we talked about in my remarks competitive pressures are higher than we thought they would be.
I think the government reduction in spending in these areas has only increased that.
Now we’ve taken steps that we think will make us more cost competitive in the back half but we do see that that part of the business is going to more than offset what we expect to have as double-digit growth in the CapRock energy and maritime businesses and hits doing a little bit better than the 10% down we said in the first half.
We think it will be now kind of low single digits down in the second half is why we came up with the guidance that we just provided.
Great.
And then just one more – your headquarters expenses stepped down nicely in the quarter and I just wanted to know whether the rate that we saw in 2Q is the right way to look at things going forward or whether there was anything that kept the expenses unusually low in 2Q.
We see quarter to quarter some variations and if you go back a number of quarters you’ll see some things moving around.
But Yair the long-term trend has been to bring down our corporate headquarter expenses starting a couple of years ago based on where the market happens to be so it’s part of a trend but I wouldn’t read too much into the quarter-to-quarter gyration.
So for the full year something in the low 60’s is still the way to think about it? Yeah that’s probably in the right ballpark.
Okay thank you.
Hi thank you.
Just staying with INS a couple more questions on that.
On your commentary you said CapRock commercial was trending towards double-digit.
Was it double-digit growth in the quarter and it sounds like you certainly expect it in the second half so what type of growth for the year are we seeing on CapRock commercial? Well very strong orders in the first half on the commercial side.
The revenue will follow that so the revenue’s positive growth wasn’t double digit in the first half but we do see it getting a bit stronger in the back half of the year on CapRock commercial.
And then on the commercial healthcare what’s the update now on Carefx and how do you see that and even more importantly on the margin side how has that been impacting margins? How has it factored in in the second half? You know Bill on the healthcare business about 70% of our business in healthcare is with the U.S.
government and I think we mentioned last time we lost a lot of re-competes at the VA where the market has shifted from development to sustainment that requires a lower cost structure.
We’ve leveraging what we have on our hits business which was a very low cost structure low RAP rate to improve our competitiveness on the government side but I don’t see that coming back in here.
So that’s on the government side of healthcare.
On the commercial side it’s about 30% of a relatively small healthcare business is commercial so read into that about $30 million to $40 million in revenue.
We are seeing a slower ramp of our clinical integration software.
We are installing it in four different customers in North America.
We have a pilot going on in the U.K.
with a partner in British Telecom.
<br>It’s not a shrink wrap-type installation.
It requires several months to connect all the departments the clinics the hospitals in the network.
We are at the beginning stages of the roll-out.
It’s too early to call success but keep in mind it’s a relatively small part of the overall company.
On the margin side if you go back and I’ll talk about really healthcare overall because that’s the broader entity we had a pretty big loss in fiscal ’12.
It was in the $18 million range.
We reduced it last year to about $7 million.
We’ve seen some contract losses again this year in the VA.
The spend for software development on the commercial side which has moved towards expense from being capitalized is also causing us some losses in the fiscal ’14 area and it’s undermining our progress.
We lost about $8 million in the first half of the year in healthcare as a whole.
We took a lot of actions in the second quarter which we think will improve our second half results but clearly we need to see a customer ramp-up and higher revenues to drive us to being profitable in the healthcare business.
Okay thank you.
Good morning.
Bill you highlighted several times the international strength in RF and I was wondering if you’d be willing to share what percentage of your tactical communication revenue this year you think now will be international or maybe percentage of the backlog or some such metric.
I’m not sure we’ll get into the backlog but I think we’ve said we’ve seen a trend moving from international being less than DoD in the past especially when we had the pretty big ramp-up in fiscal ’10 ’11 to now international is higher than DoD.
And I know Pam is going to cringe but it’s probably in a 60/40 range international to DoD this year on a revenue basis.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then could you provide your—you gave us your pipeline for international.
Could you give us that for domestic and then also for public safety? I’ll ask maybe Gary on the public safety side.
On the DoD side our pipeline 12- to 18-month pipeline is now about $900 million.
You may recall we had $1.1 billion in the last call.
About $250 million of the 900 is in pretty advanced stages of closure – it’s in proposal and closure phases.
Mostly supported by fiscal ’13 and ’14 funding lines plus what we’ve always said some not-so-visible lines about 55% of that backlog of—or that pipeline rather of $900 million is Air Force is the Marine Corps it’s SOCOM.
It’s all the modernization activities there all of which are standardizing on the Falcon 3.
About 10% of our pipeline is Army BCT modernization.
Last time that was 25% so about $250 million or so.
Today it’s 10% of the 900 so we’ve backed out based on what we’re seeing in those big HMS programs from our pipeline because that’s moving out to the right.
And the other 10%-ish is Army there’s 10% of so that’s spares and services a few other percentages that are more in specialized-type products – ISR tablets and other things.
But it’s $900 million today for DoD.
And then just on the public safety side? On the public safety side Joe the pipeline is pretty healthy at $2.4 billion and looking at the make-up of the pipeline there’s a lot of different opportunities across the board in the state and local.
It really isn’t the pipeline that’s the issues; it’s projects moving to the right and our win rate isn’t where it needs to be is the key area we’ve got to improve on.
Okay and then just one more quick one.
Bill you upped your share purchase guidance for the year by 100 million.
How are you thinking a little more broadly speaking looking forward not just for this year but into next year about cash deployment – you know dividend repurchase and any M&amp;A? Well we look at this on a long-term basis and nothing that we see today no current event is changing our strategy on capital deployment.
We remain committed to returning cash to shareholders in a small efficient way and if you remember and go back the last three years we’ve returned in the form of share repurchases and dividends about 90% of our free cash flow.
We continue to target a dividend payout ratio of about 30%.
As Gary mentioned we now expect about $300 million in our share buyback.
Joe you remember going back a couple of years we really have focused on free cash flow.
It’s now become part of our executive incentive compensation metrics.
We’re confident about achieving our full-year target of about 100% of net income and we are fully funding all of our internal needs.
We don’t see any significant M&amp;A on the near-term horizon.
We have no debt that’s due until the 2017 time period.
We’re pretty comfortable with $300 million or so of cash on our books which we typically carry towards the end of the year.
And as you run all that math it leaves us with some excess cash some of which we’ve now chosen to return to shareholders in a step-up in our buyback in the second half.
So that philosophy that approach that focus on free cash generation I don’t expect is going to change going forward any time soon.
Thanks.
Hi good morning everyone.
I wondered if you could go back to the announcement of jitter’s HMS moving to multi-vendor.
Is there anything you can share with us from a timeline perspective in terms of what you may expect or what we can look for on milestones along the way with the competition and eventual rewards? Yeah Noah there was an industry day back in December and there was some light shed on how the program is now expected to roll out.
Overall we’re seeing about a six to seven-month delay from what we had previously communicated.
It’s primarily due to the change in acquisition strategy which we view as a positive.
We now see for the Rifleman radio program above HMS we see the RFP coming out probably in the next month or so – we heard January February of ’14 so in the next month with an award probably the end of this calendar year.
It says in the documents Q1 fiscal ’15 so I’d read into that December of this year with first shipments starting in March of ’15.
For the Manpack we expect the RFP to come out sometime around April of this year so a couple months later.
The award in Q2 of fiscal ’15 so again I read into that about March of calendar ’15 with a shipment that’s starting around April of 2015 all of which are in support of the NIE of 16.1 and the fielding for capabilities at 16.
So when you look at the numbers and where the movement is we did pull this out of our 12- to 18-month pipeline as I mentioned to Joe’s question.
It then results in relatively limited sales for us at Harris Corporation in fiscal ’15 more of a ramp in that business more starting in fiscal ’16.
Okay that’s very helpful.
And then Bill I also wanted to ask you with the momentum you seem to be experiencing internationally I’m curious is there something that’s changed in the last three to six months about the total broader U.S.
contractor selling internationally process or is this more Harris company-specific stepping up the effort there? I guess—you know I do see a lot of our peer companies stepping up their efforts to sell internationally and you hear that in a lot of the calls.
I think for Harris international has been a big focus for us over many many years and we have an extremely well established dealer base especially on the tactical side and we saw international revenue step back while the DoD was pushed pretty hard over the last five six seven years with the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.
We are pushing international very very heavily and have been since I came a couple of years ago.
We’ve stepped up our focus.
We’re driving it very hard.
We’re putting resources in place.
We recently announced the appointment of a new president of our Brazil operations and we’re putting some resources there.
We’re pushing hard in the Middle East we see good growth in Asia.
So I think some of it is just what a lot of our peers are trying to do.
I do think we have somewhat of an advantage because we have a very well established base and we’re driving it very hard.
So our numbers if you go back to fiscal ’10 our revenue coming from international sources as a percent of the total was around 10%.
Last year it was around 26 and this year we expect it to be in the 29%-plus range.
So I think overall pretty good results.
Okay.
Just one other quick one.
The CAPEX number stepped up pretty noticeably in the quarter which it doesn’t usually do seasonally.
What drove that and what does that do in the back half? Yeah we’ll see this year capital spending to be up over last year and it’s really just a couple of things.
One is we’ve got a building we’re constructing for the GCS business in Palm Bay a new engineering facility which was started a number of years ago and we’ expect to complete that by the end of this year or early calendar ’15; and then a pretty big software investment upgrade at RF communications.
So those are the two biggest events and that will drive our capital spending up as a whole this year for Harris.
Have you quantified that for the year? Yeah I’d say year-over-year it will be up about $70 million just in those two areas - $50 million up this year in the building and about $20 million higher year-over-year for the software.
And total CAPEX I think we report in the Q and we’re expecting around $250 million for capital expenditures this year.
Got it.
Okay thank you.
Hey thanks.
I was hoping you could comment on the $2.2 billion foreign pipeline and maybe just articulate how that looks over the next six months versus over the balance of that 12- to 18-month period.
That’s a good question Gautam and I’m not sure we’ll get at the next six months.
I think that’s cutting that a little bit tighter than we’d want but I’m happy to comment on the shape of the pipeline and then you can read in what you wish.
But as we mentioned it’s about $2.2 billion.
It’s about the same as the first quarter and we have about $600 million that are in the proposal and closure phase so I guess you could read that that is more near-term than the balance of the pipeline.
It is very healthy.
It continues to firm – we feel pretty good about that.
As I said last time more than half of it comes out of the Middle East and Asia.
We know that Iraq is a big part of our pipeline.
There’s a country in Africa.
We see several other countries in the Middle East a couple countries in central Asia.
All are in that category that gives us confidence that more than half of it is coming from the Middle East and Asia.
We see about 15% or so coming from coalition countries that are deploying wide-band and you see that as some of the big order that came in Q2.
In Australia we see more opportunities over the next 12 to 18 months and we see Latin America firming up – that’s about 15 to 20% of our pipeline.
Brazil looks pretty good Mexico looks pretty good Colombia a few other countries there are in that pipeline.
And the rest would be just a group of smaller countries sprinkled in there.
So that sort of gives us some characterization of our overall pipeline.
I wouldn’t comment more than that on what the next six months may look like.
Fair enough.
Within the Middle Eastern piece which it seems like you have a concentration are there any that stand out as particularly large awards and if you could just give us a sense for the size of those.
I mean Iraq you’ve mentioned in the past but— Yeah what we’ve talked about is—I mean Saudi’s got a pretty big long-term pipeline.
Certainly Iraq is pretty sizeable.
UAE is a good opportunity for us.
I think those are the more significant ones but there are opportunities going forward in we believe Oman and Yemen and Jordan and other places.
But I think those are the biggest ones.
And then if you could just comment—I mean on the HMS multi-vendor how do you expect to—how are you going to manage margins in that environment because presumably with multi-vendor you’re going to have persistent price competition on the incremental orders.
So if you could just walk through what you expect pricing to do over the next several years and how you expect to manage the margins thanks.
Well Gautam it’s a very good question and I know it’s on the minds of many people.
The RFPs aren’t out yet so it’s tough to comment on what the pricing is going to be or pricing trends but I would say relative to that particular program – and I alluded to this in my prepared remarks – we’ve got enormous scale in this business with a very very large international tactical radio business that’s manufactured along the same lines that we manufacture our DoD business in one facility in Rochester New York so that gives us very big scale advantages and I think that could be brought to bear to be very price competitive where we need to be from a pricing perspective and yet still maintain strong margins in that business.
I also don’t think it’s necessarily over time going to be just simply a price shoot-out on task orders because we will continue to invest as we always do in driving innovation and we will always invest to put more technology into the product to differentiate our solution and hopefully that will end up allowing us to preserve pricing and preserve margin in the business.
So that’s our expectation but you should expect that with the investment we’re making in R&amp;D in the back half stepping up from the front half that we’re committed to the business and we’re going to invest to win.
Maybe I’ll just ask another one then.
You mentioned—you know in MMVR you basically were the 100% share winner.
On HMS do you have a sense for where the government wants to go whether they want to split it 50/50 or among three suppliers or are they going to be comfortable awarding a large percentage of the requirement to one vendor? Yeah we really don’t know Gautam at this point.
In fact we believe there’s going to be multiple vendors – going to be at least two – and it depends on what the program of record does – is it going bidding as one or is it going to be bidding as two on the Manpack and the Rifleman? And it depends.
So if they bid as two and us that could be three awards.
How the government decides to split it up is unknown to us.
We’re confident that there’s a long-term big opportunity based on the acquisition objective which in the ADM that came out in December didn’t—it was reemphasizing the same sets of numbers that we’ve seen in the past in terms of the Manpack.
So we don’t know how many bidders are going to be there but we fully expect to be one and we fully expect to win our fair share of the awards going forward.
Thanks a lot.
Operator I think we have one more person in the queue.
Good morning.
On the energy side of CapRock has the success been (audio interference) the existing rigs or moving on to these new larger more sophisticated deepwater rigs? You know it’s really both actually.
We are winning more content on existing rigs and we are finding ways of winning share in some of the new vessels that are being launched so it’s really both of them Josh.
Okay.
And just on the Carnival wins what does the contract structure look like? Is it a big upfront payment with a long tail in service? You know we’re not going to get into the specific details of how the contract has been constructed.
It is a five-year deal.
We are precluded from talking about the amount of the deal but similar to what we see elsewhere in CapRock there is equipment installation up front but then there is recurring revenue that comes back over time.
I don’t think we’ll talk more about the contract structure than that.
Okay thank you.
Operator I think we have one more person in the queue.
Thank you good morning.
Bill in light of your comments that you see the HMS program mainly contributing revenue in fiscal ’16 anything to say on fiscal ’15 expectations for the DoD tactical portion of the business in terms of growth? Well I think it’s too soon to talk about fiscal ’15.
We just saw some of the line item detail in the appropriations on fiscal ’14.
We know that we have a top line number for DoD in fiscal ’14.
We’re four to six weeks away I believe from a President’s budget coming out that would give us I think a little more insight into his and the DoD’s spending priorities on how much they will plan to spend on force structure versus investment accounts and modernization.
And once we know that we’ll know more about that the shape of ’15 looks like than we know today so I wouldn’t get out beyond talking about fiscal ’14 at this point.
We’ll share with you as we learn more about that budget and it’s implications for Harris going forward.
Okay thanks.
That’s helpful Bill.
All right thank you everyone for joining us today.
Appreciate it.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Harris Corporation Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Pamela Padgett Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our Third Quarter Fiscal 2014 Earnings Call.
I'm Pamela Padgett.
And on the call today is Bill Brown Chairman and CEO; and Mick Lopez Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
And before we get started a few words on forward-looking statements.
In the course of this teleconference management may make forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements involve assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those statements.
For more information and a discussion of such assumptions risks and uncertainties please see the press release and filings made by Harris with the SEC.
In addition on this teleconference and the related presentation we may discuss certain financial measures and information that are non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to the comparable GAAP measures is included on the Investor Relations section of our website which is www.harris.com.
A replay of this call will also be available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
And with that Bill I'll turn it over to you.
Okay.
Well thank you Pam and good morning everybody.
Third quarter results were solid with revenue and earnings per share above prior year which was impacted by the triggering of sequestration.
Government Communications Systems and international tactical radio within RF Communications had excellent revenue growth in the quarter and both segments produced strong bottom line performance.
Our strategy to lower costs while increasing R&amp;D to drive growth and international expansion is serving us well in this constrained government budget environment and was evident in this quarter's results.
Company-funded R&amp;D was up 10% in the quarter and for the year is expected to be up high single digits similar to last year's 8% increase.
Total international revenue for the year for the company was up 39% in the third quarter and up 15% year-to-date.
And we're on track to increase international revenue for the company from 26% in fiscal '13 to around 29% this year.
Turning to Slides 3 and 4 of the presentation.
Revenue was up 5%.
Income from continuing operations was up 10%.
And earnings per share was up 13% to $1.27.
Earnings per share included a $0.02 net benefit from out-of-period adjustments and Mick will describe the impact by segment.
It's also worth noting that the prior year quarter benefited from a retroactive R&amp;D tax credit of about $7 million.
Orders in the quarter were about $1.1 billion and book-to-bill was 0.88.
Year-to-date book-to-bill remained above 1 and we ended the quarter with strong funded backlog of $3.3 billion down a bit from the previous quarter's $3.4 billion but up 4% year-over-year.
Strong international revenue growth drove revenues up 21% in Tactical Communications.
International orders were up over the prior year and included 2 significant orders of $82 million and $49 million from countries in Asia that are part of larger opportunities.
And we continue to make progress in the lengthy procurement process for what are significant multiyear modernization opportunities in Iraq.
Our international tactical pipeline is healthy and it expanded a bit in the quarter to $2.3 billion from a previous $2.2 billion.
The pipeline replenishing itself after the large orders we booked in our second and third quarters is encouraging as it points to continuing underlying market strength.
It also reflects our strong competitive position and the investments we've made over the last several years in feet on the ground and new product development.
And those investments are bearing fruit with the recent launch of 2 new products for the international market the wideband HF radio and the multiband handheld radio which achieved close to $100 million of revenue in the quarter.
In the U.S.
market as expected the Tactical business continues to be soft as a result of DoD budget pressures.
Modernization is a significant opportunity.
The services are committed and it's progressing although slower than hoped.
While constrained the U.S.
market is still substantial and our 12- to 18-month opportunity pipeline remains stable at $1 billion up a bit from $900 million last quarter.
Recent news on the Army's multibillion dollar modernization effort has been mixed.
As we've talked about before the Army's decision to change their procurement strategy to open competition and multi-vendor awards is a positive development for Harris.
But it has caused a lengthy process of revising RFPs to reflect the new acquisition strategy and further delays for both the manpack and Rifleman Radio procurements.
With procurements delayed funding has pushed out.
The president's budget request reflects a 1-year cut in JTRS funding in government fiscal year '15 to around $185 million rebounding to the $400 million annual level in GFY '16 to '19 pending the resolution of sequestration.
The GFY '15 funding cut is likely due to the significant carryover of unspent funds from prior years that's built up from procurement delays.
Earlier this month progress was made when the Army finalized and awarded the $988 million multi-vendor IDIQ contract for SRW or Soldier Radio Waveform appliqué systems.
Our offering is for 2 different solutions and with our SRW appliqués already proven and fielded with the Army we feel confident about our ability to compete.
Prior to contract award Harris received a $4.3 million order from the Army in July of 2013 and to date has sold $10 million in appliqués to the Army for earlier BCT fieldings.
Now I want to highlight a couple of new product milestones in the quarter.
We received our first order from a DoD customer for the new RF-340M multichannel manpack which was originally developed to compete in the Army's JTRS procurement.
This first order not only validates our solution but has appealed to customers other than the Army.
And we're seeing strong interest from customers in the international markets as well.
Our multichannel manpack is 1/3 smaller and lighter than the HMS program of record radio and all of the waveforms are incorporated into the radio so the soldier doesn't need to carry add-on appliqués to run a full set of waveforms.
We also designed expansion slots into the radio for accommodating a customer's unique mission requirements such as specialized waveforms ISR capabilities like data links and signal detection or commercial SATCOM access.
And we're taking this same radio to the airborne tier where we'll have an equally capable and differentiated product.
Another encouraging milestone on the JTRS front was receiving NSA certification on the RF-330E Wideband Team Radio which was developed for the upcoming rifleman radio competition.
And I'll finally mention reaching an important product milestone for incorporating the powerful MUOS waveform into our radios successfully passing the fourth consecutive test event.
MUOS or the Mobile User Objective System is the DoD's next-generation military SATCOM system which I should mention also uses Harris reflectors and will deliver cellular-based service through tactical radios.
We're not only embedding this critical capability into our new multichannel manpack but offering it as a separate software upgrade for existing Falcon III 117G wideband radios.
This creates a unique opportunity to add MUOS capability to potentially 30 000 fielded Harris radios through a simple and fast software upgrade.
It provides the DoD with a cost-effective and compelling solution for rapidly transitioning its inventory to MUOS-capable radios and is an excellent way to maximize the use of the satellite infrastructure while awaiting JTRS procurements.
And our customers agree.
During the quarter we received a $45 million order from a DoD customer who had current wideband radio requirements but also wanted the added flexibility of a software upgrade pack for future enhancements such as MUOS.
This followed an initial order for $26 million that we received from this customer in May of last year.
Now turning to Government Communications.
Revenue was up 11% and higher again this quarter in all 3 business areas of civil national intelligence and defense.
Diversification and leveraging core technologies to address adjacencies with existing and new customers is providing resiliency in the current budget environment.
An excellent example of this success is the Aireon hosted payload program which was a major revenue driver in the quarter successfully completing critical milestone testing and beginning full rate production.
Under the original agreement Harris is providing 81 ADS-B receiver payloads to be flown on Iridium NEXT to provide a satellite-based global aircraft tracking system a capability separate from the main mission of a constellation.
But we've also added other customers and so far have increased the number of payloads by almost 50% above the original contract with the potential to add more significantly increasing the value of this program.
This piggyback approach of using commercially hosted payloads to support multiple missions both government and commercial is more cost effective and significantly shortens the time to mission compared to the historical model of building and launching separate exquisite satellite solutions for each and every mission requirement.
Harris is at the forefront of this new approach.
The Aireon program is the largest implementation of a commercially hosted satellite payload to date leveraging our long and successful history of supplying space electronics and reflectors for government and commercial markets.
In Integrated Network Solutions the segment continues to be less resilient in the current environment and posted a weaker-than-expected quarter.
IT Services the profitable NMCI contract is winding down by the end of the fiscal year and new awards have been slow to materialize.
In Healthcare Solutions we're implementing our new software platform at initial customer sites.
And while we're making progress in proving out the technology we need scale to reach profitability.
In CapRock the commercial business is progressing nicely and had good growth in the quarter but was more than offset by government weakness.
The bottom line is that we're not satisfied with the results in this segment and we're increasing our focus to improve performance.
Now before moving to the discussion on segment information I'd like to take a moment and introduce our new Chief Financial Officer Mick Lopez.
Mick joined us in February and he brings more than 30 years of experience across a number of different companies such as IBM Cisco Systems and Tyco.
He joined us from a company called Aricent a global services company owned by KKR and their affiliates where he was Chief Financial Officer.
Mick has served in all the various finance functions in the U.S.
as well as internationally in Brazil and Europe.
He is a seasoned global finance executive who brings a passion for developing talent and driving excellence in financial systems and processes.
So with that introduction I'll turn it over to Mick to comment on segment results and revised guidance for fiscal 2014.
Mick? Thank you Bill and good morning to everyone.
It's a real privilege to join the team at Harris.
Moving to segment results on Slide 5.
RF Communications orders were $405 million compared to $486 million in the prior year.
Revenue was $457 million up 9% from $418 million last year.
In Tactical Communications orders were $285 million compared to $297 million in the prior year.
Tactical revenue was $335 million up 21% from $276 million last year.
In international revenue and orders were strong and higher than in the prior year.
In the United States both revenue and orders were weak but in line with our internal expectations.
Public Safety orders were $120 million compared to $189 million in the prior year.
Revenue was $122 million compared to $142 million last year.
The Public Safety market was weaker than expected.
Operating income for the RF Communications segment was $144 million with a 31.4% operating margin.
Excluding the out-of-period adjustment operating margin was 30.8%.
For the full year in RF Communications we continue to expect flat revenue for the segment.
Tactical Communications revenue is up mid-single digit which is slightly higher than previously expected on strength in international but offset by weakness in Public Safety.
We now expect operating margin to be in a range of 30.5% to 31%.
Let's turn now to Integrated Network Solutions segment on Slide 6.
Despite growth in the commercial side of the segment both orders and revenues were down compared to the prior year as a result of continued government market weakness.
Revenue decreased 7% to $348 million and was down across the segment in IT Services CapRock and Healthcare.
Excluding the out-of-period adjustment revenue would have been down 6% with government weakness more than offsetting a double-digit increase in commercial CapRock revenue.
Segment operating income was $21 million and operating margin was 6.1%.
Excluding the out-of-period adjustments operating margin was 7.3%.
IT Services orders included a $21 million follow-on order from the Canadian Department of National Defense for the CF-18 Avionics Optimized Weapons Systems Support program.
CapRock orders included $17 million from an international oil and gas drilling company.
At Healthcare Solutions we introduced FusionFX a vendor-neutral suite of software tools that brings together patient information across the entire continuum of care.
FusionFX provides flexibility and scalability as health systems grow merge and consolidate.
The solution is currently live in 3 customers covering 29 hospitals and has over 1 000 clinician and 40 000 patient users.
For the full year segment revenue is now expected to be down 8% to 9% and operating margin in the range of 7% to 8%.
Moving to Slide 7.
Revenue in Government Communications segment was $477 million increasing 11% from last year.
Major revenue drivers included the Army's MET SATCOM terminals F-35 FAA's NextGen DataComm program and the Aireon hosted payload program.
Operating income was $77 million compared with $67 million in the prior year and operating margin was 16.2%.
Excluding the out-of-period adjustment operating margin was 15.2%.
Harris was awarded an 8-year single-award IDIQ follow-on contract for $133 million for the U.S.
Navy's Commercial Broadband Satellite program bringing total potential program value to more than $250 million.
Harris also received awards from classified customers totaling $59 million.
For the full year Government Communications revenue is now expected to be stronger than previously anticipated at about flat for the year with an operating margin of about 15.5%.
Turning to Slide 8.
Free cash flow was $120 million versus $185 million last year.
Capital expenditures in the quarter were $55 million compared to $49 million in the prior year due to continued investment in our new facility at Government Communications and enterprise software upgrades at RF Communications.
We expect that free cash flow for the year will be about equal to net income.
During the quarter we used $64 million in cash to repurchase about 897 000 shares which brings year-to-date repurchases to $214 million.
We continue to expect full year repurchases of $300 million.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 31.8% and is now expected to be about 32.5% for the full year.
Let's move on to Slide 9.
Fiscal 2014 earnings per share guidance has been increased by $0.10 on the top and bottom end of the range to our new guidance of $4.90 to $5 per share.
Revenue is now expected to decline 2% to 3% from last year.
Back to you Bill.
Okay.
Well thank you Mick.
The core of our company is providing mission-critical advanced communications that are differentiated through innovation and technology.
This is reading through in our solid results this quarter and our expectations for the year.
Our commercial business model gives us a competitive advantage in the speed in which we develop and field new products with attractive margins.
Our commitment to innovation will continue to bear fruit as the DoD adapts to operating under constrained budgets and relies more on industry to invest in new technologies that create affordable solutions that can be delivered quickly.
And with that I'd like to ask the operator to open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Lucy Guo of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is Lucy Guo calling in for Gautam Khanna.
So I wanted to ask about your opportunities in the Middle East.
You have talked about continued progress toward a multiyear for Falcon III radios and upgrades in Iraq.
And then similarly Saudi is another area of opportunity.
Do you have a better idea on the timing of these? Well Lucy.
First of all thank you very much for the question.
As I mentioned the pipeline overall for international -- and I think you're referring specifically to the Tactical business so let me just clarify that.
The total pipeline is $2.3 billion.
It was $2.2 billion last time.
So it's still pretty good and we've got about $900 million that are in the sort of the final stages closure or proposal stage.
So we're feeling pretty good about the advancement of opportunities through the pipeline.
To your point about the Middle East well more than half of our pipeline is for the Middle East and Asia and it really does relate to those issues I've talked about in the past the security issues we do see the U.S.
pulling back from those markets.
Iraq is a very big opportunity for us and we've been working on this for a number of years.
We've got an extremely good dealer in place there.
It's probably one of the biggest multiyear opportunities that Harris and Tactical faces.
We just yesterday were able to confirm that we received our very first order in the last couple of years in Iraq.
It's for $15 million.
So that is going to be booked in the coming days.
We received confirmation last night.
So that to me Lucy is good encouragement that these opportunities that we've been talking about for quite some time in Iraq are progressing and we do see opportunities that are quite a bit larger than that in the near-term pipeline.
We continue to have very very strong business with that country in Northern Africa that we've talked about before.
The UAE is a very big opportunity for us as is Saudi and we booked a number opportunities over the last year year and a half.
And we see more coming down the path.
And that's a little more than half of our total pipeline for international.
The other 25% or so is coalition countries that are deploying wideband.
That's gaining some strength.
We see continued -- about 15% of our pipeline in Latin America in Brazil Columbia Mexico remain the biggest opportunities in those marketplaces.
But of course there's other opportunities really around the world that are a little bit smaller in nature.
But clearly the biggest opportunity is in the Middle East and I'm glad to be able to say that we've seen one come through the pipe late last night in Iraq.
So thank you Lucy.
LLC Research Division</strong> So as a follow-up the SRW opportunity that you had booked an IDIQ contract on how shall we think about that going forward? Well I think we're very well positioned.
As I mentioned in my prepared remarks we were 1 of 2 that have actually been selling SRW appliqués to the Army.
They've been tested.
We have actually 2 solutions that were bid.
Of course as you saw in the press release there's 4 companies that received IDIQ awards but we feel very good very well positioned.
And frankly we're encouraged about the size of the IDIQ $988 million total contract value total possibility.
And we're also encouraged by the fact that it is now finally out in the street and awarded which means that there's some intention to place some orders against it Lucy.
So we're encouraged.
Our next question is from Yair Reiner of Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Nice growth year-over-year.
If I look at the guidance implied for the fourth quarter it suggests less of a sequential increase than you typically see.
Was there anything unusual about the third quarter results that make the fourth quarter compare more challenging this year? Is the seasonality in that business changing? Just if you can give us some sense of kind of what's been happening below the surface there.
Yair are you talking about revenue or operating margin? Research Division</strong> Revenue.
But if you want to speak to operating margin that will be helpful as well.
Well the revenue was up quite a bit in the quarter only because -- partly because of the easy compare and I think we acknowledged that in the prepared remarks last year around third quarter.
You remember with sequestration being triggered that caused some disruption in the business.
But tactical international was extremely strong in the quarter and that was the big driver in our third quarter.
On the margin side we did see very very good margins over the course of the first 3 quarters of the year sort of on average for RF Comm in the 31.5% range.
Of course Mick did mention that we had a modest out-of-period adjustment that did help us in Q3 in the RF Comm segment.
We've been saying before and I'll mention it again today that we do see our R&amp;D investments sales and marketing investments ramping quite a bit.
It didn't ramp as much in Q3 as we had anticipated but they certainly will ramp pretty steeply in Q4 primarily for these modernization opportunities in the manpack and the MUOS developments that we've been focused on and I mentioned in my prepared remarks.
So we do see a pretty substantial ramp in investment coming in Q4.
And also we're a little bit impacted in the quarter by mix in the international side.
So through the year we're still in that 30.5% to 31% and we feel pretty good about where we happen to be.
And I think if you look at the numbers closely you'll see that we're going to be up sequentially in Q4 from Q3.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then just another one on RF.
In terms of the U.S.
pipeline can you reconcile the comments on the one hand in terms of the pipeline being up a little bit quarter-on-quarter? On the other hand if you look at the 5-year budget for the DoD it looks like there are pretty significant cuts in the forecasts in terms not just of JTRS but also of the MNVR radio.
Yes I would say look we -- we're floating around $900 million to $1 billion.
And frankly we're encouraged it's stable.
I wouldn't read too much versus into $900 million versus $1 billion.
Of course you know that we get funding not just for those -- from those typical line items you see.
At the high level in comes in lots of line items buried in budgets including from some O&amp;M accounts.
So I wouldn't -- yes we're aware of some of the push-out of some of the bigger things that we've talked about in Army modernization but there's lots of line items that drive it.
So we feel comfortable at about $1 billion of pipeline.
We are seeing with the drawdown of activities in Iraq drawn down and Afghanistan drawing down that there are some reset opportunities that are coming to bear.
There are some modernization opportunities outside of the Army that are entering the pipeline.
More than half of our pipeline itself is Air Force Marine Corps SOCOM modernization.
And we've said before they standardized on the Falcon III technology.
So that still remains robust.
And -- but if you go into the line item details SOCOM funding remains pretty strong.
We only see about 10% of our total pipeline related to Army BCT modernization.
We do see a lot of other Army programs unrelated to modernization in our pipeline.
So overall about $1 billion floating between $900 million and $1 billion.
But again I'm encouraged that's remaining about flat in the environment we happen to be in here.
Our next question is from Carter Copeland of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a clarification and a couple of questions for you Bill.
The comment you made around the JTRS appropriations being down yet the unspent funds I think you implied providing a bit of support.
Does that kind of point to flattish overall funding profile or work profile there? Or is it just too uncertain with the procurement delays you talked about before? Yes no it's -- well first of all it's still very very uncertain because in the President's budget it assumes sequestration resolved as you know in GFY '16.
That's still a wildcard out there.
We know that.
We recognize that.
If you look in his budget for '16 all of the funding line items come back snap back up.
But we'll see as the next year or 2 go by whether that's actually going to take place.
There is -- there are unspent funds in the JTRS procurement line items from prior years.
It's in that range of $300 million plus or minus.
And there's -- I think with a little bit more coming in GFY '15 about $185 million I think is what's in the President's budget we feel pretty good about the overall level of funding.
The -- when we'll -- we talk about our own profile here we've said that the JTRS Army modernization opportunities won't be impacting our fiscal '15.
If anything they're going to start to roll in in our fiscal '16 and we've said that in our last call as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And on the INS side Mick I wondered if you might help us clarify.
With respect to that 6% adjusted decline in revenues how did the pieces compare to that average in terms of above or below at IT Services and Healthcare and CapRock? Yes let me give some clarification about the out-of-period adjustments.
As we noted there were 2 of them.
Neither is significant for total Harris and especially when netted out.
And as we said in total they provided only $0.02 of earnings per share.
For INS there were the 2 where one was on post-employment benefits adjustment and the other one negatively affected their revenues and cost.
The one for post-employment benefits positively impacted ESA which is engineering sales and admin expenses for all the segments.
And for INS we had some of that but we also had about -- a drop in the revenue and a small increase in charges for the cost and that dropped their margin by 1.2%.
[Indiscernible].
Yes within -- yes within INS most of the positive benefit affected the IT Services business and most of the negative benefit was booked within the CapRock segment.
Research Division</strong> Okay but with respect to -- you highlighted the downward pressure on the government SATCOM piece at CapRock.
Was the CapRock piece the low -- the largest decliner in the quarter of the sub-groups? Go ahead.
I'm not sure I'm following the question Carter.
Research Division</strong> Within -- I was saying with respect to the whole group's sales growth I'm trying to figure out which one of the sub-groups within there was the largest decliner.
I'm just trying to put some numbers around the comments around the declines at each one of the businesses.
Yes I think HITS was -- the IT Services business was down as well as the government part of both CapRock and Healthcare were both down.
And they were down pretty substantially in the quarter HITS.
So in the sort of the in the 10%-ish range.
And the other 2 businesses are down in -- north of 20%.
But what we're encouraged by was the growth on the commercial side of CapRock which was up in the quarter by 6% reported.
When we adjust for this out-of-period adjustment that Mick mentioned that affected revenue as well CapRock commercial was up about 12% in the quarter.
So hopefully that hit the question Carter.
Research Division</strong> Yes that totally helps.
And then with respect to the comment in Healthcare that you made about scale I mean obviously you've been through quite a restructuring process there and product rollout and whatnot.
When you think about the scale you need to have to reach the kind of levels of profitability that you've outlined in the past how does that compare to where you are today? Well look we've -- we have to grow the business.
What I was encouraged about over the last 3 or 4 months is that the solution that we call FusionFX now that the solution that's now installed and operating at 3 different customers 29 hospitals is stable is performing well.
Customer are excited about it.
There's more clinicians coming on to the system more patients coming on to the system.
And I'm encouraged by this very complicated piece of software is stable.
And that was our first hurdle to get over was getting a piece of technology that worked and I think we have something.
Now what we have to do is find partners to help us grow and scale the business.
This -- Harris is not -- does not have deep domain expertise in commercial health care.
We don't have a robust channel that's built.
And we're going to need some support some partner help in growing our business.
It will need to grow pretty substantially on the commercial side for us to reach profitability.
But it's more important -- not so much the size but as -- the mix has to shift from installing systems to converting to license revenue.
And that will happen Carter as we bring on more customers and start to grow the business and scale the business.
And our next question is from Joe Nadol of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Chris Sands on for Joe.
I was hoping you could elaborate on kind of the outlook for Public Safety.
It was kind of down again sequentially in the quarter.
You talked about orders being up in the first half but they wouldn't translate soon enough.
When can we expect that to kind turn? Well look as we talked about last time the -- in Public Safety the issues that we're seeing is both market and execution.
And I talked a lot about last time some of the sort of executional issues that we're seeing.
Some of it is delayed rollouts of some systems.
There are some customer issues that are associated with that.
Some of it is getting in early enough on large procurements so we can shape the RFPs where we're adding sales and marketing resources we're adding resources to improve our product offering.
All of those things we're working on.
We've got some new leadership in place.
We're augmenting our teams.
But as I cautioned last time these things will take time.
They won't fix themselves over 1 or 2 quarters.
It'll take a little bit of time.
What we're also facing now today though Chris is a weaker environment and that is a little bit worse than we expected last quarter.
And I think as our peers and competitors in the space will report we're all seeing a bit of weakness.
Part of it may be some of the rebanding that happened 1.5 years 2 years ago and the effect it had on the overall market.
We are seeing municipal budgets be better but it's not flowing through into an uptick yet in Public Safety communications.
That will over time but we're not seeing it at the moment.
It could be -- and I think it -- we have to believe that the prospect and uncertainty around how LTE will roll out has to be having some impact on how customers are thinking about investments in LMR digital technology with the prospect of LTE down the path.
So we don't know how this is all going to shake itself out.
We do see our Q4 being better than Q3 but I'm not going to call success in Q4 and we'll come back in late July when we give our Q4 report and our full year fiscal report and give some guidance for next year.
We'll have a lot more insight into what's happening in the market our ability to compete and what that might be for fiscal '15.
But again the market's a little bit softer today than we had first expected.
Longer term we know what's going to happen here.
We know the customers' analog systems will have to shift to digital.
We know that LTE is going to come at some point in time and customers will shift again.
That's going to be a growth driver for the company.
It's going to be a driver for the market itself.
And we're investing to be prepared to be successful when those things happen.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just a follow-up and switching to Government Comms.
The margin was strong in the quarter.
I mean if you think going forward is around 16% something you can sustain going into fiscal '15? Or if not what are some of the moving pieces there? Yes.
I wouldn't get too far ahead of yourself on 16%.
I think we had a very strong quarter.
Again it was 16.2%.
But again keep in mind it was -- when you adjust for sort of the onetime it was on the order of about 15.2%.
So pretty much in line with where we've been year-to-date and what we're guiding to for the year.
So again we're still in that 15% to 15.5% range.
The team in GCS continues to execute very very well.
The award fees certainly in the front half of the year were very very good.
We see -- we continue to see margins in this 13% to 14% being sustainable over time in GCS.
Keep in mind as you know the market very very well as you roll on new programs they tend to come in at lower margins.
And over time as you work and you drive efficiencies you can try to extend the margins is what we've seen.
So it will depend upon the mix of new programs.
As we see like the DCIS the NVS programs in FAA roll in they tend to come in at lower margins and that's going to impact GCS over time.
So I'd keep in my mind 13% to 14% not 16%.
Our last question is from Josh Sullivan of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I'll just go back into that government operating margin question.
You guys obviously did a lot of restructuring last year and it's obviously having an impact here.
But can you maybe give us an idea of the longevity of these actions just given your fixed contract mix and these re-competes coming up? I mean how should we think of timing-wise that rolling through? Yes look the -- clearly 15% 15.5% margins this year are positively impacted by some of the restructuring activities.
It's impacted by some of the activities in driving operational excellence at GCS.
A lot of it is they just have been performing very very well.
They've got tremendous customer intimacy.
And that -- when you perform well on time with that focus on the customer mission what ends up happening is the award fees tend to be relatively strong and that's in fact what happened.
In operational excellence when we provide guidance to investors in this area we do it specifically knowing that some of what we say needs to go back to the customer when we have cost-plus-type programs.
Roughly half of GCS is fixed price and roughly half is cost-plus.
So a lot of what we see in restructuring and operational excellence programs does roll through and affect our ROS.
And that is what you're seeing this year in fact last year in the growth over the last couple of years.
Again as we go out into next year we'll provide guidance in late July on what we see to be the revenue and market environment the ROS for GCS into fiscal '15.
But again I keep in my mind in that 13% 14% range over time as opposed to the very strong performance we're seeing this year of around 15.5%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last one on CapRock.
The government weakness how much of that is related to just OPTEMPO in Afghanistan versus say sequestration? It's some of that but not the bulk of it.
A lot of it has to do with 1 year or 2 ago the -- there was a contract vehicle that was opened up and competed on with some of the satellite owners and they won a contract vehicle and they are basically providing some bandwidth directly to the U.S.
government which in the past went through "brokers" like our CapRock government business.
So that is now going direct and it's impacting our business.
We're seeing some pricing pressure in our terrestrial business as well which has been opened to competition as well.
We're seeing some pressure on that side.
There is some related to the drawdown.
That's not bulk of it.
All right.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
Ladies and gentlemen this will conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Joe Nadol of JPMorgan.
You may begin.
On the ’15 outlook what is your plan for domestic versus international tactical radio growth if you are willing to share that? At RF overall it's flat to down 3 and we see tactical down low single-digits.
We see the international side up low single digits and on the DoD side down low double digits so read that 10% - 12% in that range.
So that’s a complete -- I mean PSPC is about flat just sort of complete the circle on the RF Com segment.
And then just on the international front you upped -- you did some commentary certainly already and you upped your pipeline and you said I think it was early stage opportunities.
I was wondering if maybe you could help us think through that 2.5 billion from a timing standpoint are there near term bulky or good size orders out there that you think you can pull in before the end of the calendar year and then maybe a little more color on what the early stage opportunities look like? Yes the pipeline came up a little bit and it was as I did mention some earlier stage opportunities but we still feel very confident about the size of the pipeline.
As I mentioned coming off the year where we booked a lot of good orders and grew our business by 25% which I think is astounding to see the pipeline replenish itself and actually grow a little bit.
I think it's very very significant to us.
We see about 750 million of that 2.5 billion that are in the proposal closure finalization stage so the probability is very high.
The timing Joe as you know is always a bit difficult to predict.
The shape of the pipeline looks pretty much in-line with what I mentioned last time it's slightly more than half the Middle-East and Central Asia where we know that our number of security concerns you can pick up a paper and read about that quite a bit and U.S.
is pulling back.
Iraq is significant I mentioned that last time and it remains a significant component of our pipeline today.
It's both the Ministry of Interior as well as the Ministry of Defense we booked an order very recently in Q4 it's little small but I think it was significant.
It has gotten through the vast majority of the licensing from the U.S.
government.
So it feels very very good.
We see opportunities in the country in Northern Africa that remained very robust it's a Phase IV of what has been a long term multi-phased program for us where we have actually if constructed in-country assembly facility so we know we have got a lot of staying power with that particular country and then within the Middle-East the UAE looked strong Jordon looked strong Oman is strong Saudi has gotten a little bit bigger over the last couple of months to quarter and we feel fairly good about those opportunities.
The balance the other half or little less than half are just as we have mentioned before collision countries it's countries in APAC like Australia Philippines and others and in Latin America Brazil looks pretty good Mexico looks pretty good.
As you know Brazil we were chosen for the early part of the (indiscernible) program we see that accelerating through fiscal ’15.
Long list of other opportunities but in general Joe that is sort of shape of the pipeline.
And then just one more R&amp;D you mentioned I think was 5.3% in terms of IRAD.
What’s your plan for FY ’15? Well when you look back since I came here 2.5 years ago we were about 4% of our revenue being spent in IRAD Internal R&amp;D and now IRAD is 5.3% so it has come up quite a bit in the last 2.5 - 3 years and we tried to point it towards those businesses where we have strong returns and strong growth opportunities based on technology and innovation so we pointed it directly at our tactical business and we have stepped up quite a bit as well in our government communications business.
So it's 5.3% it's a pretty healthy amount of spend.
We believe we’re fully funding the best opportunities.
We’re looking across the company now as a portfolio as opposed to looking at the individual businesses on a (indiscernible) basis.
We have a significant amount of engagement by our Board in R&amp;D since it's such a significant investment and strategic to the company but as I go forward into ’15 we may see a slight tick-up but not to the magnitude we have seen in the last two to three years Joe.
Just quickly on INS.
It looks like with the growing pieces that IT services it looks like it's probably down in the kind of mid-teens range in the guidance for next year is that right? And can you comment at all on what the sort of underlying trends in the business are at NMCI.
Yes let me sort of start and maybe Mick can jump in here a little bit.
Clearly we still are in a relatively constrained government market the procurements are slow there has been a lot of competition on the IT services business and the government side of CapRock.
Some of it's offset with some improvements on commercial CapRock as well as the commercial healthcare business.
As we look out into fiscal ’15 total INS is down 7% - 8%.
We see continued growth on the commercial side of CapRock which we see up high single digits as well as the commercial side of the healthcare business which will be up I guess a small piece up around 20% or so.
And that’s going to be offset by a weak U.S.
government IT services market that will be down high-teens so your mid-teens is in the ball-park with more like high-teens.
In the U.S.
CapRock side of the government side it will also be down a little bit sort of mid to high single digits but that’s coming off a very very weak FY ’14 where our government side of CapRock was down in the mid-20s say 24% - 25%.
I think what’s significant here Carter is that we are seeing two things happening in the IT services businesses one is the roll-off of the NMCI contract Mick mentioned that that’s where the $90 million of revenue and about 40 million of profit roll off between ’14 and ’15 and then the other part is we have decided to not sell in the net sense products IDIQ because it's simply passed through business is coming through a zero gross margin and it is adding nothing to our shareholders.
Those two pieces those two decisions together are a $160 million worth of revenue.
So you pull that out and it would make the hits business to be roughly flat year-over-year outside of those two moving parts and hopefully it gives you a little bit of color within INS and I answered your question but let me if there is anything else you want to know about INS? No that’s exactly it I wanted to get to what the business looked like ex those movements so that color is really helpful.
Just secondly if you could give us a little bit more color on PSPC for next year and the flat guidance there.
I wondered if you might just talk about the environment there bookings trend any challenges on state and local side just anything to help us understand the directionality of that business next year and then beyond and if your views there have changed at all? It hasn’t changed a lot in the last three months since the last quarter the issues we have in PSPC remain two fold one is both the market itself and the market appears to be getting a little bit weaker than where we were just a couple of months ago and there is execution.
I don’t want to pile on the execution issues.
They are going to take a number of quarters to fix.
We have seen some delays in the roll out of some systems due to some customer issues.
I think we’re responding as I mentioned last time we’re adding on the sales and marketing side.
We’re investing in a product offering we’re investing heavily to improve the quality of our software architecture and our product we’re selling into the field all of which I think are positive things it will help us overtime but what I have seen is I really spend a little more time on this business.
There is no silver bullet here.
On the market side it is a bit weaker than where we thought just a few months ago we now see the market to be down maybe flat to down mid-single digits as supposed to being more flattish and what I think is happening here we’re sort of caught between two pieces one is the rebanning that that happened and ended around January ’13 that had a positive effect and maybe pull forward some sales.
And then on the right hand side or the later side is the investments that are coming down the path on LTE and when I think is we’re sort of stuck in the middle we’re winding down from the rebanning and state and local customers are waiting for the uptick on LTE and I think that’s what’s compressing the market that we’re in today.
So I think the state and local finances are a little bit better but we don’t see that reading through right now in opportunities for public safety.
I think when you setup and you look at it longer term we do know that those analog systems that are out there and there is quite a few will shift to digital.
LMR will move to LTE overtime.
I think we’ve taken all the right steps to take out cost to position our product to be successful to upgrade our management team and I know we have got margin expansion opportunity so I think for Harris public safety will be a long term growth story.
It is just going to take a little time for that to figure itself out.
Start with a couple of questions on RF.
I think backlog total between tactical and public safety is down about 15% exciting 2014 relative to 2013 but your guidance for 2015 revenue is pretty close to flat.
So I’m wondering what is it about either the backlog or the pipeline that gives you confidence that the turns business will be better than it typically is in 2015.
Well I think on public safety we’re coming off of a fairly weak 2014 fiscal ’14 and in a market that’s softened down a little bit.
I think we just hold share we will see our business stabilize and we feel reasonably confident that we will see better performance in public safety in fiscal ’15 than ’14.
It may not be up but we’re guided to be about flat right now.
I think on the tactical side look we do know that we’re ending the year with our backlog down a little bit it's about 24% year-over-year it declined sequentially by about 70%.
We anticipated some decline or coming off of a pretty strong Q2 and Q3.
So we thought that was going to end up happening.
Typically what we see in the year is about 60% of our backlog converting to revenue in the subsequent year.
We have some multi-year orders in our backlog today.
Last year we converted about 60% of our backlog and 40% in the year before it was just over that around 61% - 62% so that’s not unusual.
Then we’re also seeing in the 65% to 75% range of new orders converting within the year that’s what we have seen over last couple of years and we expect to see a same trend going into fiscal ’15.
So when you put those two pieces together I think we’re pretty confident about the guidance and the outlook we have for both tactical and public safety.
As we come back and look at just where we’re in the pipeline the DoD pipeline down a little bit sort of the $900 million to $1 billion range so it's holding in there even without any HMS opportunities in there and with the international side remaining relatively healthy at 2.5 billion we do know that some of those opportunities will come to bear in fiscal ’15 and all that taken together is what gives us confidence on the guidance for next year.
And then in your prepared remarks you referenced I think 200 million to 300 million in unspent JTRS funding.
I just want to make sure I understood you correctly is your belief that will be repurposed in order to fill the fielding gap which will potentially be used for your products and if so over what time span do you expect that $200 million to $300 million to be spent? The $200 million to $300 million at the end of GFY ’15 was on the HMS line on the MNVR we think it's sort of $60 million to $65 million in that range so just to distinguish that.
And yes there are the army can buy SRW appliques against that funding and they can buy those appliques to plug some of the fielding gap.
So that is our hope and expectation that some of that will happen over the course of the fiscal year.
So a couple of questions given that JTRS delays that you’ve outlined presumably the overall RF Tactical market opportunity has declined in fiscal ’16 even though I understand your reported pipeline had already excluded a lot of that JTRS opportunity out.
Is that a fair assessment and if in fact the overall market opportunity is going to stretch that a bit.
What do you think that should pertain for pricing even in the international market for tactical product? I think the market itself is going to be flattish in the next couple of years to be honest with you.
I think the international side because we’re a big player on the international front.
I think the international could be up modestly I think we did capture a little bit of share in our fiscal ’14 but it could be up modestly in our fiscal ’15.
The fact that the pipeline that’s over 12 to 18 months sort of hangs in there for U.S.
DoD at the $900 million to a $1 billion range is an indication for the size of the market that happens to be out there in U.S.
DoD.
Just because of the HMS moving out and the funding is not in that pipeline we took that out last time.
So that really doesn’t affect the way we see the marketplace.
There are number of opportunities that we see coming on resets modernization and other parts of the military services more than 60% of our U.S.
DoD pipeline is outside of the U.S.
Army it's the airforce it's SOCOM it's the Marine Corp that are modernizing and standardizing on Harris technology and that still appears reasonably robust.
When you talk about pricing we compete every day on pricing both in the U.S.
DoD and outside of that and in every discussion we have and every contract we sign there is significant pressure on the pricing side.
I think the fact that we bring significant technology to bear you know product that delivers in the field with very very very good quality.
I think it allows the hold on our pricing and our margins in the tactical radio business.
Don’t want to delever [ph] the point but you understand my question is not how you define the market it's how -- it's sort of how all players that the supply products that compete with RF tactical define the market and imagine on a net basis even though your pipeline is flat to up sequentially maybe the rest of the world wouldn’t see it that way and presumably drive some pricing pressure but I guess you just don’t see it that way is that fair? We see pricing pressure in the markets that we happen to be but keep in mind when you’re deep with a particular service in a country those opportunities do tend to come back to you.
We have incumbency in some markets.
So when opportunities arise we tend to be at the front of the line for those kind of opportunities.
We do have difficult pricing conversations with every one of our customers but I don’t see it increasing measurably next year from where we were at this past year on the international side.
And can you remind us of the 260 - 270 of R&amp;D spend that you actually spent how much of that is directed at RF tactical in ’14 and then how are you adjusting that specific spend in RF tactical in fiscal ’15? There is a fair amount of the -- about 260 to 265 you’re very insightful on that number it's in that range on internal R&amp;D is spent at the RF Com business and the largest piece of that is within the tactical business.
I think it's safe to say it's in the $100 million range but I don’t think I want to get much more specific than that it's a substantial amount of money.
As we go into next year there maybe a slight increase in that and may come from other parts of the company as we see good returns and good investment opportunities in tactical radio.
We may see some shift some of the increase that we saw in Q4 comes with adding of people and those people carry into next year so there will be a natural increase next year just because of the annulization of some of the investment we made in Q4 not a 100% of it but some piece of it.
So a very good chunk of our investment is being spent in the tactical business.
I would also say you can see the resilience we have in the GCS business 0 to up 2% next year relatively strong this past year we have stepped up our internal R&amp;D spend at GCS as well and I think that’s paying dividends as well.
Just one last one if you can just comment RF tactical assumptions for your foreign sales mix for fiscal ’15 maybe between systems -- I think you’ve given some flavor on the mix is the mix more beneficial in that side of the business in fiscal ’15 than it was in ’14? Thank you.
Yes we saw at the beginning of last year we talked about this quite a bit because we expected it will provide a little bit of margin pressure that we would see substantial growth in the amount of systems we’re selling into international market.
We expected at that time that the systems business would roughly double year-over-year.
It increased quite a bit it didn’t quite double it was up about 50%.
And we see another increase going into next year of a substantial amount of the orders seemed relative a market magnitude of 40% more or less.
This year this past fiscal ’14 it was around a $180 million to $200 million worth of systems business on the international side and it will go up in the 35% - 40% range next year.
Just want to follow-up on that FGCM Award I know it's IDIQ but can you give us a sense of scale of the opportunity relative to your legacy program just order of magnitude how much big of an opportunity you see this has? It's going to be substantial.
We have done in the range of $30 million to $50 million a year with the NGA and my comments and I will just repeat them here that that business should double over the course of the next year or two.
I think it remains the same Chris so I think that’s sort of shapes and sizes the opportunity at a pretty high level.
And just talking about the HMS program when you look at the upcoming NIEs how well do you feel your positioned in terms of having hardware in the field and the testing environment at any new requirements that have been placed on you? Frankly there has been a whole lot that’s been happening on the -- in that particular area.
We just came off a 14.2 I think our performance on 14.2 was quite good.
We felt very very good about it and I think we’re well positioned in the upcoming NIEs.
I think if you read and I’m sure you’ve Chris a lot of what’s written in the press and memos by very senior people in the military about the performance of Program of Record in other parts.
I think we feel very very well positioned with our HMS offerings both the manpack and the Rifleman.
We talked to you before about the advantages of our own manpack product.
It weighs less it's smaller has all the waveforms doesn’t need all the expensive appliques it boots up quicker all those various things and we feel very very good about that and I think when I look at some of the comments coming out of the military based on 14.2 about weight size battery life heat dissipation.
I feel very good about where our product is going to stack-up based on our long legacy of developing products in this area.
We developed our manpack product with an eye towards keeping the weight low with an eye towards making it heat and thermally efficient.
So we think that that is going to be a performance differentiator for us overtime.
So I feel very good about our product offering both in what we did in 14.2 as well as what’s coming up in fiscal ’15 and I hope that answered your question Chris.
It does and an update on the Rifleman? The Rifleman is very -- we have got a great offering in the Rifleman radio for us it's the U.S.
equivalent to our international soldier radio.
We sold 44 000 of those radios around the world and I like where we stack up there as well.
We have got a product with a longer battery life in excess of 12 hours shorter connect time to network and I think as you might have seen in the demo it has a unique dashboard display at the top providing operational network status.
So battery life remaining numbers of users on the net et cetera it's NSA certified.
So we feel very good about our Rifleman Radio product as well and I think over the last year-and-half you’ve been asking us quite frequently about NSA sort on the manpack and I did mention in my prepared remarks we got that in June.
So both the manpack and the Rifleman are bought NSA certified at this point.
And final question the announcement you had on the hosted payload on Next I think 63 million if I remember your contract with Iridium was for something like 45 million so was there upside to the program in terms of the number or amount of hosted payload activity?  Yes substantially.
It's Aireon is a program.
It's a joint venture between NAV Canada and Iridium and our contract is really with Aireon and it's to put payloads on to this constellation and the total amount of payload I think it's 66 satellites on orbit with -- on orbit spares and on ground spares.
So I think it's total of 81 and there is 81 payloads just for Aireon and on top of that there have been other payloads booked with other customers for that constellation and hopefully that answers your question Chris.
So this is upside on the -- I think it was 15% of the payload that you had reserved for classified customer activity and the upside is on that portion of it.
I would just say that it is upside to what we anticipate it when we signed Aireon in terms of the payloads riding on that constellation.
I think it's all that we can say.
All right.
Thank you everyone for joining us today.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Harris Corporation First Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
(Operator Instructions).
I would now like to introduce your host for today’s conference Pamela Padgett Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our first quarter fiscal 2015 earnings call.
I'm Pamela Padgett.
And on the call today is Bill Brown Chairman and CEO; and Mick Lopez Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
And before we get started a few words on forward-looking statements.
In the course of this teleconference management may make forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements involve assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those statements.
For more information and a discussion of such assumptions risks and uncertainties please see the press release and filings made by Harris with the SEC.
In addition in our press release and on this teleconference and the related presentation we will discuss certain financial measures and information that are non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to the comparable GAAP measures is included in the tables of our press release and on the Investor Relations section of our website which is www.harris.com.
A replay of this call will also be available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Bill with that I'll turn it over to you.
Okay.
Thank you Pam and good morning everybody.
We began our fiscal year posting strong revenue and orders growth in government communications systems and in RF communications’ international tactical radio business.
Operating performance was solid as we continued to benefit from lower costs and good execution.
Turning to Slides 3 and 4 of the presentation.
Earnings-per-share was $1.18 flat with the prior year and favorably impacted by $0.06 from a lower tax rate in the quarter.
Operational earnings came in as expected.
Revenue was down 3% with continued strong growth in government communications systems and in international tactical radios more than offset by continued weakness in the US tactical radio market and declining IT services revenue primarily due to the wind-down of two major programs.
We remain focused on expanding outside the US and in the first quarter international revenue was up 15% to 31% of total revenue trending favorably compared to 30% of total revenue for all of fiscal ’14.
While our focus on operational excellence is reading through the margins and earnings some of the savings is being reinvested in R&amp;D to drive future growth.
Company-funded R&amp;D was up 5% to 5.4% of total revenue with essentially all of the increase in tactical radio.
Orders in the quarter were $1.11 billion and book-to-bill was 0.96.
Orders were down 7% year-over-year primarily due to the decline in IT services.
Sequentially orders were up 3% in the quarter.
Turning to a few segment highlights and I'll begin with government communications systems which had an excellent start to the year with revenue orders and operating income all up significantly over the prior year.
This is the fourth consecutive quarter of positive year-over-year growth for GCS.
Customer diversification and leveraging our strong franchises in space avionics air traffic management geospatial imagery and weather are creating new opportunities and producing excellent results in a tough government spending environment.
For several quarters we've highlighted the F-35 program as a revenue driver a trend we expect to continue for number of years as the program continues to ramp and as we look for opportunities to increase scope.
So let me give you a little color on the role that we play.
Harris leveraged its track record of success on the F/A-18 and F-22 platforms into a larger role on the F-35 program providing mission electronics fiber-optic networks and power supplies.
We also supply the antenna and interface unit for the Multifunction Advanced Data Link or MADL providing stealth communications between F-35 aircraft.
Following fourth-quarter contract wins of $78 million for the F-35 in the first quarter we received another $22 million pushing contract awards to date to over $800 million.
Under the current scope total contract value could reach $4.5 billion over the life of the program and we've identified another $1.5 billion of opportunity for additional scope including next-generation processors and expanded communications capabilities.
I will also mention that in GCS our classified business continues to grow and in Q1 we booked orders against a previously announced large win in geospatial imagery the $770 million foundational geospatial content management contract or FGCM with the NGA.
At the time of the announcement there was a protest outstanding which we’re happy to report was denied.
Now turning to RF communications.
International tactical radio revenue and orders were significantly higher than in the prior year.
As we indicated last quarter opportunities in Iraq were firming up and we booked two orders totaling $99 million adding to the $50 million booked in the fourth quarter.
These three orders were from multiple end-users and are part of a broad set of requirements across the MoD and MoI including various defense services in a number of national security organizations.
And we continue to see large opportunities in Iraq in our 12 to 18 month pipeline and beyond building upon our decade-long track record in that market.
International opportunities such as Iraq tend to be multiyear multiphase modernizations where customers typically standardize on an established technology like the Falcon III family radios like we’re seeing in a country in Asia where we booked an $18 million order in the quarter bringing orders to date to $200 million.
And in the Philippines where we booked an $18 million order in Q1 following a $14 million order booked in Q4.
In Canada Harris was awarded a four-year $180 million Canadian single award IDIQ contract for Falcon III radios in support of several modernization efforts within the Canadian forces including special operations.
Canada has been a large user of Falcon II radios and a long-standing partner for 20 years.
I'm pleased that the international 12 to 18 month pipeline remains strong at $2.5 billion replenishing quickly following another excellent quarter of orders and revenue growth pointing to continued progress on multiyear opportunities.
In times of global conflict our tactical radio business has historically benefited and we’re beginning to see that in the quality of opportunities both within and beyond our pipeline.
Security concerns in the Middle East have no doubt heightened and the situation in Ukraine remains a significant concern especially for Europe where we've seen opportunities increased a bit in size for Poland and for the Baltic and Scandinavian countries as well as for Ukraine.
Coalition actions could also add to our opportunity list because of the need for interoperability.
Since our radios have a broad installed base around the world we’re well-positioned to meet that requirement.
In the Middle East opportunities are not just within one or two countries but are broad with major opportunities in at least five countries and smaller but significant ones in a handful of others.
And our Middle East customers in the face of heightened security issues are really looking at requirements to ensure their forces are adequately equipped with the right command control and communications equipment.
And typically in these countries we’re considered a preferred supplier.
In the US tactical radio market budget constraints and procurement delays continue to result in weak revenue and orders.
The issue is not demand as customer requirements are real and they are significant.
Our DoD pipeline remains roughly at about $1 billion and includes both modernization plans across the services as well as typical resets upgrades replacement spares and support.
What’s holding back the market is the uncertainty caused by the overhang of no government fiscal year ‘15 budget and the worry of sequestration on the horizon in ’16.
We believe spending should improve once a ‘15 budget is passed.
We’re confident that US tactical radio modernizations will move forward and all the services are committed to it including the Army whose modernization alone is a multibillion dollar opportunity.
The Marines have standardized on Falcon technology and are steadily upgrading and SOCOM released in October an RFP for the multichannel handheld portion of a $500 million modernization effort called SOCOM Tactical Communications or STC program.
STC encompasses a family of radios the multichannel handheld the multichannel Manpack and an HF wideband radio and is expected to have multiple suppliers and we fully expect to be one of them.
As our results today and over the last several quarters indicate we’re investing to win and we’re demonstrating a readiness to deliver now.
Following NSA certification our new multichannel Manpack received it's official nomenclature the AN/PRC-158 a sign of customer endorsement and intent to procure.
We've now booked orders with three different DoD customers outside of the Army and we expect shipments to begin this quarter.
Relative to the Army program of record our PRC-158 Manpack offers size weight and power advantages and doesn't require add-on application to operate over the Mule satellite system.
The team also uniquely designed an expansion slot into the radio so the customer can tailor capability to the specific mission requirement.
A customer might choose to integrate an ISR feature such as access to direct UAV video downlinks or add third-party modules for specialized ISR applications or to add commercial SATCOM access.
My point is that radios are not designed just to meet the spec.
Instead we develop radios to meet the needs of the soldier with capabilities that oftentimes go beyond the spec.
And we’re doing the same thing with our wideband rifleman team radio.
To provide ourselves with an independent and real user view the radio was tested by the Network Battle Lab for experimentation at the Cyber Center of Excellence and soldiers from the 15th Regimental Signal Brigade.
The results validated the radio superior transmission range shorter time to form a network from a cold start and ease-of-use due to our unique dashboard display which simplifies mission planning and monitoring of network connectivity.
Both radios will compete in the Army's upcoming Manpack and rifleman radio procurements.
And we continue to make great progress on the previously one mid-tier vehicular radio program called MNVR.
Government integration testing for the MNVR radio started in mid-October and is a key milestone for the radio.
Preliminary results leading up to the testing were very positive demonstrating the ability to quickly form WNW and SRW networks.
For both networks the radios met data throughput requirements even while exceeding range requirements.
And in the spring the limited user test will be at the focal point of NIE 15.2 which we hope results in a Milestone C decision to initiate for a production and begin deliveries in fiscal ’16.
And as I mentioned in the last call we’re developing a Mules upgrade solution to port into already fielded 117G radios some 30 000 of them adding significant value to our customers’ existing inventory.
This upgrade market is anticipated to be significant with opportunities beginning in late fiscal ’15.
And before leaving RF communications I will touch on public safety.
The public safety market remains weak and is estimated to be down low double digits for the year to date calendar 2014.
While local government budgets have improved and more than half of the market is still analog and eventually will be upgraded to the P25 digital standard customers have been slow to move forward.
We believe the wind-down from re-banding and narrow banding and some hesitancy in the front of the [ph] rollout of LTE is weighing on the market.
As we also see the market becoming increasingly more competitive we’re continuing to work on what we control: our cost structure our product lineup and the effectiveness of our sales and marketing activities to improve our competitive position.
And then finally in integrated network solutions revenue was weak as expected for the segment but commercial CapRock and healthcare results were once again encouraging with both businesses posting revenue growth in the high single digits.
So with that I will turn it over to Mick to comment on segment results and guidance.
Mick? Thank you Bill and good morning to everyone.
Moving to segment results on Slide 5.
RF communications revenue was $387 million compared to $423 million in the prior year.
Segment orders were $374 million up 7% compared to last year.
Book-to-bill was 0.97.
Tactical communications revenue was $276 million and declined 9%.
While orders were $288 million up 28% compared to the prior year.
We experienced strong revenue and orders growth in international but the US market remained weak.
Book-to-bill for tactical was 1.04 and sequentially funded backlog was up modestly from 4Q’s $564 million to $575 million this quarter.
The public safety weakness in the state and local market continued.
Revenue was $111 million down 6% compared to the prior year.
Orders were $86 million compared to $123 million in the prior year.
Operating income for the RF communication segment was $117 million and operating margin was 30.1%.
Let’s turn to government communications system segment on Slide 6.
First quarter revenue was $461 million increasing 12% compared to $412 million in the prior year.
Higher revenue from classified customers commercially hosted payload programs the F 35 program and the FAA's NexGen data comm program was partially offset by lower revenue from NASA's Space Network Ground Segment Sustainment program.
Segment operating income was $74 million and operating margin was 16% reflecting manufacturing efficiencies in the space area and strong program performance across the segment.
During the quarter Harris was awarded a five-year $495 million ceiling multi-vendor IDIQ contract from the U.S.
Air Force for the hosted payload solutions program and awards totaling $83 million from classified customers.
Turning to integrated network solution segment on Slide 7.
First quarter revenue was $326 million down 13% compared to the prior year.
Revenue growth in commercial CapRock and healthcare was more than offset by revenue decline in the government market.
Declining revenue in IT services was primarily due to the rolloff of NMCI contract and the decision to no longer sell pass-through products on another contract and to a lesser extent from continued market weakness.
Segment operating income was $23 million compared to $30 million last year.
Operating margin was 7.1% compared to 7.9% in the prior year.
These operating performance improvements at CapRock and healthcare were more than offset by the rolloff of the highly profitable NMCI contract.
In healthcare the news was encouraging.
The team released the latest version of the Fusion FX software solution incorporating new features and interface enhancements such as graphical chart displays multi-browser support and automation improvements.
We had several new wins in healthcare including a contract from Phoebe Putney Health System for our provider portal solution linking physicians and other clinicians throughout one of Georgia's largest health systems.
We won two international contract awards; one from Telus Health in Canada and one from National Health Service-East Kent in the United Kingdom.
Our software is now deployed at 50 hospitals and the number of users over the last quarter has grown from 50 000 to 75 000.
Let's turn to Slide 8.
Our company generated free cash flow of $46 million compared to $166 million in the prior year.
CapEx was $41 million compared to $33 million last year.
We continue to expect free cash flow for the fiscal year up about a 100% of net income with CapEx up about $200 million.
We remain confident in our ability to generate strong free cash flow and in the first quarter increased our dividend by 12% and used $100 million in cash to repurchase 1.4 million shares.
Our effective tax rate was 28.7% as a result of a foreign tax credit settlement but we still expect a 32.5% tax rate for the full fiscal year.
Moving to Slide number 9.
Fiscal 2015 guidance remains unchanged at a range of $4.75 to $5 per diluted share and a revenue decline of 1% to 3% compared to the prior year.
Also no changes were made to segment information which is detailed on this slide.
With that I’d like to ask the operator to please open the lines for any question.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Gautam Khanna with Cowen and Company.
So hey I just wanted to ask a couple of questions.
One could you comment maybe on how the tactical RF orders have trended since the September quarter ended? And then if you could just give us some flavour of when – what you expected the bookings – what the cadence of RF tactical bookings will be through the year because it looks like you do still have some go-get kind of business to hit the numbers this year? Yeah I don’t think Gautam we can comment on anything that's happened since the close of the quarter at this point.
We will release publicly whatever we believe should be issued in a press release as they get awarded to us we will continue to do that through the second quarter.
I would say we felt pretty good about the start to the year in international and we were very pleased with the revenue and order growth coming off a very very strong fiscal ’14.
And as I mentioned in my prepared remarks Gautam I'm encouraged by the pipeline replenishing itself to you’re seeing 2.5 billion and it’s pretty constant over the last number of quarters it almost looks like a manufactured number.
In fact there is real opportunities they’re moving through the pipeline and the fact that we’ve been booking so healthily including in Q1 I am pretty encouraged by that.
And I would say also in terms of the quality of the opportunities as they’re moving through the pipeline feels pretty good.
On the domestic side we knew the first half was going to be a bit challenging.
We talked about that in the last quarter.
We knew we’d have a slow start.
We did see some opportunities that we had hoped to book in Q1 slipped a little bit to the right.
The fact is we’re operating under a CR.
We expect that will get resolved towards the end of the calendar year and a budget happening sometime early in next calendar year as something that happened this past year.
So I think once that happens I think money will start to flow once there is more certainty on funding lines.
So we do expect the back half in the DoD tactical business to be a bit better than the front half.
But I think it's what I can comment on in terms of the order trajectory as we see it today Gautam.
And you are still looking for it to be down tactical RF low single digits is that right – so there is no change – Yes there is no change to that.
We still see the year down low single digits.
We still see the DoD part down the low double digits in the 10% to 12% range and again we start out Q1 a weaker than that so it does imply a little bit better performance in the back half.
We do see international up low single-digits and again we start out a little stronger than that.
So perhaps a strength there might offset a little bit of softness in DoD but overall tactical for the year we still see it being down low single digits.
And can you update us on your buyback plans for the year? I think you said 200 million but you did just over half of that in Q1.
What do you expect to do in terms of share buyback? Nothing has changed at this point.
We’re still guiding towards $200 million for the year.
We tend not to communicate too much on a quarterly pattern here.
Last year we did start off the year as well with a pretty healthy buyback in the first quarter.
We ended up doing more in the year.
This year we did $100 million in Q1 and still guide to $200 million for the year.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Bill just on the cash flow you were a little lighter in the quarter than you haven’t had below 100 million for a while in operating cash flow in a quarter.
Just wondering it looks like some of it was inventories.
Wonder if you could comment on maybe where things were a little weaker in the quarter and were you looking for a pick up later in the year? Well I think I would say that Mick and I weren’t too particularly happy with our start on free cash flow.
As you point out we typically have done better in the first half of the year.
Our first half is always a little weak and Q1 is always a weaker part of the first half.
But we were down quite a bit versus last year.
We’re not pleased with the results.
It wasn’t in any particular segment it was really across the segments and it wasn’t so much capital.
Capital was up a little bit in the quarter as we knew it would be.
It was really coming off of working capital.
We know we booked a couple of orders a little later in the quarter than we thought so that didn’t get collected and we built a little bit of inventory and we are going live this quarter on a ERP system in RF in Rochester and we want to make sure we’re protected for that.
So there is a bit of inventory there but we’re going to hit a 100% in net income for the year we’re guiding to it.
I am confident on our ability to get there.
We know what we need to do and it will correct itself through the year.
Is it fair to say that in tactical that – or even in RF more broadly that Q2 should look sort of like Q1 and you expect a material pickup going into Q3 and Q4 or maybe a little help with that – [indiscernible] would be because you are under 400 in the quarter backlog is pretty consistent with where it was and – it looks like Q1 you’re 800 looking for 1.8 for the year.
So any comments there? Well we’re not going to guide to Q2.
I mean we’re going to stick to the guidance for the year.
What I did say earlier in fact is consistent with what we said on the last call was that the second half was going to be bit better than the first half.
And I think a lot of this is going to do with -- have to do with some budget certainty which we see happening.
We did see the tactical backlog come up sequentially a little bit a couple percent and that’s encouraging for us.
We do see typically 60% to 70% of our backlog turned in the year.
We do see up to 75% of new orders that we book in the year to convert to revenue within the year.
That's spot on to what we did in fiscal ‘14 and we see fiscal ‘15 playing out pretty much the same way.
And then just one more any thoughts – I haven’t turned this one on in a little while but any thoughts on capital deployment outside of returning cash to shareholders i.e.
M&amp;A any pipeline just any update in the strategy there? Well we wouldn’t talk about anything in particular on M&amp;A but I would say that there's nothing in the marketplace where Harris right now is changing our strategy.
We remain committed as the board does to returning capital to owners in an efficient way.
We continue to fund internal priority and that's our number one requirement.
We've paid a nice dividend you probably saw we raised it again 12% in the month of August.
We’ve got a very strong track record of double-digit increases going back a decade 23% CAGR was pretty pretty healthy.
And it has been up by about 19% 20% the last three years.
We’ve been I think pretty good in returning cash in terms of buyback as well and as my comment to Gautam indicated we still have 200 for the year 100 million in Q1.
We come out of the gates a little soft on free cash flow but I'm sure we will hit on a percent of net income in the full-year.
So nothing has really changed at this point that's notable to report to our owners.
Our next question comes from Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Just a couple of quick ones.
First off on your comments around PSPC I know last quarter Bill you had said you expected things to tick up a little bit more in the back half of the year but it sounds like incrementally the commentary there -- that market is a bit tougher than you thought coming into the year.
And am I hearing that correctly -- hopes of the pickup in the back year of your fiscal year? Yes it is incrementally a little bit softer than we had hoped.
We thought the market would accelerate towards the back end of calendar ‘14 and at least through our calendar ’13 so our first quarter we didn't see that happening.
As I mentioned last time there is a combination of both the market being soft and continued to be soft I think we’re in a bit of the trough between the narrow banding rebanding rolloff and LTE somewhere off in the horizon and the market is getting a bit more competitive.
And we’ve got some internal execution issues that we’re working through.
We've put in place a new management team.
We’re working hard on our sales force.
We’re making a lot of improvements to our product offering.
We are working on some of the nagging quality issues we have seen over the last couple of years in our business that the team is really focused on.
And we get almost daily reports on how we are improving on the quality side.
So it’s really the combination of those two things.
And in order to hit – so we start off the year fiscal year a little bit softer than we had hoped.
We’re still guiding to flat for the full-year but that does put a bit of scratch in the back half.
And then with respect to INS I wondered if you’d just give us a little bit of color.
The language in the release makes it sound like the year-over-year decline was basically the IT services pieces you talked about which would sort of suggest that the domestic declines or government declines in CapRock were offsetting the growth in commercial.
Is that the right characterization and can you help us understand some of the color around the declines and the growth there and just some more color on what you are seeing in that marketplace? I think it's accurate Carter.
I think the challenge we had in INS in Q1 was almost as we had expected and guided to.
So the segment as a whole came in as we had thought it would.
IT services and the rest of the government part of INS was soft.
We did see the rolloff of two significant contracts in the IT services business.
One was NMCI that Mick had mentioned the other is the NETCENTS products business which we decided to not sell under anymore because we didn't think it added any value to our owners.
That's about two-thirds of the impact in IT services and the other third was about – it was really around the market softness in IT services.
We did continue to see some erosion on the government side of CapRock you know that business was down about 24% 25% last year.
It was pretty soft as well in Q1 and that was not quite offset by as we mentioned some growth in the commercial side of CapRock which was very good both in maritime and energy as well as in the commercial side of healthcare.
So it didn’t offset the decline from the government side but it did mute them a little bit.
And just lastly with respect to the – I understand this can be a Q1 sort of thing but you're obviously running very good margins in government comm in the quarter with INS perhaps a little bit below kind of full year expectations.
Are those suggestive of any trends does it imply anything about the guidance moving or is it just Q1 and it’s too early to call? It's too early to call but yes we did see GCS a little bit better than what we were guiding to for the year.
We knew that was going to end up happening and we knew the margins were going to be strong.
We knew we had a couple of space programs that are more product related that are going to wind down after Q1.
So we don’t really see that repeating in Q2 but we’re very very pleased with where GCS has been in a market that's really very very challenging to come out with 12% growth top line and pretty strong orders is very impressive accomplishment of the team.
And like I said on the INS side yeah it’s a little bit soft not as we expected the softness in the first quarter but today we don't see any change in the guidance for the full-year for GCS or INS.
Our next question comes from Peter Skibitski with Drexel Hamilton.
Bill I was wondering – do you have a sense that maybe your Army radio revenue is kind of at a trough this year.
I know it should be down but now for a number of years it seems like the comp is just getting easier for you in terms of QD [ph] volumes particularly in the Army because you’ve got a number of competition it seemed like you’re pretty well placed.
On the other hand the Army budgets are really tough.
So I am just wondering how you think about things from that perspective? Well look we certainly see the business to be – continue to be challenging in our fiscal ’15 it’s where we’re guiding to be down another 10% to 12% from being down north of 20% last year.
And so we know there’s going to be more pressure in the budgets in fiscal ’15.
However they are constituted in and get approved in December January timeframe.
But look we see the budgets bottoming.
We may not be at the bottom or certainly near it we do know that with a modestly better budget environment we do see budgets starting to recover and support for modernization happening in fiscal ’16.
So we do see that getting better over the next year or two.
It's hard to say that this is exactly the inflection point but I think we’re bumping along the bottom.
I think the demand is there it’s driven by a number of factors.
Certainly Army modernization is important.
I am glad to see it’s still a priority the opportunity over the next decade is multimillions of dollars could be $5 billion.
We do know that some of the delays in HMS do create some fill the gaps that we hope we can find a way to plug.
I'm very pleased that SOCOM has come out with their STC program the modernization program that was come out as an RFP in October and the rest to follow that's a half a billion dollar program we’re well-positioned there.
We do know that there are some reset opportunities that are OEM funded because there is a lot of inventory of radios and they need to be upgraded and reset.
There is some urgent needs requirements.
There's a lot of conflict in the world that perhaps there are some urgent needs that are happening.
I am finding a lot more attention paid to Mules [ph] and frankly a little more concern around SATCOM access and SATCOM reliability which is partly why we’re seeing a little more interest in a wideband radio wideband HF radio.
So to me there's a number of things that could cause the business to get better over time.
I do see that when the markets do come back when the funding is there the investments that we've made and they are significant ones are going to position us to be successful.
So long way of saying Pete I think we’re sort of bouncing along the bottom and recoveries can depend upon what happens in the overall budget environment.
I will just have one more follow-up.
Hosted payloads you are on a couple of contracts now it’s kind of a new area.
Just wondering how you think about this area maybe how big you think it could be because like I said you have a couple of new contracts but there is a lot of competition also at least on one of them.
So I am just wondering if you see this as kind of a long term trend and if it’s kind of a meaningful opportunity for you it’s kind of – maybe a more modest one? Well I think we’re very very well positioned and it started a couple of years ago when we won the Arianne hosted payload for the [Arianne radium] set of satellites that they’re going to launch I think some time next year.
And that put us in the leadership position and we were able to augment that win with a number of other payloads on that platform.
And I would say today we are the market leader on hosted payloads and I think we’re well-positioned.
We've got a facility set up in Palm Bay under GCS.
We’ve got a lot of years of experience in doing this sort of work and the us winning a piece like many others on this hosted payloads solutions contract is very encouraging to us.
We’re looking at six or seven different opportunities that are live under that particular contract.
And I think we’re going to – I think we’re going to be very well positioned over time.
I do think that this is a longer-term trend this has to do a lot with what people call this disaggregation of space where very large multibillion dollar single-purpose satellites will likely over time get disaggregated into smaller pieces that could be more responsive launched faster be more nimble than waiting for a decade to have a very large exquisite multibillion dollar satellite launch.
I think the needs of our military and IC community and the technology progress is such that it’s to me that's the direction that this whole market is going to go.
It doesn't mean that there won't be a demand for exquisite technology I just think that there is a lot of opportunity for finding hosted solutions on ready to be launched commercial platforms.
Our next question comes from Chris Quilty of Raymond James.
Bill can you give us -- is there any update on the timing of RFPs for the rifleman Manpack are still on track? Well the latest we’ve heard is the rifleman RFP should be out in the next couple of months by the end of the year and probably the Manpack perhaps early in calendar ’15 like in the January timeframe.
I am sort of – that’s good [ph] to call in the ball on this one Chris to be honest with you.
That’s the latest we are hearing from the PEO and so I am repeating that to you but it does feel like it is getting lots -- it's right around the corner.
There has been a lot of discussion RFI discussion on both the rifleman and the Manpack going back and forth.
And it certainly does feel like we’re getting a lot closer to the RFPs being issued.
So that's the perspective as we speak today Chris.
And I haven't read through all the commentary on the RFIs.
But was there anything in the original specs or the RFI discussions that’s troubling in terms of product designer requirements? No I wouldn’t say there's anything that we’re finding particularly troubling.
I think the RFIs on the Manpack really go back to what happened in NIE 14.2 where the program of record perhaps did meet the expectations of the Army this followed with this memo from General McMaster who at the time was the commanding general of the Army Maneuver Center of Excellence like in the June timeframe he was pretty critical of the program.
And I think what the Army has done has gone back and reassessed their needs their requirements and the RFIs that we've responded to are more along the lines of addressing some of the concerns on size weight power range heat that General McMaster pointed out and it's asking questions relative to what sort of improvements would you be able to make over what period of time in the Manpack.
I think it's you being used to inform the Army as to what might be a special requirement and what might be an objective requirement.
I find it all to be honest with you very very encouraging for Harris because what they're looking at is how will these product be improved over the near-term to do those things that General McMaster wants to see happen -- take weight out of it make it more nimble improve the range reduce the power draw improve battery life.
Those are some of the things that we do every single day going back over a decade and we continue to make improvements on our radio.
We think today even our Manpack is very very well positioned.
I made a few comments on that in my prepared remarks.
I think our radio is well-positioned.
We've got great ideas to do some additional things bring additional value like this additional slot that the team just put into the Manpack radio of that lot capability should the warfighter need that additional capability for ISR or SATCOM access that’s pretty interesting and unique and it’s gotten the services kind of interested and excited about that.
So that's the progress that’s happening right now.
So I do believe when the RFPs when they come out over the next couple of months I think we’re going to be very well-positioned.
I am extraordinarily encouraged that we have three orders outside of the Army are ready and we are delivering in this quarter and I think that really to me is a testament to the fact that we’re ready to compete for the Army program.
Speaking of orders outside – if I did the numbers correct it looks like your international opportunity pipeline went from about 2.4 to 1.5 billion are those numbers correct? And can you just speak to that? Now the international pipeline has remained about $2.5 billion for the last several quarters it’s very very good very strong.
And as I mentioned in some of my remarks I think the quality of pipeline is good if not coming up a little bit.
It hasn't changed in its size over the last couple of quarters despite really really good bookings here Chris.
And with the FTCM contract can you just speak to -- I mean with series of contract awards now how much incremental all of that order activity has been relative to your past work that you’ve done in recent years? Yeah no change to what I mentioned on the last call.
We have a long history with the NGA as a key geospatial imagery supplier and that broad set of suppliers is narrowing itself down to today – to really being two and we won two of three regions around the world.
As I mentioned one of the regions was protested it was denied.
So we have 2 of 3 regions around the world for the NGA.
Task orders are starting to be issued against those contracts and as I mentioned last we expect the value of that business for us for Harris Corporation to roughly double in size from where we were.
And we were in that $30 million to $50 million range maybe $50 million we think that that's going to double over time.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Josh Sullivan with Sterne Agee.
So just with the rebates managing price in the last month or so are your CapRock energy customers making any change to their long term CapEx investments? We haven’t seen that I think it's too soon to say and I think it’s pretty consistent with the commentary that I am reading across all the other players in the energy segment.
At $80 a barrel whatever it is today 80 81 something like that it hasn't hit that level which causes people to rethink capital investments.
Should it fall another $10 $15 I mean maybe something is going to change.
I think it’s going to end up happening and then impacting some of the big oil and gas players a lot sooner than it will impact us.
So we have not seen that.
Remember our model here in CapRock these rigs are existing they are very long – the new ones are long-term build you got to get positioned on them very very early on.
We tend to own the equipment we lease it back to the operator of the rig.
So should oil prices remain deeply depressed for a multiyear basis would there be an impact on the business? It's possible but it won’t read through to us for some time.
And then can you just talk about the Smart Sky opportunity and if there is any overlap on the LTE capability to public safety? Yeah it’s a little bit too soon to talk about Smart Sky for us we do think it's an interesting opportunity for us for developing some good technology based on GCS for air to ground communications.
And it builds on the things that we do at public safety but also in LTE capability we have around the company and it is really being led by GCS.
A lot of it has to do with our ability to develop and deliver long-range radios.
We do it for the military and this is a slightly different adaptation of that.
So nothing to really update today.
It's still a work-in-process.
Thank you.
I am showing no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the call back to Pamela Padgett for closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you everyone for joining us today.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today’s conference.
This does conclude today’s program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Harris Corporation's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce your host for today’s conference call is Pamela Padgett Vice President of Investor Relations.
You may begin ma'am.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our call today to discuss Harris’ second quarter fiscal 2015 earnings as well as our intended acquisition of Exelis that we announced earlier this morning.
I'm Pamela Padgett and on the call today is Bill Brown Chairman and CEO; Mick Lopez Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Dave Melcher CEO and President of Exelis.
Before we get started a few words on forward-looking statements.
In the course of this teleconference management may make forward-looking statements.
Including regarding the acquisition we announced today.
Forward-looking statements involve assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those statements.
For more information and a discussion of such assumptions risks and uncertainties please see the press release and filings made by Harris with the SEC.
In addition in our press releases and on this teleconference and the related presentations we will discuss certain financial measures and information that are non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to the comparable GAAP measures in respect of our second fiscal 2015 financial results is included on the Investor Relations section of our Web site which is www.harris.com.
A replay of the call will also be available on the Investor Relations section of our Web site.
And with that Bill I will turn it over to you.
Okay very good.
Thank you Pam and good morning everyone.
I want to start by expressing our deepest condolences on behalf of Harris to the family and friends of Joe Nadol an analyst who has followed Harris for almost a decade and who tragically passed away earlier this week.
So today we are announcing a transformational acquisition of Harris that will create significant and lasting value for our shareholders our customers and our employees.
With the acquisition of Exelis we are increasing our scale broadening our technology base and expanding our customer set in markets where we had decades of successful performance.
So before jumping into the transaction Mick and I will briefly cover second quarter results and updated Harris guidance and then Dave shall walk you through the acquisition before opening the call for questions.
So turning to our second quarter earnings presentation Slides 3 and 4 Harris performed well in the second quarter with earnings per share of $1.32.
Operating results were solid reflecting good execution and lower cost.
Earnings per share also benefited from lower than expected taxes including the 2014 R&amp;D tax credit.
Revenue for the Company was down 1% with growth in Government Communications Systems International Tactical Radios and Commercial CapRock more than offset by continued weakness in U.S.
Tactical Radios and by the previously reported wind down of two major IT services programs.
International revenue was up 5% in the quarter and was 31% of total revenue and the strategy of expanding already strong franchises within the government market is providing revenue strength for the Company.
So touching briefly on the segments Government Communications Systems posted its fifth consecutive quarter of year-over-year revenue growth and generated excellent operating income demonstrating yet again the strength of its core franchise in Space and Intelligence Avionics Air Traffic Management Geospatial Imagery and Weather.
In the area of Avionics the F-35 program was a major revenue driver in the quarter and we also received a $60 million follow-on contract for the LRIP-9.
In Air Traffic Management where we've had a longstanding relationship with the FAA and recently expanded it with more than $900 million in awards over the last three years we were awarded a 10 year $98 million follow-on contract for OASIS II that supports flight services in Alaska by integrating real time weather and flight planning information.
Our strong franchise in Space and Intelligence have also been rich with expansion opportunities.
Classified programs were a revenue driver in the second quarter and following the close of the quarter we had two strategic classified wins a three year $23 million contract from a new customer for space situation awareness and support of air force missions and a five year $300 million single award IDIQ contract to integrate the governments various intelligence systems.
In our Space business we introduced two new space reflector products a first-to-market five meter unfurlable Ka-band antenna serving a growing market for high throughput satellites and a new lightweight fixed-mesh reflector where we also won our first order.
In RF Communications the International Tactical Radio business continued to show strength with higher revenue good orders and solid opportunities firming up in our $2.5 billion opportunity pipeline.
We signed a $101 million follow-on contract with a country in Africa and expect to begin booking orders against it late in the fiscal year and we have visibility into several FMS orders in the pipeline that are moving fairly quickly towards award.
Australia's tactical modernization continues and in the second quarter we booked a $38 million order for Wideband Handheld the Manpack radios for the Special Forces bringing orders to-date to $560 million with an additional opportunity of about $90 million on the horizon.
This latest award positions Harris very well as the future provider on Y-band radios for a fully networked architecture of the Australian defense force.
In Iraq in the second quarter we shipped a significant portion of the $99 million in orders booked in Q1 and additional requirements and opportunities were added to the pipeline.
There was $1.6 billion authorized in GFY15 for the Iraq train and equipped fund and another $1.3 billion into President's budget request for 2016 that will support significant opportunities for Harris making Iraq one of the larger components in our near-term tactical pipeline.
Also in the quarter we received a $50 million order from a nation in the Middle East for an integrated country-wide tactical communications system based on its Falcon III Y-band radios.
This nation represents a new Special Forces customer for us in the Middle East and the award further strengthens our preferred supplier position in the region.
As expected the U.S.
tactical radio market remains constrained but I am encouraged by the recent pickup in procurement activity.
The RFP for rifleman radio was finally released and these are due next week and the final IDIQ contract is now much bigger than we had previously anticipated.
$3.9 billion over 10 years with $1.4 billion for the rifleman itself and 2.5 billion for objective requirements like a two channel handheld radio way forms and vehicle adapters.
We submitted a bid for the $390 million next-gen handheld portion of the SOCOM Tactical Communications modernization effort which will be followed over the coming months with RFPs for Y-band HF and multichannel Manpack radios.
We now believe that the total SOCOM modernization opportunity could reach $900 million.
Also in the quarter we submitted a bid for an Air Force IDIQ contract to integrate infield battle management capabilities.
Before leaving tactical I’ll make a few comments on the President’s budget request.
In the tactical lines that support our business we saw some pickup in GFY16 across the marines navy air force and SOCOM so at least beginning move in the right direction.
For army modernization MNVR funding is higher over the five year period than in the previous year’s budget reflecting the program’s good progress towards production.
For HMS funding was $65 million for GFY16 which for us was a positive surprise given they are still sitting on about $300 million in unspent funds and since the procurement has been pushed out to GFY17.
In the out years for HMS the budget matches the procurement schedule with funding picking up in GFY17 to $291 million and rising to $470 million annually in ’18 and out.
In public safety revenue was weak in the second quarter and competitive pressures remain intense.
Our execution is slowly progressing and will more evident as the market improves.
Process improvements in all the key areas are resulting in better program execution lower cost a more effective salesforce and positive customer feedback on new product releases.
We have made measurable progress but we still have a lot more to do.
In Integrated Network Solutions revenue was about as expected with high single-digit growth in CapRock more than offset by the wind down of two IT services programs.
Commercial CapRock revenue was up 15% driven by our previous Carnival cruise-line win and we had a particularly quarter in energy despite the market turmoil with revenue up 8% and orders up 23%.
In healthcare solutions we continue to receive positive feedback from customers on our Fusion FX software solution and we are making progress in our efforts to find a partner for the business with better domain expertise and channels to market.
We also recently decided to eliminate the INS headquarters’ function to reduce indirect expenses at the segment level with Sheldon Fox President of Government Communications Systems named as the acting President of INS.
This move also better aligns our CapRock business with GCS where we know we have significant technology sharing opportunities that can help us bring more differentiated solution to CapRock customers.
Now I will turn it over to Mick to comment on guidance Mick? Thank you much Bill and good morning to everyone.
We have included our typical segment detail and financial highlights in Slides 5 to 8.
But instead of reading them in the interest of time I will go directly to Slide 9 for our updated fiscal 2015 outlook.
We are increasing our fiscal ’15 earnings per share guidance to a range of $4.95 to $5.05 per share from previous range of $4.75 to $5 per share.
Revenue guidance remains unchanged and is expected to decline 1% to 3%.
Our guidance doesn’t consider the acquisition being announced today.
In RF communications we have narrowed the guidance range and expect revenue to be flat to down 2%.
Within the segment we expect public safety to be weaker offset by higher international tactical.
U.S.
tactical expectations are unchanged.
A bit stronger back half revenue compared to the first half due to the passing of a GFY15 budget and timing of funds flowing down to customers.
In Government Communications Systems we now expect revenue to be up 2% to 4% and operating margin in the range of 15% to 15.5% and that’s a little bit better than before.
We expect modest sequential revenue growth in the back half.
In Integrated Network Solutions first half revenue was generally in line with expectations.
Strength in Commercial CapRock more than offset by program wind downs and IT services while IT services are showing signs of bottoming we are no longer expecting any pickup in second half revenue and we are assuming that revenue pressure in the CapRock energy market materializes due to the impact of lower oil prices.
As a result we now expect fiscal ’15 revenue to be down about 10% and operating margin up about 7%.
We are still expecting free cash flow of about 100% of net income and a full year tax rate between 30.5% to 31% which translates into an average tax rate of about 33.8% in the back half about half of the decrease in tax rate guidance is due to calendar 2014 R&amp;D tax credit and the remainder from other favorable tax items.
With that I'll now turn it over back to Bill to comment on the acquisition.
Okay well thank you Mick.
And as Pam mentioned earlier I am joined here in the room by Dave Melcher President and CEO of Exelis who will offer a couple of comments as well.
So let me turn now to the separate acquisition deck and I'll begin on Slide 3.
This acquisition brings together two engineering driven companies with similar cultures that value technology and innovation to solve some of our customers' toughest mission-critical challenges.
The combined pro forma company has LTM revenue of $8.2 billion and EBITDA of about $1.6 billion.
This powerful combination creates an industry innovator with much greater scale providing a broad spectrum of technology-based advanced communications solutions.
Let me start by providing a high level overview of Exelis and reviewing the transaction details before diving a bit more into the strategic rationale.
So now turning to Slide 4 Exelis has a number of leading positions across diverse markets.
Electronic systems which is about 29% of company revenue is a leader in electronic warfare technologies for the air force and navy.
The principle strengths are in electronic protection and onboard processing on platforms such as the P8 the B52 the C130 the Apache helicopter and the international F-16.
Exelis' flagship product is the Integrated Defensive Electronic Countermeasures or IDECM for the F-18 a multibillion dollar decades long program with about 400 systems delivered to-date.
About 21% of the Company is geospatial systems a leader in space and airborne sensing.
Exelis is well known for their world class space imaging business acquired about a decade ago from Codec the weather sensors as well as your GPS technology.
The imaging business has traditionally served the intelligence community but is more recently expanded to include commercial international and unmanned vehicle payloads.
Their products range from a 21 foot wide mirror on the James Webb Telescope down to small commercial payloads for the World View and GOI satellites.
They provide the Gorgon Stare wide area surveillance ponds for defense UAVs and have recently launched Corvus Eye a smaller commercial version targeting the public safety international markets demonstrating Exelis' skill in translating government technology to the commercial world.
Exelis' weather payloads have been on all NOAA weather satellites launched since 1978.
The CrIS or the Cross Track Infrared Sounder is a primary instrument on the joint polar satellite system and ABI or the Advanced Baseline Imager is the main mission sensor on GOES-R.
ABI has also been selected as the main mission sensor for Japan's Himawari and South Korea's GEO Comsat two-way weather satellite.
In GPS Exelis has been on all U.S.
GPS navigation systems ever launched and is currently delivering the first payloads for the GPS3 program.
Information Systems is about 34% of the Company and provides full life cycle mission critical solutions for customers like NASA where Exelis manages two of NASA's largest communications contracts and the FAA where Exelis owns and operates the ADS-B network a core element of the FAAs next-gen program.
Night-vision in tactical communications represents about 13% of company revenue.
Exelis has been the industry leader in night vision for over 50 years and is one of only two U.S.
manufacturers of image intensification tubes.
And their tactical communications business has a large installed base of more than 600 000 radios.
The remaining 3% of Exelis provides composite aero-structures for commercial and military aircraft.
They have 10 000 employees including about 3 000 engineers $3.25 billion in revenue and funded backlog of about $2.8 billion.
So turning to Slide 5 on the transaction details total purchase price is $4.75 billion at 23.75 per share 70% in cash 30% in Harris shares.
Bridge financing is in place and we anticipate a combination of term loans and new bonds to both finance the acquisition debt and refinance parts of existing Harris and Exelis debt at what are historically low interest rates.
Pro forma net leverage will be about 2.9 times net-debt to adjusted-EBITDA at closing with significant pre-payable debt and the opportunity to rapidly deleverage.
This structure provides balance sheet flexibility and preserves our ability to invest for growth while we reduce net leverage to about 1.5 times by year three.
Of course this is subject to approval by Exelis shareholders as well as customary regulatory approval and we expect the transaction to close in June of this year.
On Slide 6 as you may know Exelis has a very large pension liability relating to the legacy ITT business with an unfunded liability of $1.9 billion at the end of 2014.
Current historically low interest rates should provide a strong positive bias to net under funding overtime.
We have done significant due diligence work with specialist outside advisers and with a high-level of government cash reimbursements and the smoothing that is allowed in the recent MAP-21 legislation pension funding requirements are clear and fully factored into our thinking.
On a pro forma basis pension liability as a percent of market cap is well in line with defense peers.
Turning to Slide 7 this is a highly strategic and compelling combination that generates significant value for our customers.
The complementarity between the two company’s technology and capabilities strengthens our core franchises and provides optionality for portfolio shaping.
It also builds a stronger platform for growth and immediately creates significant scale and more balanced earnings for Harris.
Cost synergies are meaningful and the timing of the transaction is excellent given the confluence of an improving budget environment low interest rates and a team with the background and the experience to successfully integrate the two companies.
So let me say a few words about each in turn.
Now turning to Slide 8 we bring together complimentary technologies and capabilities that strengthen our core franchise in space and intelligence advanced weather systems air-traffic management and tactical communications.
On a pro forma basis our classified business is about $1 billion in size with significant growth potential.
For example by combining Exelis’ world-class electro-optical technology with our market leading RF capability we will be able to offer responsive multi-mission solutions to the intelligence community.
In weather our tighter linkage between Exelis’ on-orbit sensors and Harris’s ground processing capabilities can help customers increase performance lower cost and improve time to market for new weather systems.
By having increased access to unique data sets we can accelerate apportion to value-added services and predictive analytics.
In air-traffic management Exelis is strong in surveillance while Harris is the leader in communications and the combined company will be the prime contract on four key FAA next-gen programs.
And finally our combined tactical communications businesses will drive significant scale efficiencies across our supply chain and our manufacturing assets.
But the combination also provides a stronger platform for growth.
And on Slide 9 we highlight a few examples leveraging our complimentary international channels pairing our world-leading radios Exelis’ night vision offering and putting our avionics onto Exelis’ existing platforms and then finally accelerating growth in value-added services in geospatial weather and airport operations.
So moving to Slide 10 this acquisition creates scale and improves our competitive position in the government market and also results in a more balanced earnings profile for Harris.
In Slide 11 our diligence work has been thorough and we are confident we can achieve run rate cost synergies of $100 million to $120 million net of what is returned to customers through cost plus contracts and fixed price contracts that periodically reset.
The breakdown of savings is roughly one-third from consolidating headquarters eliminating public company cost one-third from operational improvements like manufacturing supply chain and program efficiencies and one-third from functional efficiencies and overheard reductions.
The cash payback is under two years.
Now turning to Slide 12 transaction value was $4.75 billion a multiple of 9.3 times 2014 EBITDA.
We expect GAAP EPS to be slightly accretive in the first year and a significant contributor thereafter with free cash flow approaching $1 billion in year four.
And then finally on Slide 13 the timing for such a transformational acquisition is excellent both internally and externally.
Over the last three years since joining the company we've focused on improving fundamentals and shaping our portfolio.
And in the face of a constrained government budget and declining revenue environment we aggressively addressed our cost structure by taking restricting actions and establishing a formal companywide operational excellence program.
Our Harris business excellence program is now in its third year and it’s embedded in our culture and the management team stands ready to integrate the two companies to achieve our cost synergy targets.
A full time senior level integration team is being assembled from the best of both companies and includes my direct oversight.
The timing is also excellent from an external point of view the U.S.
government spending cycle has bottomed and recent world events only stress the importance of defense and national security spending.
The President's DOD base budget for fiscal '16 is up about 8% and even under sequestration is up modestly with steady growth in the out years.
Interest rates are at historical lows and we estimate that our pro forma cost of debt will be about 200 basis points below where Harris is today with a weighted average time to maturity of an additional two years.
So as we enter an improving macro-environment our combined company becomes a strong platform for top-line growth with our lower cost structure and greater operating leverage driving excellent earnings growth.
Now before opening the line for questions I'd like to turn to Dave for his perspective on the transaction.
Dave? Thanks Bill and good morning to everyone.
We at Exelis are very excited about this unique opportunity to bring these two great and complementary companies together.
The combined enterprise is very well positioned to be more competitive in the marketplace and will benefit shareholders customers and our employees.
This transaction provides immediate value to Exelis shareholders as well as long-term upside potential from the equity ownership stake in Harris.
We've made a lot of progress since the ITT spin to focus the company and we built a strong leadership team with talented and dedicated employees.
I am confident about the long-term prospects of the Exelis businesses and even more optimistic about the future ahead of us in combination with Harris.
This is indeed an exciting day for us all.
And with that I'll turn it back to Bill.
Thank you very much Dave.
Let's open the call to questions.
Just a couple of questions one Harris specific and then one about the transaction first off the comment about the CapRock guidance planning on weakness materializing there in the back half of the year because of oil and gas.
Can you just help us quantify what kind of decline your I guess I would say protecting for there? And then just with respect to the transaction maybe for Bill and for Dave.
When you look at the customer and channel overlaps and the comments you made about them being complementary.
If you could kind of rank order what some of those are and what you think the best opportunities in various end markets if they're space or if they are commercial and commercial communications? Any color there I think would be helpful.
Thank you.
On CapRock in the last call I commented a bit on the impact of oil prices at the time oil price was sitting around $75 a barrel plus or minus and we had not yet seen really anything running into our financials we ended up having a very strong second quarter as I mentioned with orders very strong and revenue up solidly in energy double-digit.
We feel pretty good about that but with oil sitting today below 50 we're seeing a little more pressure coming in the half it's coming in more in the form of pricing we've quite a few long-term contracts in CapRock.
But even under long-term contracts we will see we do expect to see some pricing pressure and that’s going to pressure margins it’s going to pressure top-line growth as well.
So we have accommodated for that in our new earnings guidance for INS and this is why we sort of sized of being revenue down about 10%.
Mick did you want to offer any more on CapRock in the back half? Yes so what I would like to note is that it’s all relative we were expecting some growth in the back half and now it’s more stable more than anything so it’s growth typically.
And on the transaction I would say a couple of words about this and maybe ask Dave to jump in as well but.
Look as we looked at the mix of the portfolios here there is quite a lot of complementarity in the spaces that I talked it.
In space in traffic management surely in the weather franchise we both are in the tactical radio business have been there for quite some time and we do see a lot of opportunities to work together in the international market through the channels that we happen to have as I mentioned about perhaps providing some products through the pretty strong existing Exelis international sales channels.
And I am very excited about the opportunities in value-added services taking some of the capabilities and unique data sets that come out of the sensors that we have and packaging them in a way that we can sell to a very large fragmented by growing quickly value-added services market.
Frankly here Exelis is out ahead of us.
They have got a very sizable business in this area they have made a few acquisitions in this space and we have started we have been working on this for a year or two our team down at GCS and I think the combination of what they have done and the capabilities that we bring I am pretty excited about the growth trajectory in value-added services Dave anything to offer? Yes no I think we are both very excited about is that if this combination offers a full suite of capabilities across space airborne naval ground and cyber domains and with a number of leading positions in each of those.
I echo Bill’s comment with respect to the international sales we both have different products that we sell around the world and now we have a much more expansive international network in which to sell those capabilities.
And I agree with the integrated end-to-end solutions comment for sensing communications information process and analysis and distribution.
So I really like the fact that the leadership positions that we have with organizations like NASA FAA and our communications customers will only be enhanced by this deal.
If you wouldn’t mind either Bill or Dave kind of talk for a couple of minutes on some of the deal metrics and I have sort of one or two questions and if you could help that would be appreciated.
First you talk about some of the cash investment cost did you include in that some of the refinancing in there? And then second if I am thinking about the cost of funds based on sort of where rates are today and I know they can move we are looking is a 4% kind of range a reasonable number? And then last related to that while you have some terrific synergies you also have from the GAAP perspective my guess would be some either amortization or some intangibles and some of that’s going to be frankly non-cash so there is some real benefit there that GAAP will mask and it will also create some tax shelters.
If you wouldn’t mind sort of providing a little bit of structure to that I would really appreciate it? It’s a quite a mouthful Howard thank you.
And I am going to start I think got most of the points but perhaps between Mick and I will hit your points and if we miss one let’s keep going on with that.
So in terms of the structure we expect we will close in June.
So there are going to be a number of transaction-based costs that will hit in June and will be impacting our fiscal ’15.
As we go into fiscal ’16 we do see the transaction to be slightly accretive.
We do expect that of course while the Exelis EBIT coming in in our fiscal ’16 so that’s going to be a positive.
We see integration cost which are going to be a little bit more front-end loaded in fact a lot more front-end loaded hitting fiscal ’16 and there will be more than the savings we get from integration.
We do see in the first full fiscal year some benefit from the pickup of unamortized pension losses that we know exist at Exelis and it's going to be offset by deal amortization which will be substantial and that will be in fiscal '16.
So all of those pieces come together and we do see a very slight accretion in our fiscal '16 again hinging on a close in June should that move into July there about our fiscal '16 of course would be impacted by that.
You asked the question about the cost of borrowing about 4% we do expected to be lower than that and we were thinking Mick on our weighted average basis it will be sort of between 3 and 4 about 3.5% so Mick any other comments Mick on that? Yes absolutely.
I think in FY15 we will have refinancing cost which are not included but we will also incur some deal costs some financing fees and a little bit of restructuring.
Moving on to the cost of funds the way we hope to finance this as alluded beforehand is 30% of equity and 70% of debt we're taking the opportunity to refinance some of our short-term debt and in order to have rapid prepayment about half of our debt is going to be within five years and more than half of that would be term loans that which are very easily prepay.
So the cost of debt for the company will go down as we alluded to about 200 basis points that will be at or about or below 3.5% though.
So Howard did I hit all the comments or the questions that you asked? More or less I mean I just think the thing that is striking and very impressive is that the cash of synergies overtime are going to be very strong and it is very complementary I mean if anything my observation is I was slightly higher but I guess you want to be start out conservative but no Bill this is great thank you very much.
And I'd echo Carter’s comments about Joe and I guess though first question on the pro-forma of free cash flow approaching 1 billion in year four just wonder what kind of top-line assumption you're factoring into to get to that? We do see that the business together will start to grow on the top-line probably in fiscal '16 more likely in fiscal '17 or still we sort of put together our plan we're not giving guidance today on fiscal '16 but I think all indications are for top-line growth but frankly when you just look at the free cash generation of our combined companies today you look at the cash contributions which are more smooth going in the future for Exelis associated with the pension and then the cash return from synergies being generated by year four we do see ourselves approaching about $1 billion in free cash.
And that is also looking at there will be probably some opportunities in capital spending since we do have very complementary businesses it's very likely we'll have some opportunities to take a hard look at how we each spend capital and look for opportunities as well.
So all those pieces together Pete come together to drive us about $1 billion in about four years.
And then just on the I must have missed your comments about the cash investment cost of 130 million to 150 million so those aren’t transaction cost those are restructuring cost maybe or something else? That's correct they're synergy cost investments to capture synergies and again I want to be very clear those investment costs and the savings on that chart are net of what we would be working with our government customer on.
So that is what is accruing to our shareholders.
And then I guess my last question just I mean obviously you guys are one of the few companies in the industry to kind of utilize the commercial pricing model and I was wondering if you had any thoughts as you were looking at this deal surrounding an opportunity to take your commercial pricing model to certain of Exelis’ products or is that just not applicable? Well I think we on our commercial pricing model or commercial model at Harris is mostly in our RF business and I think when you look at the NVCS business from Exelis it follows a largely the same model I think on the rest of Exelis it looks more like what we see at GCS which is sort of more typically government type permanent record type programming.
So I think that's what I think would look very similar from that perspective Pete.
I wanted to ask if you could just help quantify what you anticipate the intangibles amortization to be because this deal actually does look a heck a lot of more accretive at first flash than you are indicating.
So I am trying to understand if you could quantify intangibles maybe some of the other items that we are not thinking about in year one and two? Yes look maybe just a little bit more color I mean we just -- we are announcing it today we have got a lot of work here to do to sharpening the numbers and we will do that between now and closing provides you a little bit more guidance as we understand the pieces quite a bit more.
I would say of the total investment it’s going to be more front-end loaded it will be more in fiscal ’16 sort of on the order of two-thirds will come up in the first year then it will flow down in the second year maybe a third with little trickling into the second year and then a little more trickling into the third year.
We see the intangible amortization to be in the range of about $130 million to $140 million is our estimate today.
We do see savings starting to flow in in fiscal ’16 but as I mentioned integrated cost will be higher than the savings and then it starts to flip as you get into fiscal ’17 so more savings than cost and you start to hit more run rate into fiscal ’18 where cost of integration are relatively low.
I think those are the major pieces that I think I could probably comment on here today Mick anything? A couple of accounting nuances first and foremost just based on the latest 10-Q Exelis has about $24 million in intangible amortization per annum and the purchase accounting that will go away so the 130 is that we mentioned before here 130 to 140 is what we will incur.
So you have to take into account when you combine both firms.
And then also of import in their pension they have a net of converted actuarial loss which with purchase accounting also goes way and you can calculate that.
I think the last reported number for that was $2.3 billion as of the end of ’13 and the amortization of that is in the range of around $80 million to $100 million per year.
Okay so that’s 80 million to 100 million of sort of additive to the P&amp;L or… Probably on the lower-end of that yes.
Okay so the EBIT that you guys are assuming from Exelis is an excess of the $400 million or so that they report is that what you are suggesting to be clear? Yes.
And then with respect to the cash investment cost on Slide 11 that is specifically for what? If you could just give is it the three buckets that you talked about on the left there? Or is that inclusive of other deal costs that you haven’t called out.
Yes we should be very clear about that it really refers to what’s on the left.
There are no deal costs that are in the 130 to 150 those are investments that specifically yield a return or savings of synergy.
And so what order of magnitude are we talking about with the deal cost you have yet to quantify? I think we are going to maybe sort of use that as an opportunity to communicate a little further down the path to investors on what that happens to be at this point Gautam.
They are going to be in our fiscal ’15 we will come back to you and others over the coming weeks with a little bit more shape around what those costs happen to be.
Just given the move with the INS headquarters and now with the Exelis assets are there other areas in the legacy portfolio such as healthcare which may not be as strategic going forward.
I think you might have mentioned portfolio optionality? Yes well clearly when you take the two combined companies and put them together we will take a hard look as we have done and I know Dave has done in his portfolios to the strategy and the strategic rationale of holding on to assets.
Of course we will have a broader look across our broader portfolio and we will continue to do what we each have one individually on the broader portfolio that’s not our near-term focus certainly our near-term focus right now is on getting from sign to close closing the deal launching integration making sure of a successful post-merger integration period.
And that’s what we are laser focused on at the moment.
Clearly there is going to be a realignment of the way we are organized in this transaction and what we've decided to do with the INS headquarters is a relative to what Harris was doing standalone but also relative to what we're preparing ourselves to do in a close.
So it's completely along that same direction and that's as far I would comment today on any portfolio shaping.
And then maybe just I have other question what’s the DOD’s position just on M&amp;A transactions such as these right now? Well look I think our defense customers in fact all of our customers are going to be excited about this transaction I think they're very interested in a vibrant stable industrial base they're interested in enterprises that invest in innovation and technology and we've demonstrated a willingness and ability to do that they are interested in innovation but affordable innovation and they'll be sharing in the savings associated with the consolidation of these companies.
They're stimulating competition in the industrial base and I think we'll be a more competitive franchise.
So in my belief all of our customers including our defense customers will be quite excited about the transaction.
On the business if I look at RF on the top line for the remainder of the year it looks like you have to have a pretty nice acceleration going from a revenue decline to revenue growth there.
And the comps aren't much easier when comparing to last year and order of momentum is a little bit stagnant.
So can you maybe just talk about what's picking up in the back half within RF? We do see a little bit of a softer public safety outlook we do see DOD strengthening a little bit because there is a budget and there is flow down of funding we see that picking up and we're seeing a lot more activity on the DOD side but frankly we're very encouraged by the strength and resilience of our international tactical pipeline it’s strong remains about $2.5 billion even when we continue to book orders it continues to refresh quickly.
I have talked at some length about what's in it and the prospects on the horizon a lot of activity is moving in the pipeline and we feel very good about what's happening in the back half in international tactical radio.
So today we see international tactical up a little bit more than we thought a quarter ago offsetting a little bit of the softness we see in public safety.
Our DOD outlook for the year really hasn’t changed since we started the year.
So what kind of full year international growth rate are you looking for now? So what kind of full year international growth rate are you looking for now? I don’t think we're going to talk about sort of the international business tactical on a standalone basis.
But we do see that to be up.
Last time we were saying it's up low single-digits it’s probably up a little more than that like mid to high single-digits in that range.
As last time we said DOD was going to be down low double-digit it's about the same sort of -- as I mentioned them before down 10% to 12% so that hasn't changed.
PSPC where we thought it was flat is more of down mid single-digit.
So hopefully that characterizes a bit more how we see the full year in RF.
And then kind of the same question on the margin in the segment can you maybe elaborate a little bit on what was weaker in the quarter and then to get into the range for the full year of the back half has to pickup pretty nicely versus the trend of kind of ongoing pressure we've seen there so what drives that in the back half? Yes and that is a good question I mean look overall we’ve been pretty consistent at that margin guidance for the year in RF business 30% to 31%.
In the first half we're a little light we're at 29.5% roughly for the first half came in at around 29 in Q2.
In Q2 we had some adverse mix we had a lot of systems business we had some additional R&amp;D expenses that rolled through in the quarter in Q2.
And I have been very-very clear on these calls about our willingness to invest more in our RF business particularly in tactical radios and you've seen those investments flowing through.
And of course in Q2 we had given the volume slightly lower margins in public safety than we had anticipated earlier in the year the second half is going to get stronger because we will see much stronger product mix coming through the business and we feel very confident that will come in at between 30% and 31% on a full year basis.
And then could you similarly update us on the pieces of INS for the full year in terms of a growth rate in the IT services business and in CapRock? What we're seeing in these businesses as particularly in HITS on a year-to-year basis they've lost two major -- wind down of two major programs we know about the NMCI and so that is a significant year-on-year.
When I look at the revenue for HITS what you'll find is declined in low double-digits but the commercial is continuing to do well.
On healthcare it continues to grow year-on-year and all-in-all it's up macro environments right we're having energy issues oil prices are affecting that.
And then if I can just ask one more on the transaction could you guys talk a little bit about what your diligence found on the ADSB program over at Exelis seems like a large long opportunity but also seems like the type of thing that can take longer than expected or kind of easily slide to the right and so I was just curious how you were thinking about that program? Well I'm not going to go into specifics on what we found in diligence I think Dave and his team have talked a lot about the strength with the FAA the maturity of the ADSB program and the confidence that the administrator has placed in ADSB the commitment to it the drive and the mandate on equipage by 2020 holding firm on that and we feel good as I think Dave and his team feel about ADSB it's a great program they're performing very-very well.
I think the FAA is very pleased and it's going to fit very nicely with the things that we do today with the FAA as you know we were on the FTI program we've been on that for 15 to 20 years we have been envy the next-generation voice switch program as well as datacom so I think the programs that we work on with FAA and the strong reputation we've there with the FAA is going to be augmented by the very strong reputation that Exelis enjoys on ADSB with the FAA as well so I think we feel very good overall with our position there.
Okay I appreciate it.
I think it wraps us up for today.
Thank you everyone for joining us and let me know how I can help you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Harris Corporation's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later there will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's call maybe recorded.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Pamela Padgett Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our third quarter fiscal 2015 earnings.
I'm Pamela Padgett and on the call today is Bill Brown Chairman and CEO and Mick Lopez Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
And before we get started a few words on forward-looking statements.
In the course of this teleconference Management may make forward-looking statements.
Including regarding the acquisition we announced today.
Forward-looking statements involve assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those statements.
For more information and a discussion of such assumptions risks and uncertainties please see the press release and filings made by Harris with the SEC.
In addition our press releases and on this teleconference and the related presentations we will discuss certain financial measures and information that are non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to the comparable GAAP measures in respect of our third quarter fiscal 2015 financial results is included on the Investor Relations section of our website which is www.harris.com.
A replay of the call will also be available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
And with that Bill I will turn it over to you.
Okay well thank you Pam and good morning.
Our third quarter results were in line with our preliminary release issued April 21 which opened our debt financing window for the Exelis acquisition.
We've very successful bond offering and we're making progress towards an expected June closing and we'll discuss this further later in the call.
So before turning to Slides three and four of the presentation I'll point out that we're now reporting on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis to call our acquisition related cost separately.
In my comments today it will around non-GAAP performance which excludes acquisition cost.
Third quarter earnings per share was $1.32 and benefitted from a lower than expected tax rate that added $0.07 per share.
Earnings per share also reflected good operating performance benefitting from lower cost excellent execution and a favorable product mix in RF Communications and government communication systems.
Operating margin was 100 basis points higher than in the prior year even with higher R&amp;D investment which was up 8% in the quarter with some of the increase due to timing between the third and fourth quarters.
Year-to-date R&amp;D investment is 5.6% of total revenue with a significant portion being spent in the Tactical Radio business where we're aggressively developing product offerings for upcoming army and SOCOM modernization procurements.
Revenue for the company was $1.19 billion down 6% with Tactical revenue growth more than offset by further weakness in public safety and a significant decline in integrated network solution primarily from the wind down of two major programs in IT services.
As anticipated revenue also declined in government communication systems largely due to a tough prior year compare related to revenue from commercially hosted satellite payloads.
Orders in the quarter were $1.2 billion up 9% over the prior year and up 9% sequentially.
Both RF Communications and government communication orders were up sequentially.
Tactical Communications revenue was up 6% on continued international strength and some improvement in the U.S.
market.
Procurement activity picked up in March and April as GFY15 procurement dollars were allocated to our DoD customers including SOCOM where we received orders totaling $27 million to continue expanding their Wideband networking capability.
And momentum continues to build for U.S.
Tactical modernization.
Just last week Harris was awarded a 10-year $3.9 billion IDIQ contract for the rifleman radio with an $800 000 initial order for qualification and test units.
The army expects to begin fielding rifleman before the end of GFY17.
The army also recently kicked off their long awaited procurement for the Manpack.
A draft RFP was released in April and was quickly followed up by an industry day as well as the first quarterly tactical networking form which had intended to provide the industry with greater insight into the army’s upcoming procurement requirements.
The final RFP is anticipated before the end of September with an awarded 2Q GFY16 and full rate production slated to begin in 4Q GFY17.
Preliminary information from the army indicates a 10-year multi-award IDIQ contract with the ceiling value between $12 billion and $12.7 billion.
And at SOCOM last quarter we submitted our bid on a $390 million handheld portion of SOCOM’s modernization program with an award anticipated in September and just a few days ago SOCOM issued an RFI for their Manpack which we currently expect will be awarded in the Spring of 2016.
The total SOCOM modernization procurement which will eventually include a high-frequency radio could reach $900 million.
Now winning rifleman radio on top of the mid-Tier MNVR radio a few years back and now having major procurement underway for both the army Manpack and SOCOM is the culmination of a multi-year multi-pronged effort for Harris.
Over the last several years we worked hard to ensure army procurements are open to commercial competition and then more recently pushed for multi-vendor versus a single vendor award to ensure a level playing field with the program of record.
We invested more in IRAD when the rest of the industry was investing less raising R&amp;D spend by more than 20% through the downturn and today we sealed with one of the best lineups of Tactical products and technologies than we’ve ever had.
And with modernization procurements now underway and larger than anticipated Harris is well positioned to capture a significant multi-billion dollar opportunity.
We also see continued strength in the international Tactical market where our business is now twice the size of our U.S.
Tactical business.
Recent orders include $25 million and $60 million from two NATO countries highlighting our broad installed base around the world allowed us to be more competitive in supplying radios to allied countries where inoperability is a critical element for collation actions.
We also received orders of $22 million and $47 million from two countries in the Middle East and from a country in Africa we received $15 million in the quarter plus $74 million following the close of the quarter through the next phase of modernization bringing orders to-date to $486 million.
The international market is healthy and our opportunity pipeline remains solid at $2.5 billion and continues to replenish quickly.
In Government Communication Systems we continue to build on our strong position with the FAA and received our third major next gen award and in the year $238 million single award IDIQ for the Common Support Service Weather Program to design and implement a system to provide real-time weather information across the National Airspace System.
Also from the FAA we booked $146 million in follow-on orders under our long standing FTI program only provide the ultra reliable network backbone of the U.S.
air traffic control system connecting 4500 different sites across the country.
Our DoD business within GCS continues to ramp with F35 and our strong intelligent franchise provides a platform for future growth.
New classified contract wins in the quarter totaled $133 million including a three year $23 million contract from a new customer for space situation awareness and support of air force mission.
And also in the Intelligence area Harris was awarded a five-year $300 million single vendor IDIQ contract to integrate various intelligence systems.
Now I’ll turn over to Mick to comment on segment results and guidance before providing an update on the pending Exelis acquisition.
Mick? Thank you Bill and good morning everyone.
Moving to segment results on Slide 5 RF Communications orders were $395 million $393 million compared to $405 million in the prior year and revenue was $451 million compared to $457 million last year.
Tactical Communications revenue was $356 million an increase of 6%.
All orders were $286 million and about flat from prior year of $285 million.
In public safety market softness and intense competitive pressures continued.
Orders were $107 million compared to $120 million in the prior year and revenue was $95 million compared to $122 million last year.
Operating income for RF Communications was $151 million and operating margin was a strong 33.5% as a result of favorable mix primarily in international and from lower cost.
Turning to Government Communications Systems on Slide 6 third quarter revenue was $455 million down 5% compared to $477 million in the prior year.
Higher revenue from the U.S.
Navy’s Commercial Broadband Satellite Program and the NGAs Foundation GEOINT Content Management Program was more than offset by lower revenue from space customers and from NOAA’s those are weather program that’s transitioned to an integration and test space.
Segment operating income was $75 million and operating margin was 16.4% reflecting strong program performance and favorable product mix.
Turning to Integrated Network Solutions on Slide 7 third quarter revenue was $299 million compared to $348 million in the prior year with the decline primarily due to the roll off of two large programs in IT services.
Operating income was $12 million compared to $21 million last year primarily due to the wind down of the highly profitable and MCI contract.
During the quarter IT services was awarded a 10-year $450 million single award IDIQ from the Defense Information Systems Agency to provide systems engineering and program management services the crisis management system for CMS a secured video and voice communications network for senior US government officials.
This award extends our 30-year relationship supplying this critical component of our national security infrastructure.
Also in IT services we were awarded a position on the $960 million multi-award IDIQ contract for network-centric solutions to application services.
In CapRock we strengthened our relationships with two longstanding energy customers.
In the quarter we received a $35 million order from a major offshore oil and gas pillar for four-year extension of services across their fleet and two orders totaling $21 million from a leading energy services company extending services across United States and International locations.
Turning to Slide 8 the company generated free cash flow of $150 million up from the prior year's $120 million as a result of lower CapEx with the completion of GCSS new engineering facility.
Our non-GAAP tax rate was 29.9% in the quarter lower than previously expected due to favorable 2014 tax settlement.
As announced on April 21 the increased fiscal 2015 guidance for non-GAAP income from continuing operations per diluted share from a range of $4.95 to $5.05 to a range of $5 to $5.10 and updated revenue guidance from a decline in a range of 1% to 3% to an expected decline of about 4%.
Fiscal 2015 non-GAAP guidance does not include any impact from pending acquisition of Exelis.
GAAP results will include potential post closing revenue and income from Exelis increased share count from the transaction and acquisition-related cost that are expected to be in the range of $270 million to $290 million including a $125 million in estimated may whole cost associated with the refinancing of Harris debt.
In RF Communications to reflect further weakness in public safety we now anticipate revenue to be down 3% to 4% and expect to be at the higher end of our previous operating margin guidance of 30% to 31%.
In Government Communication Systems revenue guidance is unchanged that's up 2% to 4% of operating margin slightly higher in the range of 15.5% to 16%.
In integrated network solutions revenues now expected to be down 14% to 15% to reflect no improvement in the slow procurement environment for IT services and an incrementally softer outlook at CapRock due to impact of lower oil prices on the energy market and to a lesser extent in healthcare due to a slower revenue ramp.
We now expect fiscal '15 operating margin of about 6%.
Expectations for free cash flow aren’t changed at about 100% of non-GAAP net income.
The tax rate is now expected to be 30% which adds $0.05 per earnings per share for the full year.
Back to you Bill.
Okay.
Thank you Mick.
When we began fiscal 2015 we anticipated that the constrained budget environment and slow procurement would create some revenue challenges.
In Government Communication Systems where we're on a path to revenue growth for the fiscal year our strategy of expanding already strong franchise helped overcome government budget constraints.
In RF Communications strength in international tactical markets has continued and we have a healthy set of opportunities and while it's premature to call a bottom to the U.S.
tactical market we’re seeing the back half improvement we expected and the momentum building on the large DOD monetization procurements is encouraging.
In both Government Communication Systems and RF Communications bottom line performance is excellent.
So while we see positive indicators in our two largest businesses our revenue challenge in the fiscal '15 have been greater than anticipated in public safety in an integrated network solutions.
In public safety the market is soft and competition is aggressive.
We’re focused on recovery and making measurable improvements in quality and execution and we continue to build our Leadership Team and invest in new products.
This quarter we introduced our new XG15 portable radio which extends our full suite of product offerings and provides public service workers with P25 capability at a competitive price.
We’ll continue to focus on execution and delivering innovative products for our customers which we believe ultimately bear fruit as the market improves.
In CapRock while orders were up 24% with energy orders up 27% in the quarter we now expect first half revenue growth to turn into a revenue decline in the back half.
Our customers are reacting to the persistently low oil prices and taking actions today that even they didn't contemplate just a few months ago.
We’re responding by not only working to lower cost but to also provide technology that will improve the competitiveness and stickiness of our managed communications offering.
In 3Q we launched what we call CapRock One a multiband antenna and software that transparently switches between C KU and KA bands to provide the most optimal and cost effective transport medium and is getting great response in the marketplace.
The acquisition Exelis builds on the stronger parts of Harris is an exciting transformative new chapter for the company.
We've now secured debt financing for the acquisition and at very favorable terms which we've outlined on Slide 10.
A $1.3 billion variable rate term loan is in place which provides us a path for quickly deleveraging post acquisition and we recently issued $2.4 billion in bonds a portion of which will fund our redemption of $750 million in existing higher coupon Harris notes to take advantage of low interest rates and to extend maturity.
The $2.4 billion in new bonds are at a weighted average coupon of about 3.7%.
As anticipated we significantly reduced our weighted average cost of debt including the variable rate terms loans to about 3.5% 240 basis points below our previously weighted average cost of 5.9% and with two years longer time to maturity.
We now expect year one net interest expense of $180 million to $190 million and our balance sheet will retain ample liquidity with about $300 million of remaining cash on hand at an existing revolver of $1 billion.
While we received a second request from the Department of Justice we don’t expect any trust clearance to require the divestiture of any business or asset.
The request for additional information is related to intellectual property needed to update the inscription in Singar’s radios to meet an NSA 2024 requirement for secret communication.
The army is considering whether to upgrade the encryption capabilities of these older radios and much of the information requested is intended to help determine if the army has all the intellectual property it would need to enable other companies to compete for that encryption modification work.
We anticipate resolving these concerns promptly.
The Exelis shareholder vote has been set for May 22 and we continue to expect the transaction to close in June.
Integration planning is well underway with a full time highly experienced team led by Sheldon Fox Group President of Government Communications Systems.
Sheldon is a 31-year veteran of the Government market with deep experience in key areas where Exelis and Harris have complementary businesses such as in space and intelligence advanced weather systems and air-traffic management and of course I am personally deeply involved and will spend a significant amount of my time over the next several years to ensure we capture the full value of this acquisition.
Since announcing the acquisition the additional work we've done has only given us more confidence in delivering the previously estimated savings of $100 million to $120 million which you'll remember is net of what flows back through to our government customers.
We're working hard to accelerate synergy capture and be at a running start on day on following the close.
And with that I would like to ask the operator to open the lines for question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Carter Copeland of Barclays.
You may begin.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning.
Just a couple of quick ones first on the CapRock decline I know last quarter you had sort of outlined that you were protecting for weakness in that market but not really knowing how to size it just yet but obviously we're a quarter on now.
What sort of declines are you expecting now at this point and do you think you'll hit a sort of run rate decline by the end of the year that levels off and how should we think about how much of that is price versus volume and is there any EBIT related impact from unsold bandwidth you can't sell on some of the current contracts right now.
How should we think about the weakness there? Let me sort of describe what's happening at CapRock and then come back to your question about the bandwidth unsold piece of bandwidth.
I think we had a really good start to the year frankly in the CapRock business.
Revenue in the first half was up driven in the 3% or 4% range double-digit low double-digits on the commercial side.
Somewhat weak on the Government side but overall 3% 4% in the first half.
And we’re pretty pleased with what's happening in the Maritime space and frankly in the energy side the orders in the last two quarters were quite good and surprisingly good up about 25% in Q2 and again a little bit better than in Q3.
We do see revenue deteriorating sequentially and year-over-year in the third quarter and we expect that to continue Carter into the fourth quarter as well.
It will be down probably double digits in the fourth quarter on the energy side.
We do see CapRock as a whole being flat to down for the year and down in the back half.
With oil that’s now sitting in the $50 to $60 per barrel range I think customers today continue to react quite aggressive to what’s happening in the global oil market to try and anticipate where pricing is going to be.
They're taking very very aggressive actions and like I said in my remarks somewhat unpredictable where we were and what they were going to do back in early part of February.
They were doing a lot of restricting.
Capital spending is coming down.
They're parking and may be scarping some rigs.
They're lying the awards and acceptance of new rigs and that’s certainly having a pretty big impact on our business.
When we look at what’s happening in this downturn versus last several downturns in this global oil market we see rig count down about 30% by the end of March.
I would say we’ll be on half way through the downturns so we do expect further erosion.
We do expect it's going to carry in '16 and be a tough '16 for us.
We think the road here is going to be slow in terms stabilization and the long recovery but I would say for CapRock as a whole recall we've talked about size of energy business at about $400 million.
So it's about 8% of total Harris as we speak today even smaller when we combine it with Exelis.
So it's not a big part of the company but we do expect further pressure in the fourth quarter in the next year on on the energy side and that’s going to drag down CapRock.
Now in terms of the bandwidth fortunately we do see quite aggressive growth in the Maritime space typically in the cruise industry and that's offsetting some of the pressure that we’re seeing in the energy space and some of the bandwidth that procure for the energy side.
So you think this will be -- you find the bottom both revenue and margin terms there in fiscal '16.
We're not going to call '16 yet but we do see '16 being softer than we’re seeing right in '15 Carter.
Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up just to switch gears quickly on the Exelis synergies you briefly mentioned you talked about accelerating the synergy capture there on the $100 million to $120 million.
Now that you had couple extra months to go through this do you think there is upside to that number over time or any color in the work you’ve done in identifying and kind of sizing those opportunities? No Carter no more color today.
We still feel very comfortable at that $100 million to $120 million by year three net of what’s going to be flowed back to our government customers.
We’re working hard at it and we’re doing a lot of pre-closed planning independently on our own with some outside advisors at key root type approach.
We do expect to be running that at closing and we want to pull forward as much as we can.
But no more color today working right now and it’s getting to a close.
Great.
Thanks a lot Bill.
You bet Carter.
Thank you.
Our next question from Noah Poponak of Goldman Sachs.
You may begin.
Hi good morning everyone.
Hey good morning.
Good morning.
Bill can you just go back to that detail you’re providing on the second DoJ request and it sounds like they’re thinking about a technology upgrade and checking if they have a certain amount of IP.
I guess what would happen if they did want to do that and they didn’t have enough IP like can you maybe just give us a little bit more detail on how concerning those two or not? I can’t really give a lot more detail on this call.
There has been as you would expect there is active conversations going on with the DoJ.
And this could go in a variety of different ways I think couple of things I would say and not to just reiterate what I said in my prepared remarks.
But I think the good news is that it is narrowly contained in the Tactical Radios side it specifically relates to IP and ownership rights for IP.
It does not and we don’t believe it will require any divestiture of businesses or assets.
So we think we can get our arms around the concern this issue relatively quickly and we’re working and providing the DoJ the necessary information that they require to work through and resolve this question that they happen to have.
We’ll have more to say over the coming weeks as we take this issue forward to DoJ.
But nothing I can’t really speculate on what the outcome or solution maybe on this call.
So they just require you to give IP to the army could it be that simple? There could be a variety of responses we certainly that could be one but there is I won’t even speculate as to where they want to go in terms of addressing their particular question given that it’s a very active conversation that’s happening today with the DoJ.
I think I could provide anymore color to that Noah.
Okay.
In the legacy business with when we look at before you’re layering in some of the new business you’re winning in the domestic Tactical Radios market with DOD how do we think about how much of what you have today you’ll still have two three four years down the road when you’re also layering in all of those new business versus how much of what you have today is replaced by that new business? No they’re certainly going to be some replacement of current business but I think it’s on the margin frankly it is going to happen over a long period of time Noah.
Please keep in mind that all the radios that are today in DOD inventory it’s less than 10% maybe 5% 6% that are Y-band capable.
So I think it’s a long-term path to replace all of those Narrowband radios with Wideband radios and I think that’s going to happen over multiple years not multiple quarters.
Got it.
And then anything you can tell us about rifleman I guess terms of trade in your bid and how we can think about margins on new business revenue compared to the current margins at Harris? Even though I really like the position that we’re in today it’s something that didn’t happened over night it happened over multiple years in both ensuring competition was -- it was open to competition we can compete for those procurement dollars that we invested in radio that met the requirement was in some ways more advanced than we’re program of record was the time in which it caused some change in the competitive landscape for the rifleman radio.
We are bidding on commercial terms it’s a competitive procurement it looks much the same as what happened on the social program number of years back where it was IDIQ shoot-out between us and Tallis on task orders.
It was completely commercial.
Initial awards for rifleman for going to be LPTA Lowest Priced Technically Acceptable and over time there will be some best value type opportunities for us.
What’s interesting is that the ceiling value is quite high at about $3.9 billion and in the rifleman the RFP it was both the single channel rifleman but also they say two channel handheld over time and how that gets clicked and when that’s being brought in is still all to be determined.
So I like our position I like our scale I like the advantage our technology brings.
I like the fact that our commercial model allows us continue to invest to advance our technology and compete with whatever we have and our margins today on the handheld look great and it’s even after competing with players around the world on this switch program.
So I can’t like what we have in the outlook for our business both top line and bottom line.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
You bet.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Pete Skibitski of Drexel Hamilton.
You may begin.
Good morning guys.
Nice quarter.
Thanks Pete.
Hey Bill you sort of anticipated my question on U.S.
DOD radio volume and whether or not we were kind of at trough in fiscal 2015.
The volumes have come down quite a bit you won rifleman you mentioned MNVR what else are you kind of looking for to kind of seem at the trough.
I mentioned SOCOM win if you could get that would help quite a bit but are you worrying about the CR next year what else is kind of going into your thinking? Well we feel really good about we’re happy frankly in just the fact that the rifleman IDIQ was awarded last week and I don’t think you’ve ever heard me saying sooner than we expected when I talk about government contracting and it was sooner than we expected by a number of months and that’s because of the changes that happened in the industrial base for the rifleman radio I believe.
And it came in a lot higher than we thought in and it’s encouraging to see Manpack moving forward it’s encouraging to see the SOCOM monetization moving forward in an RFI out last week for the Manpack part of SOCOM.
So we starting to see some movement here and as I said in my remarks it is up to call to bottom and we’re seeing both sequentially and year-over-year improvement in the second half and we expected that would have happened at the beginning of the year.
If you look at the budgets there is still lot going on in the see the outlook I think it looks good for us.
It’s improving a little bit we’re looking what’s happening coming out of the house from services.
We see what the mark up is that with last week I guess was it really last week.
We showed the base at the BCI cap but a substantial amount of OCO funding in total at $585 billion in line with the President happens to be in did it follows the way we have seen past years in terms of how that budget flows down to Tactical Radio line items.
I think if it follows that it will follow where the President happens to be and if President put in a budget for showed good funding good funding growth on the MNVR product good funding growth on HMS and good funding increases in the other services and I think that’s quite encouraging.
For the HMS which is the rifleman in the Manpack there is a lot of unspent fund still available and if you look at the ramp it ramps relatively quickly over the next two to three years to close $0.5 billion a year against in the President’s budget.
You know couple of years which I think is quite encouraging so you put the fact that the Army is moving forward with the budget.
Next to the fact that the funding appears to be ramping pretty nicely over the next three or four years you put those two pieces together and then I think the outlook for business at DOD is pretty positive.
Okay.
It’s very very helpful.
Thank you.
And I want to ask another question about the transaction do you guys still fully not paying off roughly half you incurred over five years is that still the plan? Our plan is to go from 2.9 to 1.5 times net leverage over the first three years which would require us to pay make $2 billion a day roughly plus or minus in the first three years.
Okay.
Got it.
And then on the acquisition related cost roughly $280 million so you -- are those all cash first of all and will get about $125 million of that in the fourth quarter on the refinancing cost? Yes most of those are cash $125 million that we stated for the make off or the $715 million of refinancing there is approximately another $75 million which is going to be acquisition related with Exelis severance fees lease cancellations restructuring sort.
The remainder is basically fuel cost and financing for the bridge and some negative -- so most of it is cash.
And I would also just say that again presumes at June close we expect the June close but that will presume June closing.
Okay great.
Thank you very much guys.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Gautam Khanna of Cowen and Company.
You may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Bill could you comment on what effect if any the strengthening dollar and softer oil prices have on your foreign pipeline at RF? On the price of oil I think it’s a bit hard to say we haven’t seen any significant impact at the moment we do know that more than half of our international pipeline is in the Middle East Northern Africa region.
What’s interesting is that even though there is the price of oil has come down quite precipitously over the last six to nine months that piece of our pipeline on a percentage basis and the dollar basis is where it was six to nine months ago even after booking a number of large orders including one that came out just a couple of weeks ago in Africa at $74 million.
So we feel we feel pretty good about that we do know that we have a large opportunity coming over the next several years in Iraq.
We do know that the country doesn’t have a lot of foreign currency reserves oil is going to be a bigger impact on Iraq but likely fortunately it’s sort of underpinned by U.S.
funding both in the fiscal 2015 budget as well as in the fiscal 2016 proposed OCO there is funding for the Iraq treated equipped funding.
So that does backstop as a little bit for any oil related concerns in Iraq.
So overall not a concern today it doesn’t mean that won’t come in front of us over the next number of quarters.
On FX I think you know we do business around the world in U.S.
dollars and we compete against in some markets Euro based competitors so over time that could have some marginal effect if we don’t adjust price and if the Euro doesn’t improve we’re seeing -- next couple of weeks the Euro getting a little bit better.
But today no big effect but again if the dollar strengthens considerably from where we are today there could be some effect or we have to react with pricing.
Okay.
And just two others given the book-to-bill as taxable assets under one again I just wonder can you give us a sense for what you anticipate over the next couple of quarters? You mentioned the improved procurement environment since the quarter what should we expect book-to-bill to trend out in the next couple of quarters? So year-to-date book-to-bill was about 0.87 so I think given the current U.S.
government environment and some of the pretty healthy shipments we’ve made internationally I think it’s a pretty good result at 0.87 and in order to get our numbers for the year and our guidance for the year book-to-bill for the year needs to come in pretty close to one.
So we do know that there is some big opportunities that are coming on our way in Q4 and good again went out that we received a pretty good size award on the international side $74 million just a week or two ago.
And that’s I think a good positive sign.
From I am not sure going to fiscal 2016 but certainly as we look out for the balance of the year which I mean couple of months away to the end of our fiscal year we’re down year-to-date about 1% on Tactical revenues obviously to be up low single digits on the year call it a couple percent.
We do see some good growth in the fourth quarter.
That’s going to come with some good orders that we do expect and international side has been trending pretty well it’s up high single digits.
We expect it to be up high single digits for the year which means Q4 is going to be about that same level of performance.
On the DOD side it has been softer on the year-to-date basis we are down sort of in that 20% range we’re guiding to be in our guidance that we expressed little bit while ago on where RF as a whole is embedded in that is DOD down 10% to 12% and probably on the better side of that maybe down about 10%.
That requires Q4 to be quite good we typically see got Q4 being stronger sequentially from Q3 and we saw that last year our Q4 revenues about double where we were in Q3 last year.
We did see some positive movement in DOD in Q3 and it was reassuring to be -- to see positive growth after a number of quarters in a row being down year-over-year on DOD and also glad to see that the pipeline for DOD is getting a little bit better than we were three months ago.
Last time we spoke it was about $900 million or so in size today it’s about $970 million you know there is more that is weighted towards proposal closure finalization.
So the nearer term pipeline is looking a little bit better and that gives us a bit of more comfort.
At Q4 we will be better year-over-year and better sequentially in Q3 and we’re accounting on that to hit the guidance and to again come back to a full year of close to a one on book-to-bill.
I won’t speculate at the moment going into fiscal 2016 I have more to say about that once we close Exelis and report our earnings in late July.
Okay.
One last one on the eligible environment we’re seeing on the jitters programs can you comment on what you anticipate I mean how is this is going to drive margins as these programs mature I presume much likely in the -- contracts you will see substantial price reductions over time.
And I’m just curious I think Noah asked the question of cannibalization earlier.
I would like to maybe if you could just more broadly address it not just in terms of the new programs replace the single-channel 117G sales that you win Manpack for example but also just broadly on pricing.
Are we going to see a big priced out on the business that is going to take our view on RF Tactical margins much lower than where they are today? Gautam it’s this has been over a number of years a very price competitive marketplace and frankly over the last three years since I’ve been here the nature of competition the mix of DOD and international even with international by country is shifting around.
We’re increasing our systems business and yet still through all of that we’re sitting here with north of 30% margins in that segment.
And even we’ve been spending a lot more on R&amp;D and some shifts happening in public safety.
So overall we’re finding a way to take cost out preserve pricing and still preserve our position in margins north of 30%.
So we’re doing I think a very good job of managing our cost structure and prudently managing our investment pattern to maintain very strong margin in that segment.
I do think that over time we will become more price competitive it is price competitive.
The nature of who we compete against may shift a little bit but the scale advantage we have in our RF facility in Rochester the ability to drive technology differentiation in our product over time are going to be the deciding factors over time in this business to be able to preserve margins north of 30% for the RF Com segment.
So I’m not -- we’re not putting our head in the sand saying that there aren’t dynamics happening here but I am confident in the team’s ability to continue to find opportunities to both take cost out as well as invest in differentiation to maintain pricing environment that allows whole margins pretty strong in that segment.
All right.
Thank you.
You bet.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Josh Sullivan of Sterne Agee.
You may begin.
Good morning.
Hey good morning.
One of your targets with the Exelis transaction is what to achieve a $1 billion in free cash flow by year four can you just walk us through the cadence from year one to year four and maybe what are some of the gauging factors just given today’s results? Well it starts with it’s a very very high level.
It starts with what we believe our own ability to generate free cashes on the standalone basis this year if we look at our guidance 100% of the net income is center point of our 5 to 510 earnings per share.
Our free cash will be not dramatically is in at $530 million.
Where Exelis has been guiding for Counter 15 is in the $250 million to $275 million range is what they’ve guided towards.
See you just put those two numbers together it is million on a pro forma basis just putting two companies together.
You didn’t had on top of that next synergies again we’re expecting $120 million net by year three you roll that in on an after tax basis and then adding working capital improvements capital efficiency perhaps the modest adjustments over time in the cash pension cost and you start to approach a $1 billion by year four.
And that’s what we expect and that’s what we communicated back in early February.
Okay great.
And then in the public safety business is the pressure more on market demand or increased competition and then is that competition coming from existing or new entrants? Well there is a lot of shift happening in that public safety space.
There is some consolidation.
There are some shifts happening in technology and we've a very large competitor who is very focused very aggressive in a market that’s flat to down a little bit.
So those are the dynamics that are happening in this particular market space we compete in the North American LMR market that’s where we were at.
A big competitor as more of a global perspective in terms of their footprint around the world.
The market is soft.
It is very competitive.
I think that we've had internally within Harris some execution challenges which we're quickly working to solve.
They're going to solve themselves over the course of a number of months or quarters.
It's going to take some time.
We're really focused on this and we're seeing execution slowly improving.
We do see quality improving.
We do see customer satisfaction coming back up.
We’re making progress in developing and expanding our product offering.
Our team our Leadership Team is getting better.
So overall I see us improving and you'll start to see the benefits of those investments and performance showing through in the markets starts to go back.
Longer term we will see some growth in this marketplace.
More than half of the market is analog that we will go digital.
We do know over the longer period of time the market will shift to LTE.
It's good to see that FirstNet with the spectrum of options has been well funded.
It's well more than $7 billion raise in spectrum auction.
I know it's going to happen over time.
It's not going to be in the next two to three years but beyond that there is going to be an impact on Harris Corporation.
And I think it we will be prepared and well positioned to compete as the market shift to LTE.
So those are the dynamics that are really happening in the North American space that we’re face within and we’ll start to see some improvements over time.
Okay.
And then just one last one.
Within IT services are there any other large holes in the tent such as the NMCI contract over the next 12 months that we should just keep an eye on? Well NMCI was a pretty long and toll pool within and it was the vast majority of the profit in our IT space and as you know we were either going to compete and win it at very low margins or it was going to go away and unfortunately it went away.
We have no more revenue or profit coming in IT services from NMCI but we do still see the year-over-year impact and as we look over the next couple of quarters or year there is no single big IT service profit generator that looks anything like NMCI.
Okay thank you.
You bet.
Operator I think we have one more person in the queue.
Our next question is from Chris Quilty of Raymond James.
You may begin.
Thanks Bill.
I think you guys ramped up the draft RFP for Manpack type program late last month.
Were there any surprises puts or takes on that process in terms of specifications or requirements? No I think what the Army is doing I think is prudently drafting objective and threshold requirement that allows a vibrant competition to occur on the objective requirements.
And incentives over time to invest a company’s own dollars to improve their offering to hit threshold requirements over time like lower weight.
They are particularly interested in -- there is a number of dimensions it's heat it's range a lot of things but weight is a very very important factor.
The objective requirement if I remember right was that 14.6 pounds but clearly they wanted to be a lot less than that and this has been something we were laser focused on and have been working on for a couple of years and we do see opportunities to take weight down pretty substantially over the near term and go below the objective requirements and actually perhaps even get better than some of the threshold requirements for weight.
So no big surprise one of the I guess may be a surprise was on the size of the ceiling value on the IDIQ at $12 billion to $12.7 billion.
Its way above that what were thinking and of course it includes services and spares and sustaining cost a bunch of other things that's well beyond I think the opportunity set in front of Harris but still at that more than $12 billion is a quite an impressive topline ceiling value number for the Manpack Chris.
Got you and just to quantify with the rifleman program that was originated as a Army program when you look at the value of that contract is that expand beyond the Army in terms of other services? And I guess the same for the Manpack because right now you’ve got customers at SOCOM Navy Air force buying Manpack and I believe those are funded separately.
Yes in fact we interestingly the Manpack the multichannel Manpack that was developed to compete for Army procurements is being slowed outside of the Army within DOD first and we'll sell the Manpack within the Army if the provider we win a position on the IDIQ over the next several years.
So we're already selling the CMP outside of the army.
On the rifleman it's starting off as a single channel radio but interestingly SOCOM is a two channel radio and I would expect that as the Army introduce a potential two channel into the rifleman competition that whatever is being sold into SOCOM could eventually work its way to regular army over time and I see more of that shift happening as opposed to from Army out at least from the way I would see today.
And so to clarify are those changes or increments would be inclusive of the $3.3 billion to $3.9 billion contract as it stands today? My understanding is as the trailing value of $3.9 billion on the rifleman it would include a transition to a two channel over time but again what the acquisition objective is going to be restated to be what’s the mix of a single channel two channel is still to be determined and we will know more about that as the Army really starts to rethink the way they want the network to be given a lot of technology changes.
I think the same thing is probably going to happen on the Manpack.
I guess when I step back and I look at the size of where the rifleman is there almost $4 billion and the size of Manpack is north of $12 so $16 billion or $17 billion with a ceiling value between these two contracts its far above I think the opportunity set of over ten years for Harris.
Another way to look at this is just looking at what’s in the President's budget four five years out at close to $0.5 billion per year for HMS which is rifleman and Manpack if you just pick that over 10-year basis $5 billion in terms of opportunity set that sort of in line with what we had thought before about the opportunity for Harris in terms of HMS for both Manpack and rifleman.
That's sort of speculation on my part but that’s the way I would like at sizing the overall opportunity for the company.
Okay.
And you haven’t mentioned it in a while but you’ve also seem to made some good progress with regard to some of the airborne programs that are all getting reorganized? Yeah well we have a fantastic offering in the STT the Small Tactical Terminal with ViaSat which has Link 16 and UHF/VHF capabilities and the team at GCS is doing a very good job in selling that product.
The army is evaluating whether they move forward with what they're calling assault in the small airborne Link 16 terminal competition.
I think they spoke to the size sometime this summer which would have Link 16 with SRW in it and that will have a play in that if the Army goes in that direction and that’s still to be determined.
The other one that's on the drawing board is saner which is the small airborne networking radio which is SOW and WNW and that I think the army is still evaluating that.
I think I saw in the President's budget I don’t know if it's in the houseroom services markup but it's small amount like $6 million to push forward that competition on saner.
We’ll see when the budgets are actually set if that's happening but if there is a small amount of money that will be an encouragement that the Army is moving forward putting SOW and WNW into a saner product for the airborne side and if that happens I do think that we’re going to be very very well positioned to compete there.
And also quite frankly with Exelis with up to one product that they have there is an opportunity to actually put some of our own technology into that box if you will and offer greater capability for the airborne Tier as we combine ourselves with Exelis.
So I think there is a lot of different ways of looking at how we might be able to extend our strong presence on the ground to the airborne Tier.
And to clarify these are again collectively couple $1 billion incremental programs? I don’t think that they are going to be billions of dollars.
I don’t know the exact number Chris.
They're still deciding whether to move forward this competition.
So I think the jury is our last I had seen was center was sized at something like $600 million and Salt was sized at something like $200 billion but it could grow over time depending upon the platform to get put on.
So could it be a billion maybe but again I think we need to wait until we see exactly how the army wants to move forward with those two programs.
Billion here billion there pretty soon you're talking about real money.
Yes in terms of not just there but also what we've seen on the ground side as well Chris.
So yes there is lots of big opportunities for Harris and again multi billion dollars worth of opportunities over the next 10 years for our company.
Great.
Thank you.
You bet Chris.
Okay.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
I think that wraps this up for today.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Harris Corporation Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
As a reminder this call maybe recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Pam Padgett Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter fiscal 2015 earnings call.
I'm Pamela Padgett and on the call today is Bill Brown Chairman and CEO; and Mick Lopez Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
And before we get started a few words on forward-looking statements.
In the course of this teleconference management may make forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements involve assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those statements.
For more information and discussion of such assumptions risks and uncertainties please see the press release and filings made by Harris with the SEC.
In addition in our press release and on this teleconference and the related presentation we'll discuss certain financial measures and information that are non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to the comparable GAAP measures is included on the Investor Relations section of our website which is www.harris.com.
A replay of this call also will be available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
And with that Bill I'll turn it over to you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Well thank you Pam and good morning.
Fourth quarter was productive for Harris and we ended the year with solid results.
Harris standalone revenue and earnings per share met expectations and free cash flow was stronger than expected at 119% of non-GAAP net income exceeding our goal of 100%.
A significant accomplishment in the quarter was closing the Exelis acquisition on May 29 a bit sooner than expected allowing us to accelerate a few key actions and speed up the pace of integration.
On the day of closing we consolidated headquarters activities between Harris and Exelis.
On July 1 we announced our new organizational model creating four market focused segments and combining the top talent of both companies.
And then two weeks later on July 15 we announced our intent to close Exelis's Ft.
Wayne Tactical radio facility and consolidate production in our world-class Rochester manufacturing operations.
So we're off to a good start and we'll provide a little more color on our integration efforts during the call.
At the end of the quarter we closed on the sale of our commercial healthcare business to NantHealth providing the business the domain expertise and channel leverage to allow it to reach its maximum potential.
As we've expressed before the Exelis acquisition provides us unique opportunity for portfolio shaping actions and in the context of our now larger combined company will continue to take a dispassionate view in evaluating what businesses are strategic and which are better served under a different owner.
Turning now to our financial results on slide 4 of the presentation Harris earlier today reported non-GAAP earnings per share of $1.32 in the fourth quarter and $5.14 for the full year both of which include a $0.09 benefit from one month of ownership of Exelis.
Excluding the impact of Exelis's operating results for the month of June non-GAAP Harris standalone earnings per share was $1.23 in the fourth quarter and $5.05 for the full year with full year revenue down 4% all in line with prior guidance and reflecting good operating performance.
In the fourth quarter higher revenue and continued margin strength for both RF Communications and Government Communications was more than offset by the anticipated weakness in Integrated Network Solutions.
Orders for Harris standalone are $1.28 billion up 17% over the prior year and significantly higher in RF Communications and Government Communications.
Book to bill for the quarter was just about one 1% and for the full fiscal year was 0.98%.
Strategically we continue to increase our international footprint and invest aggressively in company-funded R&amp;D to position the company for future growth.
International revenue was up 2% in the quarter and 4% for the year increasing as a percentage of total revenue from 30% last year to 32% this fiscal year.
And we increased our investment in IRAD as a percentage of total revenue to 5.7% this year compared to 5.3% in fiscal 2014 and 4% just three years ago.
I was particularly pleased with our free cash flow results coming in about a $100 million above what we were guiding on Harris standalone basis due to continued tightening of capital spending and improved working capital performance including higher accounts payable.
Before turning to Mick to go through the details of the financials let me offer a few high level comments on the segments.
Revenue at RF Communications was up 2% driven by a 5% increase in tactical and a 4% decline in Public Safety.
Within Tactical continued strength in international more than offset a decline in the U.S.
which was a little lower than expected as a result of orders from two customers totaling $28 million taking a little longer to finalize and missing the quarter cut.
The majority is now booked and shipped.
Regardless of the slip back half for Tactical came in at a solid 6% growth with Q4 book-to-bill of 1.1% and 0.94% for the year.
In the international Tactical market a highlight was a five-year $55 million order from Australia for technical and logistics support to ensure combat readiness of our JP 2072 Phase 2 products that we previously shipped bringing orders to date in Australia to more than $700 million.
This latest win further strengthens our partnership with the Australian Defense Force and helps position Harris for Phase 3 of the country's multi-year battlefield communication modernization program that represents a $750 million opportunity that sits outside of our 12-month to 18-month pipeline.
In the U.S.
Tactical market we saw continued momentum for Army modernization.
As you know early in the fourth quarter we were awarded a 10-year $3.9 billion IDIQ contract for the Rifleman Radio and by late July we completed qualification testing with the customer.
On the much larger Manpack program the final RFP was released on August 3 a bit earlier than the September timeframe we previously expected with bids due in 60 days for what will be a very sizable 10-year $12.7 billion multi-vendor IDIQ contract.
The Army now intends to award up to three IDIQ contracts in December followed by qualification testing in March and customer testing in mid-summer 2016 with full rate production delivery start dates in the first quarter of our fiscal 2018 pretty much as we expected.
The published acquisition objective is for 65 000 radios and I continue to believe that we are well positioned to capture a significant portion of this multi-year multi-billion dollar opportunity.
And then finally our mid-tier MNVR radio for the Army completed limited user testing at NIE 15.2 a significant milestone towards full rate production.
LRIPS (7:55) are expected to follow with operational test and evaluation at NIE 16.2 and a full rate production award in September of 2016.
MNVR should begin to ramp in fiscal 2016 and together with Rifleman Radio should become a more significant revenue contributor and drive good growth for U.S.
Tactical in 2017 and beyond.
Revenue in Government Communications was up 1% in the quarter and 3% for the year which is an excellent result given the environment.
Major growth drivers for the year included our large classified win in geospatial imagery called Foundation GEOINT Content Management continued ramping of F-35 wireless products SATCOM terminals and Highband Networking Radios for the Army and mission radios for the airborne market.
I'll also quickly highlight a new strategic partnership with exactEarth that we announced in Q4.
exactEarth is a market leader in satellite-based remote ship tracking.
And in the fourth quarter we received a $55 million order to place 58 commercially hosted payloads on the Iridium NEXT constellation to refresh the exactEarth network.
This is the same satellite platform that host Aireon and other payloads in which Harris has the prime role and it's a good strategic win for our team.
Let me now turn over to Mick to provide some greater detail on the results and our fiscal 2016 guidance.
Mick? Thank you Bill and good morning to everyone.
Slide 5 provides a detailed reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP and to Harris standalone non-GAAP earnings highlighting $281 million in one-time deal and integration cost in FY 2015 which is in line with the $270 million to $290 million in our prior guidance.
We also incurred additional charges in Q4 of a net $32 million for restructuring and other items impacting Harris standalone business with the largest part being an intangible impairment in Integrated Network Solutions for the NMCI contract.
Excluding $0.09 per share contribution from Exelis in Q4 Harris full year EPS was $5.05.
On slide 6 we provide further detail on our ending cash balance and capital expenditures which had $148 million for fiscal year 2015 include $4 million for legacy Exelis.
Our tax rate for the quarter and year was as expected ending the year with a non-GAAP tax rate of 30.2%.
The favorable fiscal 2015 rate which we don't expect to repeat in fiscal 2016 resulted from foreign tax credits the R&amp;D tax credit and other fiscal 2014 tax settlements.
Moving to segment results on slide 7 RF Communications orders in the fourth quarter were $530 million compared to $361 million in the prior year and revenue was $505 million compared to $493 million last year.
Tactical Communications revenue was $366 million and increased 5% while orders were $402 million.
In Public Safety orders were $128 million and essentially flat compared to prior year of $129 million.
Revenue was $139 million compared to $145 million last year.
Non-GAAP operating income was $159 million excluding restructuring charges related to Public Safety.
Non-GAAP operating margin was 31.6% for the quarter and a strong 31.1% for the full year.
Turning to Government Communications Systems on slide 8 fourth quarter revenue was $485 million up 1% compared to $480 million in the prior year.
Higher revenue from the Foundation GEOINT Content Management program the F-35 program and Highband Networking Radios for the Army's WIN-T program was partially offset by lower revenue from two classified programs and the Navy's Commercial Broadband Satellite program.
Segment operating income was $66 million and operating margin was 13.7% in the quarter and a strong 15.8% for the full year.
Turning to Integrated Network Solutions on slide 9 fourth quarter revenue was $289 million compared with $373 million in the prior year a decline of 23% primarily due to the wind-down of two IT Services programs and continued end market weakness for both IT Services and CapRock.
Non-GAAP operating income was $16 million excluding charges related to restructuring and other items compared to $33 million in the prior year primarily due to the wind-down of highly profitable NMCI contract and continued weakness in commercial healthcare.
Moving to fiscal 2016 guidance on slide 10.
Today we're providing high level guidance on revenue and EPS with some color around fiscal 2016 expectations based on the legacy businesses of Harris and Exelis.
Once we have pro forma historical information for fiscal 2015 recast into our four new segments we'll provide an outlook by segment as we typically do.
We're initiating guidance for GAAP EPS in a range of $5.25 to $5.45 and for non-GAAP in a range of $5.60 to $5.80.
Fiscal 2016 non-GAAP EPS excludes about $60 million to $65 million of integration cost and a $10 million charge related to inventory step-up.
It includes about $133 million or about $0.70 per share of Exelis acquisition intangible amortization.
Fiscal 2016 non-GAAP EBIT margin is expected to be in a range of 16.2% to 16.7%.
Putting aside for a minute the cost synergies and other impacts related to the acquisition guidance reflects segment level operating margin for legacy Exelis slightly lower than the prior year fiscal pro forma of about 12.5%.
Harris segment level operating margin is expected to be about flat with the prior year based on legacy RF continued margin strength similar to a prior year a more normalized operating margin in legacy Government Communications of about 15% and for IT Services and CapRock together an operating margin of around 9%.
Other P&amp;L guidance details are outlined on slide 10.
I'll start with an update on expected synergy savings and integration cost.
Our integration team has moved aggressively to capture cost synergies and is ahead of schedule.
As a result both integration costs and savings are occurring sooner than what we previously expected.
We're now on track to achieve fiscal 2016 savings of $70 million to $75 million and expect to be at an annual run rate savings of $120 million as we exit fiscal 2017 a year sooner than our original estimate and at the top end of our prior range.
The $120 million in savings is net of savings that will flow immediately back to the government.
Integration spending was $112 million in fiscal 2015 and we expect another $60 million to $65 million in fiscal 2016.
Total integration cost is now expected to be $150 million the higher end of our prior range and net of about $25 million of expected reimbursements from the U.S.
Government which are not anticipated to begin until fiscal 2017.
As we move to our greater standardization in processes policies and operations we'll continue to look for opportunities for further integration savings.
Revenue is expected to be in a range of $7.67 billion to $7.83 billion down 3% to 5% on a pro forma basis compared with a fiscal 2015 of $8.07 billion.
Legacy Harris is expected to be down 2% to 4%.
This reflects our initial expectations for Tactical Communications of flat to down slightly with DoD flat to up low-single digits and international flat to down low-single digits and continuing weakness in Public Safety with a few percentage point decline.
In legacy Government Communications we expect another growth year of up 2% to 3%.
For IT Services and CapRock together we expect revenue to be down 13% to 15% as a result of continued end market weakness.
Legacy Exelis pro forma standalone revenue is expected to be down 5% to 6% with lower revenue from night vision and communication products and lower revenue from information systems primarily from the $85 million roll-off of the Spacelift Range System's contract that was lost last October.
Slide 11 provides some additional pension information including an anticipated FAS pension income of about $25 million and ERISA cash contributions of $173 million this fiscal year.
With cash funding remaining roughly flat at $170 million in 2017 as a result of pension smoothing provided for under the HAFA and MAP-21 legislation.
Our unfunded pension liability has declined by about $200 million to $1.9 billion at the end of fiscal 2015 principally due to the mandatory funding of the legacy Exelis SERP.
The effect of modestly higher discount rates and lower expected return on assets largely offset each other.
So let me please turn it back to Bill for a few wrap-up comments before we open the call to questions.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Mick.
The revenue outlook that Mick just described anticipates continued budget constraints and a continuing resolution through the end of this calendar year.
While the base budget even under sequestered caps is bottoming and is expected to slowly improve.
The recovery will be gradual with headwinds persisting until budgets improve and drive new program funding.
In the meantime we continue to have a robust growing pipeline of opportunities which is a positive sign for the future.
We also put in place an outstanding team leading the new organization we recently announced.
As you see on slide 12 we've organized into four market-focused segments and each segment's president is a well-seasoned executive in the government market: Chris Young with 33 years Carl D'Alessandro with 31 years and Bill Gattle and Ed Zoiss each with 28 years.
We've taken our two most senior leaders Sheldon Fox and Dana Mehnert and focused them on driving greater cost and operational efficiencies and reigniting revenue growth across our company.
I also believe we delivered on our promise to put the best of the best from both the Harris and Exelis organizations into the top jobs in the combined company with nearly half of the top 50 positions now filled by a former Exelis employee.
I think the energy and enthusiasm across the entire company is very high with a lot of excitement about our future.
So as we enter the fiscal year at a running start on integration and focused on exceeding our synergy goals and driving good earnings growth in 2016 with even higher accretion in fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2018.
To conclude on slide 13 we're executing very well on all critical integration success factors from my deep personal ownership of the integration program to the full time dedicated team led by Sheldon Fox that's driving a disciplined process with speed and precision to the close oversight of the board and the constant communication with employees.
The result is that we're now at the high end of our prior range of run rate savings achieved about one year sooner than previously expected with 90% of the actions underpinning the savings completed or in process in just 70 days since we closed.
I'm really proud of what Harris has accomplished this past year and I'm optimistic and confident about what our new team of over 23 000 dedicated employees can deliver in the future.
Together we're committed to solving our customers' most complex challenges and driving value for our shareholders.
With that I'd like to ask the operator to open the lines for questions.
Thank you.
And our first question comes from Gautam Khanna from Cowen and Company.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
LLC</span></strong> Yes.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
LLC</span></strong> I had a couple questions.
First Bill I was wondering if you could expand on your earlier comment about looking at things that could be non-core.
If you could just talk about what your return metrics are for making that evaluation.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well the first thing we're doing is I mean we're looking very hard at what fits strategically or not and we're also looking at what pieces perform well within our company.
And I think you've seen over the last couple of years our willingness to take on some tough challenges on businesses that either weren't strategic or core to our company or offer good returns to our shareholders and I think we've made good decisions that add value to our shareowners and we'll do the same thing going forward.
We really don't have any more today to report Gautam but we continue to look at the portfolio and we'll let shareholders know and you know as we make decisions.
LLC</span></strong> Okay.
And can you talk a little bit about the pension at Exelis? I know you – in the slide you mentioned the $170 million minimum payment this year.
Are there – do you have plans underway to minimize that cash payment as we move forward? Any different approach to the Exelis pension problem that you can talk about? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah certainly we can talk about that.
A lot of work has been done on the pension in the past.
As you may know in 2011 the pension was frozen to new hires.
In 2011 there was an enhanced defined contribution plan that decreased participants.
In 2012 we had a lump sum program that decreased another amount of participants.
And looking forward we're taking an approach of obligations not just for the pensions but also for some of the other obligations we have out there.
And we're looking at certainly de-risking the asset portfolio which is a concern in order to have more traditional investment matching to liabilities.
But looking at the obligations we have to stratify the pension years and future pension years and be able to offer lump sums so we're looking at some of that for the term vested and that traditional approaches.
So right now we have a comprehensive study going on we're using consultants and actuaries to determine what is the best course of action going forward.
But we will take an approach towards the pension both on the asset side and on the liability side to de-risk it and to lower the obligations.
LLC</span></strong> Okay.
And last one sale synergies can you talk about any opportunities that you're seeing that are contemplated in the guidance or not? I don't know does it include any sale synergies or have you seen (24:01)? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
First of all it does not include any sale synergies.
Right now we're focused on the cost side that we've got out of the gates very very quickly.
As we've talked before the deal was justified on cost savings not revenue upside.
We clearly do see revenue opportunities over time.
We have a very good team focused on that we're organized in a way to go and capture some of the revenue upside by the four market focused segments.
I think importantly we put one of our most seasoned executives that you know well on Dana Mehnert.
On top of global business development one of his key responsibilities is to identify and go out and capture some of those revenue opportunity between the company.
So something we'll say more about over the course of fiscal 2016 maybe not next quarter but certainly over the course of the year.
LLC</span></strong> Well congratulations on the great results guys and good luck.
Thank you.
Gautam thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from Carter Copeland from Barclays.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Pardon me Mr.
Copeland please check your mute button.
We'll move to the next question.
Our next question is from Seth Seifman from JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
Good morning and congratulations on a successful transaction.
I was wondering as you look ahead and I know it's obviously very early to start talking about what might happen beyond next year.
But when do you think about the overall company and maybe Exelis specifically moving to top line growth? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well look we're entering a fiscal 2016 where we still have some friction in the system with the government budgets.
We do expect ACR to go through the balance of the year.
It could extend beyond that we'll see over the next several months as to what's happening in DC and that does put some challenges in our business and certainly with Exelis as well.
But we do see even under a sequester budget budget is improving in fiscal 2017 2018.
I'm very very encouraged that we are seeing some of the modernization spending on Tactical radio start to move.
And I feel good about where we're at on Rifleman I'm really glad to see the Manpack RFP come out a couple of days ago.
I'm glad to see that they are moving quickly with a 60-day proposal time period and expected to make awards in December if all things go smoothly in negotiation.
So these I think are good signs that there is money moving or will move over time and I do feel pretty optimistic that that'll allow our company to grow maybe not next year but certainly in years beyond that Seth.
Thank you.
Great thanks.
Thanks.
And then maybe just as a quick follow-up on the international radios and can you talk about maybe being flat to slightly down next year you could just talk about the – anything shifting in terms of the regional dynamic.
And I know you mentioned the Australia opportunity that comes beyond the pipeline portfolio but anything that's kind of shifting it in the portfolio and then the pipeline and if there is any kind of trajectory the outlook beyond this year for international radio? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
I mean the international business process as you know has been very very strong and we ended...
Yeah.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> ...
the year in Q4 very strong.
The orders were extraordinary.
I'm very glad to see the revenue was up for the full year was at the high-end of what we're guiding to nearly 10%.
So we feel very good about where we ended the year.
The pipeline is still pretty robust at about $2.4 billion last quarter it's $2.5 billion.
I wouldn't read a lot into that.
It was around a little bit time-to-time but it's still very solid at $2.4 billion.
The shape of the pipeline looks pretty much like it has over the last couple of quarters more than half of it is in the Middle East Northern Africa Central Asia and that does seem still to be pretty robust though we do see in the Middle East in two specific countries some stretch out of some opportunities which we believe over time are very big for the company one is in Iraq and the other is in Saudi Arabia.
In Iraq certainly the price of oil that's with WTI shifting just a little bit below $45 a barrel that's causing some impact on direct commercial sales.
We do know that Iraq sales for us back stopped by U.S.
government foreign military funding but there were some new commanders in Iraq and that's taking a bit slower for some of those sales into Iraq to take place.
So Iraq is slipping a little bit.
And in Saudi oil is causing a little bit of a problem there.
There's a new leadership team in Saudi Arabia and certainly the strife in Yemen is causing some shifting around of priorities.
Those are the two things that shifted a little bit further to the right.
We do see multi-year opportunities in the hundreds of millions of dollars in both Iraq and Saudi Arabia.
So we feel good about those.
Australia is very strong for us.
I mentioned in my remarks a $750 million Phase 3 opportunity that's outside of our pipeline but it's real.
We were participating in that and that's going to end up happening.
So longer term we do see good opportunities in international.
If you recall at the beginning of fiscal 2015 we started international tactical with relatively modest guidance of up low-single digits and we ended up at about 10%.
And I hope going into fiscal 2016 we're being similarly conservative.
Okay.
That's great color.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet Seth.
Welcome by the way.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from Pete Skibitski from Drexel Hamilton.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Pete.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Hey Bill I guess just on the prior target of $1 billion in free cash by year four can you update us? Are you sticking with that? And what year should we think of as year four at this point? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Year four will probably go out from four years when I first made the comment so I wouldn't want to accelerate that from here but I still feel confident on $1 billion of free cash flow.
When I look at just where we happen to be guiding this year at more than 100% of adjusted GAAP net income excluding amortization – the after-tax amortization when you run the math on that it's sort of in the $750 million range with a lot of moving parts and we're just getting started.
You add on top of that run rate savings some improvements of working capital some more tightening down on capital spending and other things and I do see that over the next three years four years we could definitely get to $1 billion of free cash.
So no I'm not backing off that target.
Okay.
And then just on capital deployment it looks like you're turning off the repurchase program at least for this year.
Is that right? And then maybe what's the right level of debt pay-down to factor in this year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah that's as we signaled before our number one priority outside of funding our own internal requirements which of course is embedded in free cash flow and making sure that we continue to pay an attractive dividend.
Beyond that our number one priority is debt pay-down and that's what we're going to do and it's important for us to de-lever.
We still have the targets out there going from 2.9 times net leverage to 1.5 times over the next three years and that's our number one priority.
So for the course of fiscal 2016 in our current guidance we've assumed no share buyback.
Okay got it.
And then just last one maybe more for Mick but the deal amortization of $133 million is that the same level in 2017 and 2018 or does that run off pretty quickly? And can you help us with how it loads across the quarters for 2016? Yeah sure.
Of the $1.6 billion about $1.4 billion is in customer relations the rest is in technology trademarks brands and so forth.
But there is a little bit which is for the Exelis brand and that gets amortized over two years.
So we expect to have $133 million for the next two years and then it's $125 million or a little bit less in the others.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Josh Sullivan from Sterne CRT (32:05).
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning Josh.
Good morning.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> What kind of impact does a quarter point raise in interest rates have on the pension obligation? Yes.
So the sensitivity for quarter point is – and there's convexity here right? So 25 basis points up is a decrease of $171 million and 25 basis points down is an increase of $208 million on our liability.
On the income 25 basis points it's about $8 million.
That answer your question? Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
That's helpful thank you.
And then just on the healthcare divestiture how much was it losing a year? And then did you receive any compensation for the transaction? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We did.
And you'll see in the tables that we are presenting and you'll see in our K that we received about $43 million net cash in in the fourth quarter for the sale of healthcare.
The transaction was about $50 million there's some that's sitting in escrow.
The cash in was about $43 million.
It gave us a pre-tax gain in the quarter about $8 million.
So when you look at a year-over-year basis it's worth about $12 million delta between fiscal 2015 and 2016 in terms of the healthcare impact.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
Thank you.
And we do have a follow-up from Pete Skibitski from Drexel Hamilton.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
I'll hop back in.
Hey guys on the segment guidance – the updated segment guidance do you contemplate issuing an 8-K intra-quarter with the pro formas or was there some other plan there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We've got a lot of work to do here on just restating the historicals and I would say that I'm looking to Mick but I think we'll be able to provide outlook guidance in the segment historicals restated certainly in our Q1 release.
We can't commit today that it'll be any sooner than that but it will be at the latest at our Q1 release.
You're absolutely right Bill.
We're working to finish the K and we look forward to re-segmenting providing the information to you as soon as possible.
Okay got it.
And then on the $37 million – I think it was $37 million – restructuring at INS in the fourth quarter is that a go-forward cost take-out for IT Services and CapRock? Is that what's going on there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah there is a piece of it about $19 million that's as Mick had mentioned is the write-down of an intangible associated with the NMCI contract that went away over the course of fiscal 2015 and that's about half of it.
The balance is restructuring at CapRock.
Okay okay.
And then lastly just – Bill some of the other big opportunities the SOCOM STC and I think the Air Force had a big program and there was SANR anything looking like it's in the 12 months pipeline in terms of a potential award there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Nothing in the 12-month pipeline.
STC we have a baffle win and the award is expected in September.
If they move on in the path they say they're going to move on and that's on the two-channel handheld.
There is a bigger program that's going forward in the Manpack and in HF radio that you will see RFPs on later than September but that's the current trajectory on STC.
And then SANR and SALT they're going to make some decisions on these programs over the coming months we believe.
And it really depends upon what happens in the fiscal 2016 budget.
But we currently are shipping our STT radios for what is considered as SALT the small airborne link 16 terminal program and we're already shipping our STT product in concert with ViaSat.
And on SANR it's hard to say what's going to go that is a WNW SRW two-channel radio for a bunch of military rotary aircraft programs.
But I think they wouldn't expect any production awards on that until something like GFY2019.
So it's pretty far out there in the future and it's not in our horizon.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
Thank you.
And we do have a follow-up from Gautam Khanna from Cowen and Company.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
LLC</span></strong> Bill can you comment a little about how you're going to preserve profitability at the RF tactical business unit given you have some LPTA type bids coming up? So if you were to win Manpack for example presumably pricing will be under some pressure.
And I just wondered if you could talk about some of the levers you have be it R&amp;D year-to-year what are your expectations and other factors? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well first of all I think the team has done a really outstanding job not just in the last three years or over the last decade in taking cost out of the product and I've given some examples on prior calls on what the team has done on 117G to take costs out every year post its launch.
And I would see that we'll be able to do the same thing as these new products start to come into the portfolio and mature.
At the end of the day we've got probably the largest Tactical radio facility in the world.
It's going to become even more utilized as we bring in the Tactical radio business from Fort Wayne.
It's both the international and the DoD business running in the same facility it's 0.5 million square feet of world-class manufacturing huge supply chain leverage.
And on top of that we're spending give or take $100 million a year on Tactical radio innovations which I do believe will continue to put features into our products over time which will allow us to continue to drive what we hope to be premium price versus our competitors.
I think all of those things will allow us to maintain our margins in tactical and that's what we certainly expect at Harris.
LLC</span></strong> And can you help size the MNVR opportunity what it's been running at and where you think it's going to go on an annual run rate basis? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
It's been in the – about $10 million or $15 million over the last year or two.
I think we booked between $15 million to $20 million worth of orders or thereabouts.
We expect in fiscal 2016 Gautam about $20 million worth of revenue and it will ramp a little bit beyond that probably up maybe two times or three times beyond into fiscal 2017.
Again it depends on what happens as to when they issue the full rate production award how they want to field it because that's changing a little bit in some of the BCT (38:40) changes that are happening in the Army.
As that settles down we do know that 2017 is going to ramp from 2016 and we think 2016 is around $20 million of revenue more or less.
LLC</span></strong> Okay.
And one last one if you could just also help size HMS Manpack should you win it I just wondered you do sell some 117Gs now and if you could just talk about cannibalization if there is any if you were to prevail on Manpack.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah it is – first of all (39:10) sorry to interrupt you.
On Manpack it's not going to affect our revenue until our fiscal 2018 that's what we're thinking at the moment.
Based on the schedule as we see it if you look at just between Rifleman and the Manpack the PBR is about $0.5 billion per year for that HMS program.
And over a decade that's a $5 billion between Rifleman and Manpack and that's our best guess on a decade-wide opportunity.
Obviously our revenues can depend our share of both Rifleman and the Manpack but it will affect our fiscal 2018 revenue on the Manpack probably fiscal 2017 for the Rifleman.
In terms of cannibalization we've given a lot of thinking to this and we believe that it will be mostly incremental to our base business today.
Because it's being bought the modernization it being bought by different parts of the service than what are buying (40:06) the replacement Gs spares and other things.
So our sense is that it will be mostly incremental with not so much cannibalization Gautam.
LLC</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks a lot.
I appreciate it.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from Chris Quilty from Raymond James.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks gentlemen.
I haven't yet made it through the whole 689-page Manpack solicitation but can you comment on any puts and takes you see in the document relative to your design and competitiveness? And can you comment specifically on the proposal for the light version and how well you are positioned for that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I didn't get through 689 pages Chris either but we had a really really good tactical team that summarized it brilliantly in four pages or five pages.
And I think look nothing – not much has changed from the very good dialog and interaction we had with the Army during the draft RFP process.
It was a couple of industry days.
I mean as you know this has been percolating for quite some time.
There's been a lot of active dialog a lot of conversation on range power weight it was radio weight mission weight is MUOS in is it out.
There have been a lot of puts and takes.
At the end of the day the final RFP is in line with what we had expected.
What I think is very interesting is that what they are going to do is look for at the time of award you have to meet certain threshold requirements and one of which is a 16-pound machine weight they are going to give you some additional if you will leverage for MUOS and some antennas and other things.
Then they have a deferred threshold set of requirements that have to be met by June of 2017.
And then a series of objective requirements that will fold in over time based on how industry evolves to capture some of these opportunities again like around power weight et cetera.
So that's the way we see it shaking out.
This whole light Manpack opportunity is going to be kind of interesting and I don't know where it's ultimately going to go.
They are looking for a lower weight Manpack.
It maybe features some of the Manpack.
It could potentially Chris be something like a two-channel handheld that would go to SOCOM (42:31) maybe over time go into regular Army.
So we're unclear as to how that's going to evolve over time but that's essentially the way we see 689 pages in a nutshell.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
And with regard to the 13% to 15% decline in IT Services and CapRock can you break it out between the two businesses and comment specifically on where you see the CapRock the energy business trending relative to where you thought it would be six months ago? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Yeah on IT Services we see down about 15%.
We see CapRock as a whole down about 10%.
And in CapRock down about 10% we are seeing the energy business down about 20%.
Let me just give you a little color on this.
Back in Q2 and Q3 the orders were quite good we did expect the second half revenue in CapRock to turn down and it in fact did.
We came in spot-on what we thought we would be in terms of the CapRock revenue for the year.
We were down in Q4 about 13%.
Of course we're seeing now price of oil just below $45 there is a potential deal with – there is a RAND issue that could drop price of oil down even further.
We've calibrated going forward into – for CapRock energy in fiscal 2016 down about 20%.
We did see in the last quarter a lot of the oil – major oil service companies have done more restructuring.
Rig count is down globally around 36%.
We think we've calibrated for current events in CapRock being down about 20% next year.
But again we're watching very very carefully what is happening to the price of oil but more importantly the behavior of our major customers in response to the price of oil and we're simply reacting to what they're doing.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet Chris.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from Noah Poponak from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey good morning Noah.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Bill so I guess what are the prospects for eventually moving above the $120 million synergy run rate? It's obviously quite impressive that you were able to move it forward a full year in such a short period of time.
But I guess how much is this you had identified everything and have just been able to do it much faster versus finding new things or there being potential to find a lot more opportunity to go even higher than $120 million? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well first of all Noah our diligence was very very good.
And we're finding that most of the opportunities that we thought we would capture we have captured and not much has changed.
We knew right out of the gate the first thing we would attack would be the public company cost and we did that right out of the gate.
We knew there was an opportunity on the Tactical radio side between the two facilities that we had and we went at that very very quickly.
So most of the things that we had anticipated we were executing on.
As I said about 90% of the actions that we've contemplated going after $120 million are completed or in process so we feel pretty good about that.
But look as I said we're 70 days in and we're at the high end of the range we gave before.
As we go forward we continue to find new opportunities.
Will there be some things that work against us? Sure without a doubt.
But I do believe that we have a good opportunity to continue to drive it above $120 million.
Today our best guess for where we stand today is $120 million.
Okay.
And the cost to achieve synergy that I believe was previously outlined as $130 million to $150 million.
Has that moved? I'm not 100% sure that I'm squaring that up with slide 10.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Let me give you some color on that because first off the $120 million on the savings as Mick had mentioned we reimbursed the government directly in the year immediately on the $120 million.
On the cost to achieve it was $130 million to $150 million that was net of expected government reimbursement and that was going to happen over a two-year to three-year time period.
We had $112 million worth of integration and project cost hit us in fiscal 2015.
We have another $60 million to $65 million hits in fiscal 2016.
You put them together it's about $175 million.
We do expect about $25 million reimbursement by the government some time in fiscal 2017 or beyond and that's what gets us to the $150 million.
I see.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just to follow up on that CapRock question down 20% is not insignificant but you mentioned what rig count has done and it's more.
And you mentioned what the actual fuel price has done and it's more.
What is it about CapRock that would make it outperform the broader industry? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well it's really the mix of the rigs.
When we say rig count down 36% that's land that's near offshore it's deep offshore ultra-deep and we are – because of the assets the value of deep offshore rigs are so great for the oil companies they tend to stay in production longer.
We're more disposed to offshore and deep offshore that's where the revenue happens to be.
So even though rig count is coming down like on land quite a bit more than 36% not a lot of revenue for CapRock going into the land side a lot more on the offshore and deep offshore.
I see.
And then any color or comment you could provide on what potential you see in the legacy Exelis business base margin beyond this year? Should we think of that as pretty flattish over time? Or is there opportunity for that to change? Or does it have headwinds going forward? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well it's coming down slightly in fiscal 2016 from 2015 and that's partly due to the revenue coming down a little bit we're guiding to down 5% to 6%.
When you go back to the old segments of Exelis we do see the Electronic Systems and the night vision comms business both being down in fiscal 2016 about a mid-single digits.
The IS business information systems will be down about 10% with the largest piece of that seven points or eight points roughly that's from the loss of a contract this range support contract that was lost in October of last year.
We do see the aero business up mid-teens that's growing pretty nicely with content with Boeing with Airbus with the F-35 ramp they're on (49:22) the 53K with Sikorsky.
They've got some good programs there.
So when I look at all of the pieces and how they are moving around and what's growing the aero business does have lower margin so when that grows faster than the others it does depress the overall margin rate a little bit.
But I do see that there is some softening in the margins for night vision comms and I do see some softening in the Electronic Systems business as they transitioned from what were production programs to some more development programs and that's sort of a natural transition.
So they were down.
I think we're at about 12.5% pro forma last year if I remember right and we're guiding to be slightly less than that in fiscal 2016.
Okay.
Okay thanks very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
Operator I think we have one more person in the queue.
Thank you.
And our last question comes from Pete Skibitski from Drexel Hamilton.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
I just wondered if you guys had a funded backlog at year-end for Exelis.
And then Bill Exelis has had some top-line headwinds for a long time.
And the question of when the trough would come is I guess still out there.
Do you have a sense for when all these programs trough for Exelis? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well maybe – somebody is grabbing the funded backlog I think it ended around $2.5 billion $2.45 billion $2.5 billion just under $2.5 billion...
Yes right.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> ...
on funded backlog.
But look I think there's a lot of programs here Pete on – in Exelis there's a lot of moving parts.
I think we've tried to take a look across all of them and make our best assessment to where the revenue is on if you will a pro forma Exelis business into fiscal 2016 and again we see that down about 5% or 6%.
I provided a little bit of color by each of the segments.
And I don't think I will go out any further than 2016 as I wouldn't do for the core business either for Harris but that's basically where we stand on the revenue outlook for Exelis.
I think – do you have the backlog here Mick handy? I have the year-to-year total backlog was down 15% the funded was down 17%.
The orders were weak in the quarter and of course it's hard to gauge how much of that weakness is due to the disruption.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
Thank you very much everyone for joining us and let me know how I can help.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good afternoon today's call is being recorded.
Beginning today's meeting is Pamela Padgett Vice-President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our third quarter fiscal 2010 conference call.
I am Pamela Padgett Vice-President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
And on the call today with me is Howard Lance Chairman President and CEO Gary McArthur Senior Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started the few words on the forward-looking statements.
In the course of this teleconference management may make forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements involve assumptions risks and uncertainties; they could cause actual results to differ materially from those statements.
For more information on the discussion of such assumptions risks and uncertainties please see the press release and filings made by Harris with the SEC.
In addition on our press release and on this teleconference we will discuss certain financial measures and information that are non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation with the comparable GAAP measures have included in the tables of our press release and on the Investor Relations section of our website which is www.harris.com.
A replay of this call will also be available on in the Investor Relations section on our website.
And with that Howard I'll turn it over to you.
Thank you Pam.
And welcome everyone to our third quarter fiscal 2010 earnings call.
We had another excellent quarter of financial results.
And perhaps even more importantly we set ourselves up for continued growth in the fiscal fourth quarter and in fiscal 2011.
Our gross strategies are clearly working.
We are gaining market share in our core markets while also moving the company into important adjacent markets to capitalize on growth opportunities.
Our mission critical assured communications capabilities are in strong demand across a broad range of market applications.
Revenue in the third quarter was $1.33 billions 10% higher than 1.21 billion in the prior year.
Non-GAAP income excluding acquisition related cost was $170 million or $1.30 per diluted share.
An increase of 27% compared with the prior year $136 million or $1.02 per shear.
Our bottom line continued to be driven by excellent program performance and award fees across the Government Communications segment.
And strong gross margins and operational efficiencies in the RF Communications segment.
New orders for the company were very strong again this quarter at $1.45 billions offering excellent forward momentum.
They were significantly higher than orders of $1.03 billion in the prior year and higher than third quarter revenue.
Third quarter revenue for the RF Communications segment was $551 million compared with $439 million in the prior year.
Tactical radio communications business revenue for the quarter was $429 million about flat with the prior year while the public safety and professional communications business revenue contributed $122 million in the quarter.
Non-GAAP segment income was $208 million in the third quarter.
That's excluding charges related to the Tyco Electronics Wireless Systems acquisition.
And it is compared to $151 million in the prior year.
Segment operating margin was exceptionally strong again this quarter at 38%.
We are continuing to benefit from favorable tactical radio product mix and significant operating leverage provided by cost reduction actions.
New orders for the RF segment were $656 million in the quarter.
Net included 488 million and tactical radio communications systems and $168 million for public safety and professional communications system.
Both businesses had book-to-bill ratios of significantly greater than one.
Tactical radio communications order backlog at the end of the third quarter increased to $1 billion.
Given our strong Q3 orders and our good Q4 momentum we now expect to enter fiscal 2011 above with the tactical radio order backlog above $1 billion.
Much higher than our previous expectation of $800 million.
Several factors continue to drive new orders.
Customer demand for our next generation Falcon III radio is accelerating.
And not just in the U.S.
market adoption in the International market is beginning as evidenced by the significant order from Australia in the quarter.
Overall International market demand has strengthened with some very large opportunities getting underway.
And we continue to be the primary tactical radio supplier for the MRAP-ATV program by equipping the military's initial 6 644 vehicle purchases.
Vehicle that will be used across all of the services.
The importance of the M-ATV program to Harris is two-fold.
Naturally it is a significant revenue opportunity.
But it also offers a platform to showcase the advanced capabilities of our next generation Falcon III radios.
This grass roots effort fields the new radios across a broad spectrum of users and encourages further adoption.
A strategy that continues to be very successful for us.
Demand for the JTRS approved Falcon III family of radios has resulted in year-to-date Falcon III orders through the third quarter now totaling $620 million.
Our Falcon III 117G wide band networking radio is enabling war fighters with unprecedented situational awareness.
By providing streaming video simultaneous voice and data feeds collaborative chat and secure network connectivity.
Reports from the field confirm to us that the 117G is changing the way war fighters are conducting their missions.
Falcon III orders during the third quarter included $73 million for the 117G Multiband manpack from the Marine Corp.
for use in Afghanistan.
$12 million from the Marine Corps.
to upgrade existing 152C Multiband handheld systems from 20 to 50 watts to allow communications over a longer distances and rough terrain.
$74 million for 152C Multiband handheld radios in vehicular adapters to equip the MRAP-ATVs.
And then following the close of the quarter we received a $20 million order for Falcon III 117G Multiband manpack radios from a DoD customer.
Other significant U.S.
orders in the quarter included $78 million for Falcon II HF radios to equip MRAP-ATVs and then following the close of the quarter Harris received a $101 million order for Falcon II 117F Multiband vehicle radios for the next phase of the MRAP-ATV purchases and to retrofit other existing MRAP vehicles.
This is important because it represents the first order that Harris has received to equip the 4 000 additional vehicles approved by joint requirements oversight council JROC earlier this year.
International tactical communications orders in the third quarter included $112 million from the Australian Department of Defense as part of their communications modernization program.
The order was predominantly Falcon III 152C Multiband handheld radios.
The potential opportunity is $300 million to $500 million over five years.
We believe this is important milestone and we fully expect to see other allied nations standardize on the Harris Falcon III family going forward.
We also received a $44 million International order from a customer in Asia.
And a $10 million order from the Iraq ministry of interior for Falcon II HF radio systems.
Additional significant International orders are still expected this fiscal year from several customers.
We believe in the future of our global tactical radio business to maintain its market leadership and our ability to continue to expand into adjacent markets.
Our strategy is simple.
Listen to our customers and utilize our commercial business model to quickly solve their evolving mission requirements.
We are constantly innovating and advancing our technology.
Years ahead of competition and the programs of record.
As an example let's take a look at the emerging ISR mission needs in Afghanistan.
UAVs are proliferating overhead gathering valuable real time video on possible targets and missions.
Although ISR and ground tactical communications have always been viewed as separate missions accomplished with separate radios our customers asked if it was possible to integrate the capabilities into a single solution.
Our engineers seized the opportunity.
In only a few months we responded with a design that integrated the UAVs Rover wave form into the Falcon III 117G wide band networking radio.
Video can now be received and then retransmitted over the 117G wide band network without the soldier carrying another device.
The Rover wave form was not of course contemplated in the JTRS program of record specification.
But it is already inside the Harris radio.
And our engineering team is busy developing even more extensive ISR solutions as we speak.
In our public safety and professional communications business revenue in the third quarter was $122 million and that was about flat compared to the prior year on a pro-forma basis.
The pipeline of large projects in both the public safety and professional communications markets remains robust.
It is driven by requirements for improved interoperability and upgrades from analog to digital networks.
And we scored some major wins in the quarter which will help drive our future growth.
On the flip side the weak U.S.
economy is having an impact on state and local budgets and is constraining some of our sales of products into existing businesses.
New orders in the quarter were $168 million much higher than revenue.
We ended the quarter with a very strong backlog of $489 million and we are still on track to meet the guidance we established for this fiscal year.
Major wins in the quarter included $100 million to upgrade the Miami-Dade County public communications infrastructure to a P25 digital radio system.
This project also includes new P25 radios providing interoperability across more than 80 different agencies with over 32 000 users.
A $13 million order was received in the quarter for our OpenSky system to connect employees at a Texas based public utility serving 50 counties.
The system features over the air programming to provide remote reconfiguration and software updates.
This win is an excellent example of our ability to provide assured communications to the enterprise market.
And then following the close of the quarter Harris received an order from the New York State police for 1100 Unity XG-100P Multiband radios.
The new Harris Unity radios will provide interoperability between the state police and local metro and county law enforcement officers allowing them to communicate with radio systems that are about conventional and digital and that operate on various VHF UHF 700 or 800 megahertz bands all in one radio.
During the quarter we acquired the technology assets of OSI Geospatial situational awareness business.
With this acquisition Harris gains advanced software for capturing viewing and disseminating critical tactical information.
The software provides commanders and team members alike in the field with real time information including the location of personnel.
The applications are capable of being embedded in both our tactical and our public safety radios as well as in other electronic devices and laptop computers.
Revenue in the government communications system segment was $666 million in the third quarter compared with $649 million in the prior year.
Revenue in the prior year benefited from the field data collection automation or [FIDCO] program for the U.S.
census bureau which is nearing completion.
Year-to-date revenue excluding the FIDCO program and adjusting for the impact of acquisitions is 7% above the prior year.
We believe this is excellent growth and highlights that our business is continued to be very well positioned in the market.
Revenue growth benefited from the ramp up of the GOES-R weather satellite program for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
We've recently announced the opening of a new Harris office in Greenbelt Maryland to support the GOES-R program.
The modernization of enterprise terminals or met program for the army also contributed to the revenue growth in the quarter.
We successfully completed the critical implementation review or CIR milestone for the program and we did these just nine months after program award.
With resigned baseline for the ground terminals now established the program can move on into its next phase.
Other contributors to revenue growth in the quarter included the IT services program where we are supporting the U.S.
southern command headquarters relocation.
Several classified programs financial and intelligence customers and acquisitions related to our growth initiatives and cyber integrated solutions and healthcare solutions.
Operating income in the third quarter for the government communications system segment increased to $90 million compared with $74 million in the prior year.
Operating margin was higher at 13.6% and reflected continued excellent program performance as well as favorable timing on award fees.
Harris was awarded a significant contract related to our healthcare solutions business in the quarter.
A three year potential $72 million contract from the Department of Veterans Affairs to improve the complex billing and collection activities across the nationwide VA organization.
After completing a very successful pilot program this contract was rewarded to cover the remainder of the nationwide network.
As you know the VA manages one of the world's largest healthcare delivery organizations.
Also during the quarter Harris was awarded a $25 million contract to provide our new high-band networking radios for the U.S.
Army.
They will carry critical battle command information and form the communications back bone of the integrated air and missile defense battle command system or IBCS.
These radios provide the first ever use of directive beam technology.
To achieve higher through put over a longer distances within a self-forming self-healing mesh network.
Revenue in the quarter at broadcast communications was $123 million or 7% lower than $132 million in the prior year quarter but a little better sequentially than our second quarter.
The segment posted an operating loss of $5 million.
Revenue continues to be impacted by lower U.S.
broadcaster capital spending.
Gross margins were about flat with the prior year quarter on much lower revenue indicating the positive contribution of cost reduction activities that have been implemented.
The third quarter operating loss included restructuring charges in the quarter are about $1 million with $3 million in charges year-to-date.
Additional actions are expected to result in restructuring cost for the full fiscal year of about $10 million.
Operating expenses were slightly higher than the prior year in the third quarter.
As we continue to redeploy resources into new media and International markets where we believe there are significant new business opportunities.
Orders in the quarter were $130 million much higher than the prior year quarter.
And orders exceeded revenue.
Order momentum in the second and third quarters suggests that the market is at the bottom and showing at least some signs of improvement.
So major orders in the quarter included $12 million from Cox broadcasting for our integrated application suite for traffic billing order processing sales management reporting and sales proposal generation.
$4 million from Abu Dhabi Media Company for a high-definition production and play out center and $4 million in Rwanda for a turnkey DVB-T transmission solution in support of the country's transition from analog to digital broadcasting.
We continue to experience strong interest in the company's new media growth initiatives and these are now finally beginning to contribute to segment revenue.
This includes 'Live' event venue broadcast networks such as the new Amway Center in Orlando Florida.
These systems leverage our combined broadcast and IT services offerings to provide solutions which enhance the fan experience.
We are in active negotiations with the number of other venues also looking to upgrade their broadcast capabilities.
Another new media initiative is FAME our full motion video asset management engine which allows our government customers to capture store retrieve analyze and distribute video intelligence information.
Earlier this month we demonstrated enhanced FAME capabilities at the National Association Broadcasters exhibition.
This topic was also the focus of my keynote speech during the military and government summit in NAB where I discussed the benefits of using crossover commercial technologies to solve this difficult government ISR challenges.
Harris also made important announcements NAB related to our 3D and mobile TV solutions.
We introduced the industries most comprehensive end-to-end 3D workflows allowing contact creators and broadcasters to build a complete solution from the camera all the way to the monitor.
The Harris solution assures broadcasters updating their infrastructure to HD that their investments will also support 3D.
Harris joined with the open mobile video coalition to announce the start of mobile TV field trials in Washington D.C.
next month.
Harris solutions will be used by Fox Television Canadian Broadcasting.
Ion Media Networks.
PBS and MHz networks and Univision.
Let me now ask Harris CFO Gary McArthur to comment on some of the financial results in the quarter.
Thank you Howard.
Good afternoon everyone.
Q3 was a very strong balance sheet quarter for Harris.
We ended the quarter with $406 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand.
Return on invested capital was 21%.
Return on equity 25% and debt to total capital was 36% down from its recent high of 41% following the May 2009 Tyco wireless acquisition.
Further our entire $750 million revolving credit facility is available to us with no long-term debt maturities coming due until October 2015.
Cash flow from operations increased $99 million to $314 million versus $215 million in the third quarter of the prior year.
Primarily as a result of strong performance at our RF communications and government communications system segments.
In light of this we are increasing our expectation for cash flow from operations for fiscal year 2010 to arrange of $700 million to $725 million up from our previous guidance of $650 million to $700 million.
Depreciation and amortization for the third quarter was $40 million as compared to $44 million for the third quarter of 2009.
Our expectation for depreciation amortization for fiscal year 2010 continues to be in the range of $160 million to $170 million.
Capital expenditures were $94 million for the third quarter as compared to $30 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2009 and included the acquisition of new 573 000 square foot manufacturing facility near Rochester New York where four existing RF communications manufacturing sites will be consolidated.
And the purchase of a new facility in the mid Atlantic region for use by our government communications system business our guidance for fiscal year 2010 for CapEx is now $200 million to $210 million up from our previous guidance of between $150 million and $160 million.
During the quarter we used $50 million to repurchase 1.1 million shares of our outstanding stock at an average price of $44.63 per share.
Our non-GAAP effective tax rate for the third quarter was 32.6% and assuming the investment research and development credit is enacted by congress in our fourth quarter our outlook for the full year tax rate for fiscal 2010 is now 33.3%.
Our initial outlook for the 2011 full year tax rate is 34%.
However the tax rate for any given quarter could vary up or down as result of discrete tax events.
Other areas of guidance for fiscal 2011 are as follows.
Cash flow from operations a range of $675 million to $725 million.
Depreciation and amortization from $100 million to $180 million and capital expenditures including capitalized software a range of $200 million to $210 million.
Our current priorities for cash that is expected to be generated remain the same.
One fund internal investments to drive growth and generate higher earnings.
Two acquire companies that meet our strategic objectives and enhance financial returns three pay appropriate dividends or targeting a payout ratio of 20%.
And four repurchase shares.
In summary we expect to finish fiscal 2010 on a very strong financial foundation with expectations for another solid year in fiscal 2011.
Back to you Howard.
Thanks Gary.
Before we open the line up for your questions let me provide some additional perspective on the revisions and increases we have made to our earnings outlook for fiscal 2010.
And a little color around our initial earnings guidance for fiscal 2011.
First for 2010 we have once again increased our full-year non-GAAP earnings guidance to a new range of $4.35 to $4.45 per share.
It represents a $0.10 per share increase compared to the previous range of $4.25 to $4.35 per share.
Revenue in fiscal 2010 is still expected to be $5.2 billion to $5.3 billion.
In the RF communications segment fiscal 2010 revenue is now expected to be in the range of 18% to 19% higher than fiscal 2009.
Now this includes the contribution of course the acquired public safety and professional communications business coming in at about $500 million.
Segment operating margin for the year.
For the RF communications segment is now projected to be higher in the range of 34% 35% as compared to our previous guidance of 33%.
The higher operating margin continues to be driven by more favorable tactical radio product mix cost reductions and improving operational efficiencies.
The acquired public safety and professional communications business is performing that as expected this year.
For government communications systems we expect revenue for fiscal 2010 to be about flat with the prior year on a reported basis.
Now after you adjust it for the impact of acquisitions and excluding the ending of the FIDCO program the guidance reflects with a very strong organic growth for the year of about 8%.
And operating margins are still expected to be about 12.5% for fiscal 2010.
In Broadcast Communications for fiscal 2010 we reduced expected revenue to a new range of $480 million to $490 million.
We expect an operating loss of about $20 million the year including $10 billion of that related to restructuring charges.
The reduction in segment income since our previous guidance is based on the lower sales volume somewhat higher investments in International and New Media markets and higher restructuring charges associated with additional cost reduction actions.
So that's fiscal 2010.
Let me move on now to fiscal 2011.
Of course we are very pleased to initiate earnings guidance in a range of $4.55 to $4.65 per share 3% to 6% above our fiscal 2010 guidance mid point.
Revenue in fiscal 2011 is expected to be $5.5 to $5.6 billions.
About 5% to 7% higher than fiscal 2010 guidance.
Talk a little bit about the segments.
For the RF Communications segment fiscal 2011 revenue is expected to be 6% to 8% higher than fiscal 2010.
This includes the public safety and professional communications business in fiscal '11 at $540 million to $550 million about 8% to 10% higher in fiscal 2010.
Segment operating margin for 2011 is expected to be in a range of 32% to 33%.
It is about 200 basis points lower than fiscal 2010.
As the impact of more typical tactical radio product mix is partially offset by higher public safety and professional communications business margins.
We will continue to actively invest in R&amp;D programs.
To further enhance the capabilities of our current products and to introduce additional new products into adjacent markets.
Moving to the government communications system segment.
We expect revenue for fiscal 2011 to be 5% to 7% higher than fiscal 2010.
Operating margin is expected to be 11.5%.
That is about 100 basis points lower than fiscal 2010.
This is due to the impact of lower pricing on the follow on contracts for the Navy/Marine Corps Intranet program and the FTI program still very strong margins.
For the Broadcast Communications segment we are projecting modest revenue growth in fiscal 2011 in the range of $490 million to $510 million with breakeven operating results.
Additionally for fiscal 2011 we expect net interest expense to be about flat with this year while unallocated corporate expense will be lower than this year in a range of $76 million to $78 million.
At this time I will ask the operator to now open the line and we'll be pleased to field your questions.
(Operator Instructions).
We'll take our first question from Gautam Khanna with Cowen &amp; Company.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
I just wanted to ask about the MRAP-ATV programs and could you give us a sense for how much you booked year-to-date on that program last quarter? I think its 554 M-ATV.
And then also what the opportunities that might be on the 4 000 vehicles which you have got an order already? Right so for what we call Phase I which is the first 6 644 vehicles year-to-date orders totaled 719 million.
And we are in the same place we were last call with regard to opportunities in the Phase II which we have said at the time were up to about $300 million.
And we still think that's a reasonable range as you indicated we did receive the first order $101 million and we have potential we think of maybe up to another 200 on top of that.
what to do in terms of buying 117G or what have you for deploying troops and get the modernization.
Do you guys have a view on where that is going to shake out and do you know when we will actually have definitive guidelines on what's going to happen? Thanks.
We remain very confident that the capabilities of the 117G will lead to its broad deployment across multiple different applications in the army as well as the other services where we have seen great success.
In terms of any specific timing I don't have anything to share with you.
But we are making significant process as the radios are field dated and as I talked about in my prepared statement as customers are able to see the real value in their day-to-day mission accomplishments from the radio.
That is more value than any amount of advertising or demos that we could perform.
So the troops on the ground are the greatest advocates.
And we are very confident we will continue to see a success.
And the accelerating orders in the Falcon III not only from U.S.
but as we have indicated now starting it with the International customers.
Raymond James &amp; Associates Hi guys.
Question for you on the broadcast business I know you have gotten some government military orders in there.
Have they gotten to the point where they are starting to be a significant portion of what you are seeing in broadcast and could they be a driver here over the next 6 to 12 month? Well on the latter part of your question Chris we certainly hope so.
To date I think specifically around the FAME program it represents about $11 million of revenue.
So on year-to-date basis that's may be 2% 3%.
I think the opportunity pipeline certainly could have that growing to the 5% and maybe a year or two out maybe as much as 10% of revenue.
So we think it is a significant driver.
Not just with the products we are offering now the solution but we are continuing to enhance that with additional products.
And broadly across Harris we see it in capabilities that we have certainly in our tactical radios we also see it in systems integrated opportunities to support the customers in the government system segment.
It is a truly [Pan-Harris] opportunity that we are pursuing.
Does that 5% to 10% estimate in the out year assume International customer base? No I think we primarily would think about that in terms serving the needs of the U.S.
as they continue to deal with this very very large and growing amount of video surveillance content and how they actually utilize it to make real time decisions and create value out of that intelligence that is being gathered.
We'll take our next question from Larry Harris with C.L.
King.
Thank you.
You have been quite and first off congratulations on the results here for the quarter.
And you have been quite forthcoming in terms of 2011 guidance here at this early date.
But I was wondering is there any comments you can make even at this point in terms of seasonality within 2011 based upon what you are seeing in the order of pipeline? A little hard to say Larry.
You know that we are going to be starting the year with a very large backlog.
And still have DoD priority shipment requirements for the MRAP vehicles.
So certainly that is going to be a factor.
But we also have a lot of other opportunities in the pipeline.
So I just don't have tremendous visibility would like to wait until probably the next quarter.
Once it is done we have a real good view then to backlog.
And orders expected in the first half were probably to provide a little more color.
But I think we will come out of the gate pretty strong in the first quarter as a result of that very strong starting backlog.
And with International sales would they be higher say here in 2011 than 2010? Absolutely.
As we have discussed orders International orders this year we expect to be much higher than revenue because we had to defer the shipment of many International customer orders because of the requirements to ship the MRAP vehicle radios this year.
So we do expect to see a significant growth in International.
I don't know exactly what the split next year will be.
A year or so ago we were kind of 60/40 DoD and International that skewed a little bit this year because of which I certainly would expect as directionally to go back more toward where we were in the past.
We'll go next to Joe Nadol JPMorgan Thanks good afternoon.
Thanks for the detailed guidance for next year.
Some of the question on the RF mix next year if we're I guess we are saying we are going to be closer to 50/50 International and into the 40s.
If you look at the U.S.
piece and you know 800 million or 900 million and your guidance for tactical can you just breakout what is in there roughly for MRAP and 117G and other? Give us some sort of sense as to how you are thinking about it? Not in specific certainly Joe a portion of that will be the Phase II MRAP vehicles the orders we received.
Some of Phase I won't ship until our next fiscal year.
And then the upside opportunity from MRAP so MRAP will be an element of that.
Certainly continued adoption and acceleration of the 117G is going to be an important part as well.
And then International market we think make up the rest of that guidance.
DoD is expected to be lower in revenue than this year but more than compensated by the International growth and all in all we think the tactical radio communication business will be up year-over-year as we have indicated in the preliminary guidance.
As we moved to the next quarter and get through the first quarter I am sure we will have more granularity around the make up of the business as you start to see other orders get announced.
We'll go next to Jim Mcilree with Merriman Thank you good evening.
Over $1 billion in backlog that you think you will exit this year in RF can you give us some feel of what you think that split between International and domestic will be? I am not sure I have that at my finger tips Jim.
So I don't really want to quote something that turns out to be wrong.
I think its I am going to suggest it is probably more than 50% is International because we have held some of the orders this year but I might not be right on that because quantity of DoD orders is still very large.
Okay.
And secondly public safety margins fiscal '11 versus fiscal '10 directionally up sideways up significantly.
Yes.
Higher.
And so it is helping to mitigate some of the reduction and tactical radio margins that we are providing in this initial guidance as a result of expectations of more typical product and program mix.
So the tactical radio margins mitigate a little bit although they are still very good.
And then we get the benefit of some improvements in the public safety margins.
When we bought that company herein I talked in terms of our goal of about 500 basis points of improvement over a three to four year period.
And so we are I think at this point we would say very much on track to achieve that and have kind of baked that into the initial guidance for next year.
I think that wraps it up.
I thank everyone for joining us and hope that you are going to be able to join us for our Analyst Meeting in Rochester.
That's going to be our venue for this year.
And thank you for joining us today.
That does conclude today's call.
We thank you for your participation.