Good morning.
My name is Angie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Hershey Company First Quarter 2011 Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Pogharian.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Angie.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to those of you on the line and on the webcast to The Hershey Company's First Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Dave West President and CEO; and Bert Alfonso Senior Vice President and CFO will provide prepared remarks.
And then both of them along with J.P.
Bilbrey COO and myself will answer any questions you may have during the Q&amp;A session.
Let me remind everyone that today's conference call may contain statements which are forward-looking.
These statements are based on current expectations which are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements because of factors such as those listed in this morning's press release and in our 10-K for 2010 filed with the SEC.
If you have not seen the press release a copy is posted on our corporate website www.thehersheycompany.com in the Investor Relations section.
Included in the press release is a consolidated balance sheet and a summary of consolidated statements of income prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Within the Notes section of the press release we have provided adjusted pro forma reconciliations of select income statement line items quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.
As we've said within the Notes the company uses these non-GAAP measures as key metrics for evaluating performance internally.
These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP.
Rather the company believes the presentation of earnings excluding certain items provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations.
We will discuss our first quarter 2011 results excluding net pretax charges that are related to the Project Next Century program.
In the first quarter of 2011 these pretax charges were $9.7 million.
Our discussion of any future projections will also exclude the impact of these net charges.
Lastly there are broader peers [ph] reporting this morning and out to respect to them as well as to the analysts and investors who want to participate in those calls we ask that you limit yourself to 1 question.
With that out of the way let me now turn the call over to Dave West.
Thanks Mark.
Good morning everyone.
Hershey's first quarter results were strong and I'm pleased with our performance.
The investments we've made in our business over the last 2 years continue paying dividends as core brands continue to perform well in the marketplace.
Our advertising continues to resonate with consumers and we are getting solid lift from our in-store selling merchandising and programming.
Our marketplace performance and strong start to the year give us confidence that we'll deliver on our 2011 financial objectives.
I'd like to start by spending a moment on the pricing action announced on March 30.
As you're all are aware commodities market prices have been volatile and we expect that volatility to continue in the coming months and quarters.
Prices for many of the primary and secondary commodities we use in our products have increased year-over-year and since our last conference call.
While we can hedge our future needs on most of our primary inputs there are numerous secondary inputs where there is not a developed futures market.
Given category dynamics related to the pricing flow-through and the view of our future cost profile a price increase was necessary to protect our margins.
This action was effective immediately on March 30.
However during the 4-week period ending April 22 existing customers were allowed based on historic order patterns to order up to 8 weeks of inventory at the previous price if delivery occurs by May 20.
As expected some of our retail customers have ordered product under this scenario.
Prior to the increase as Q1 progressed we saw a shift in order patterns by some customers who chose to carry slightly greater levels of inventory in the first quarter.
Given broad-based upward inflationary pressure in many food and packaged goods categories we suspect they were carrying additional inventory in anticipation of a potential price increase.
We estimate that about 1.5 points of net sales growth in the first quarter was attributable to volume which normally would have shipped in the second quarter.
Given the relative sizes of Q1 and Q2 that will likely result in about 1.5% less revenue in Q2 as inventories normalize.
Also recall that we do not expect seasonal net price realization until Easter 2012.
Additionally the majority of nonseasonal merchandising will be offered at previous promoted prices through much of the third quarter of 2011.
We therefore expect a higher Q2 trade promotion rate which will further dampen revenue.
Consumers are starting to see higher everyday prices primarily on instant consumables and on in-aisle nonmerchandised take-home items.
As such we expect an initial price elasticity impact to result in lower volumes over the remainder of the year and into 2012.
Therefore we do not expect this action to materially impact our financial results this year.
While it's a bit early to measure consumer reaction in response to the pricing action we feel that our brand support innovation consumer spending and investment and go-to-market capabilities will enable us to deliver on our full year net sales objectives which remains around the top of our long-term 3% to 5% range.
Overall the confectionery category continues to perform well as recent gains have been within the category's historical growth rate.
Investments in the category in the form of advertising and innovation are present for most major manufacturers.
Given the high household penetration and the impulsive nature of the category as well as affordable price points we believe retailers and consumers will continue to value the confectionery category.
As a result we would expect the category to consistently secure key merchandising and programming space even as price points may rise.
We're satisfied with our performance and customer relationships in all channels measured and nonmeasured.
In fact at 1 of our largest customers we recently secured the advisorship for category captaincy for the entire front end.
This includes not only candy mint and gum but all general merchandise.
In the first quarter Hershey's net sales increased 11.1%.
Bert will provide you with additional details but the growth was primarily driven by volume.
Core brands on both in everyday and seasonal basis grew in line with our expectations.
New product performance and pipeline fill was solid and contributed nearly 3 points to growth.
We also benefited from a longer Easter season.
Recall in 2011 Easter occurred on April 24 and in 2010 on April 4.
Therefore the timing of Easter obviously has and will impact IRI and Nielsen data related to the March and April periods.
Preliminary analysis of Easter data indicates that we had a good season and that Hershey's sell-through will be solid.
Our results were driven by Easter specific advertising including both the Reester and Cadbury Clucking Bunnies as well as our sponsorship of the blockbuster Easter-themed movie Hop.
Easter timing aside Hershey's marketplace performance was solid.
CMG that's candy mint and gum retail takeaways for the 12 weeks ending March 19 for our custom-based database in channels that account for over 80% of our retail business.
So as a reminder the channels here are food drug mass including Walmart and convenience stores we increased 3.7% a very respectable growth rate despite the impact of Easter timing.
Excluding Easter seasonal activity in both the current and year-ago period a better yet still imperfect measure our retail takeaway was up 6.7%.
Perhaps the easiest way to assess performance given seasonal timing and therefore all the noise in the data is by looking at absolute market share results.
We gained market share both with and without the Easter seasonal activity.
All-in including the seasonal activity Hershey's CMG market share in FDMxC increased 0.5 points for the 12 weeks ended March 19.
I'm also pleased with the overall category performance in the first quarter.
For the 12 weeks ended March 19 FDMxC category growth excluding seasonal activity in both the current and year-ago period was up 5% greater than historical category growth rate of 3% to 4%.
First quarter food class-of-trade CMG growth again excluding seasonal activity in both the current and year-ago periods was up 4.7%.
Hershey's food class-of-trade retail takeaway in the first quarter was up 2.5% resulting in a market share decline in the food class-of-trade of 0.6 points.
Although down our performance in food sequentially improved as we exited the quarter as we rolled out Hershey's Drops and Reese's Minis.
Also note that Hershey's Syrup performed solidly in food class-of-trade in response to our new advertising.
However the success of this brand is not included in CMG results.
In this Easter class-of-trade where the Easter impacts are minimal the CMG category was up 4.9%.
Total Easter performance for Hershey was particularly strong with takeaway up 10.2% resulting in a share gain of 1.4 points.
These gains were driven by core brand advertising in-store selling merchandising and programming including our successful promotional tie-in with the NCAA March Madness basketball tournament.
This Easter class-of-trade also benefited from the king-sized pack-type launch of Hershey's Drops and Reese's Minis.
In the drug class-of-trade our performance sequentially improved from Q4 to Q1.
While some of it was due to easier year-over-year comps we do feel that it validates the Insights Driven Performance or IDP work that we started.
Drug class-of-trade CMG category growth excluding seasonal activity in both the current and year-ago periods was within historical growth rate for the category.
Hershey Q1 drug class-of-trade retail takeaway again excluding the seasonal activity in both periods was up 14.3% resulting in a market share gain of 1.3 points.
As we look to the remainder of the year we have many exciting products promotions programs and merchandising in place across all channels including a sponsorship to the upcoming Green Lantern movie a Twizzler summer landmark program where families win a trip to the American landmark of their choice and the June launch of Hershey's Air Delight in both in instant consumable bar and Hershey's Kisses format.
We're also on track to increase full year advertising expense for the total company mid-single-digits on a percentage basis versus last year supporting new product launches and core brands in both the U.S.
and international markets.
Advertising was up about 30% in Q1 supporting the launch of Hershey's Drops and Reese's Minis new advertising campaigns on Hershey's Syrup and PayDay and a longer Easter selling season.
We expect advertising to increase mid-single-digits in Q2 and Q3 and then decline in Q4 as we lap the step-up investment that occurred in many markets in last year's fourth quarter.
During 2011 in the U.S.
we'll leverage our core competencies and the infrastructure investments we've made in the business over the last couple of years.
We would therefore expect a year-over-year percentage increase related to other SM&amp;A expenses to be at a rate lower than sales growth.
However in a few key emerging markets such as China this investment will be up double-digits on a percentage basis in 2011 as we add selling capabilities in points of distribution and increase the level of sampling and brand support to drive brand awareness and trial in these markets.
We'll also continue to advance our IDP work in the U.S.
I'm pleased with the way the confectionery category in Hershey's continue to perform.
As we look to the remainder of the year recall that we do not expect seasonal net price realization until Easter of 2012.
Additionally previously agreed-upon merchandise price points are essentially in place on nonseasonal items well into the third quarter.
However consumers are seeing higher everyday prices on nonmerchandised items.
Therefore we do expect this portion of our business to experience a volume decline over the remainder of the year.
In the coming months and quarters we'll monitor consumer behavior and purchasing patterns and will work with our retail customers to ensure that the implementation of the price increase is supported with customer trade promotion and merchandising that continues to grow the category.
While the category has remained resilient the health of the U.S.
consumer remains fragile.
There are many external factors that CPG manufacturers can't control that can impact consumer purchasing power psyche and sentiment.
While we believe pricing and volume elasticity now is a core competency of The Hershey Company we can't predict future events that may occur and impact our elasticity assumptions.
However we are confident in our merchandising programming new products and the quality of our advertising.
Commodity markets remain volatile.
However we have visibility into our cost structure.
While we anticipate meaningfully higher input costs in 2011 productivity and cost-savings initiatives are in place.
And at this time we estimate that full year 2011 adjusted gross margin will be about the same as last year.
We'll leverage the investments in our brands and go-to-market capabilities that we made over the past few years.
As a result we expect full year 2011 net sales growth including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates and adjusted earnings per share diluted growth to be around the top of the company's long-term 3% to 5% and 6% to 8% objectives.
I'll now turn it over to Bert Alfonso who will provide some additional details on our financial results.
Thank you Dave and good morning everyone.
First quarter business results were solid with consolidated net sales of $1.56 billion up 11.1% versus the prior year generating adjusted earnings per share diluted of $0.72 up 12.5%.
The earnings per share increase was driven by higher net sales manufacturing efficiencies and SM&amp;A leverage partially offset by year-over-year increases in commodity costs and advertising spending.
First quarter sales gains were driven primarily by volume.
Several factors contributed to the volume gains which includes strong sales of core brands driven by our continued investments; successful distribution and launch of new products including pipeline fill which contributed about 3 points of growth; a seasonal shift in volume from the fourth quarter of 2010 and to the first quarter of 2011; a longer Easter season enabling us to build on our #1 seasonal share position; and a shipment order patterns by some customers who chose to carry slightly greater levels of inventory that we estimate was about 1.5 point benefit in the quarter.
We would expect this Q1 benefit to reverse in Q2.
And finally foreign currency exchange rates were less than 1 point benefit in the quarter.
Turning now to margins.
In the first quarter adjusted gross margin increased 20 basis points driven by supply chain efficiencies partly related to fixed cost absorption as volume was greater than year-ago levels and higher levels of productivity both normal and incremental as we discussed at CAGNY.
These margin gains are partially offset by significantly higher input costs of about $33 million.
Commodity market spot prices have been volatile and we expect that volatility to continue in the coming months.
We now estimate that our year-over-year commodity cost increase will be greater than our initial forecast.
Nevertheless as previously stated we have visibility into our cost structure and despite these increases we expect 2011 adjusted gross margin to be about the same as last year.
Our adjusted gross margin improvement was the primary contributor to growth and adjusted EBIT of 13% or 30 basis points.
And as we communicated last quarter SM&amp;A excluding advertising is expected to grow at a rate less than sales in 2011.
SM&amp;A x advertising decreased 120 basis points versus last in Q1 offsetting a portion of these gains were higher advertising are about 30% higher play-related costs and higher legal and other administrative expenses.
As we have mentioned we estimate 2011 advertising expense will increase mid-single-digits on a percentage basis versus last year.
Over the remainder of the year we expect advertising to increase mid-single-digits in Q2 and Q3 and then decline in Q4 as we lap the step-up investment that occurred in late 2010.
Now let me provide an update on our international businesses.
On a reported and constant currency basis our international net sales increased double-digits on a percentage basis versus last year.
Growth was especially strong in targeted markets such as Mexico China and Brazil.
We're very excited about our businesses outside of the U.S.
and Canada and are on pace to achieve over $1 billion net sales in our international markets by 2015.
We continue to make the planned investments and necessary investments in these growth markets during the first quarter of this year.
Moving down to P&amp;L.
For the quarter interest expense increased coming in at $24.5 million versus $23.7 million last year.
In 2011 we expect interest expense to be approximately $95 million to $100 million for the full year.
The tax rate for the first quarter was 36.5% slightly higher than last year due to the timing of certain tax events.
Excluding tax rate impacts associated with business realignment and impairment charges we continue to expect the full year tax rate to be about 35%.
Over the remainder of 2011 the tax rate Q2 will be about the same as Q1 and about 34% in the second half of the year.
In the first quarter of 2011 weighted average shares outstanding on a diluted basis were 230.2 million versus approximately 229.6 million shares in 2010 leading to adjusted EPS diluted of $0.72.
Now turning to the balance sheet and cash flow.
At the end of the first quarter net trading capital decreased versus last year's first quarter by $11 million.
Accounts receivable was up $22 million and remains extremely current.
The year-over-year increase is a direct result of Easter timing.
Inventory increased $54 million due to finished goods increases in anticipation of customer buy-ins resulting from the March 30 price increase the build of inventory related to our upcoming launch of Hershey's Air Delight and preparation for the gradual move of production into our expanded West Hershey manufacturing facility as part of Next Century.
And lastly accounts payable increased to $87 million.
In terms of other specific cash flow items total company capital additions including software were $82 million in Q1.
These amounts included Project Next Century capital expenditures of $24 million.
In 2011 we expect ongoing CapEx to be within our previously communicated guidance of $150 million to $160 million excluding Project Next Century.
Capital additions are expected to be an additional $180 million to $190 million for Project Next Century making our total 2011 CapEx estimate $330 million to $350 million.
Note that the total CapEx for Project Next Century remains within our initially communicated range of $250 million to $300 million.
Depreciation and amortization was $51 million in the first quarter.
This includes accelerated depreciation related to Project Next Century of about $6.5 million.
Adjusted operating depreciation and amortization was $45 million in the quarter.
In 2011 we are forecasting total operating depreciation and amortization of about $165 -- $185 million for the full year.
Dividends paid during the quarter were $77 million.
The company repurchased $100 million of outstanding shares remaining on the $250 million repurchase authorization that was approved in December of 2006.
Additionally we repurchased 93 million of our common shares to replace shares issued in connection with exercised stock options.
All $193 million of acquired shares were repurchased in the open market.
As noted in this morning's press release the Board of Directors approved a new $250 million authorization to repurchase shares of common stock.
The repurchases may take place from time-to-time depending on market conditions.
This authorization is in addition to the company's policy of repurchasing shares in the open market related to issues in connection with stock option exercises.
As we look to the future our financial position allows us to be flexible in our approach in creating value for all shareholders.
Cash on hand at the end of the first quarter was $752 million down $132 million versus year end.
As it relates to our short-term cash needs the company is currently well positioned to manage capital needs of the business as well as higher capital expenditure requirements due to Project Next Century.
Our cash flow continues to be strong and will improve as we grow earnings.
Let me now provide an update on the Project Next Century program.
I am pleased to confirm that the West Hershey plant expansion remains on track.
We expect the new facility to be on the roof by the end of the second quarter of 2011 with the first major equipment deliveries scheduled for third quarter of 2011.
We anticipate initial production to start up during the fourth quarter and continue implementation during 2012.
During the first quarter pretax GAAP charges related to the program totaled $10 million with the majority related to accelerated depreciation.
These charges reduced Q1 earnings per share diluted by $0.02.
The forecast for total project pretax GAAP charges and nonrecurring project implementation costs remains at $140 million to $170 million.
By 2014 we continue to expect ongoing annual savings to be $60 million to $80 million.
Please see the Appendix 1 in today's press release for a detailed summary of Project Next Century by year and by line item.
Now to summarize.
In 2011 our goal is to maintain our current marketplace momentum.
To do this we'll continue to invest in our brands and businesses in both the U.S.
and international markets.
We'll focus our efforts on advertising which we expect will be up mid-single digits in 2011 as well as consumer insights and brand-building initiatives that should enable the category and Hershey to grow this year and into 2012.
Because of the U.S.
price increase we expect volumes to decline over the remainder of the year.
In the upcoming months and quarters we will partner with our retail customers to ensure that the implementation of the price increase is supported with appropriate levels of trade promotion and merchandising.
Despite this decline in volume we still expect full year 2011 net sales including the impact of foreign currency exchange to be around the top of the company's long-term 3% to 5% objective.
Commodity markets remain volatile.
However we have visibility into our cost structure in 2011.
And while we anticipate meaningfully higher input cost this year productivity and cost-saving initiatives are in place and we expect full year adjusted gross margins to be about the same as last year.
During 2011 we will leverage our infrastructure investments made over the last few years and expect year-over-year percentage increase related to SM&amp;A expense excluding advertising to be at a rate lower than sales growth.
As a result we expect full year 2011 earnings per share diluted growth to be around the top of the company's long-term 6% to 8% objective.
Before we go to Q&amp;A and as you work your models note there are many moving parts over the remainder of the year that we discussed this morning.
Specifically prior to the March 30 pricing announcement we saw a shift in order patterns by some customers who chose to carry slightly higher levels of inventory in Q1.
This Q1 benefit to net sales is about 1.5 points and will negatively affect Q2.
Due to pricing elasticity beginning in Q2 we expect a higher trade promotion rate to reduce revenue.
Per our policy existing customers can take receipt of up to 8 weeks of inventory of previous price points if delivery occurs by May 20.
Due to the aforementioned nuances we would expect volume in Q2 to be lower a year ago pressuring adjusted gross and EBIT margins.
While commodity costs remain volatile and will be meaningfully higher in 2011 versus 2010 we expect adjusted gross margins to be about the same as last year.
Advertising which was up 30% in Q1 will be up mid-single-digits in Q2 and Q3 but lower in Q4 with a roughly 85% higher advertising investment in the fourth quarter of 2010 versus 2009.
And finally our Q2 tax rate will be about the same as Q1 and about 34% in the second half of the year while our full year outlook remains at about 35%.
With that out of the way let's open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
I guess my question has to do with the quarter's results to the extent that you had such stronger top line certainly well above what we were thinking and it sounds like it was above even what you were thinking but there really wasn't that much leverage to the gross margin side of things or even the EBIT margin.
I guess the advertising explains the EBIT side of it.
But how do we think about the first quarter performance and the lack of leverage to the gross margin and kind of how that affects the quarterly flow for the rest of this year? Thanks Eric.
With respect to the first quarter revenue net sales up about 11% we were expecting very high single-digits ourselves.
So we're only a few points really above where we would've expected to be.
And as I think with both Bert and I have said some that is inventory that kind of shifted into the first quarter from the second quarter.
So we're fairly much in line with what we expected to see and the growth is basically volume-oriented and it's roughly 1/3 seasonal 1/3 core and 1/3 new items.
So pretty broad-based across the board.
We did have materially higher commodity costs in the first quarter that's going to be the case throughout the rest of the year.
And so the adjusted gross margin picture of about flat is -- plus or minus flat is consistent with what we've been saying.
So we did not expect to see a whole lot of leverage through the P&amp;L.
And the advertising spending as you noted was higher.
I think as you go forward as Bert just pointed out some of the nuances in modeling you'll see advertising spending more moderate in the second and third quarters up in the mid-single-digits and then a decline in the fourth.
And we would expect to see that cost and gross margin picture kind of maintained.
So I think what you see here in the first quarter a strong first quarter start although really not that unexpected to us.
But then as you look at the rest of the year given as you'll start to see elasticity kind of moderate and flow into the business a little bit here that the model is pretty consistent with what we've been telling you all the way along.
And I think we're very pleased with the momentum in the business 6.7% takeaway FDMxCW for the first quarter which is an acceleration coming out of the fourth.
I think that's the most important thing for us is it's broad-based and we're very pleased with it.
Okay I'll pass it on.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Just wanted to ask about the situation in the convenience store parts of trade.
Your performance this quarter was obviously very strong.
If I remember rightly the last time that gas prices spiked up to these kind of levels spending on nongas items at the C-store was crowded out by those high gas prices.
Is this happening again? And if it's not happening this time do you have any views as to why it's not happening this time? Yes I think the real tell in quarter and/or period -- or not the quarter but the period will be the summer drive season when you tend to see a lot more driving miles and folks out on the road on vacation.
If you'll recall we're basically almost 3 consecutive years now of share gains.
We have Drops and Minis in the king-size format the Hershey's Drops and Reese's Minis launched which I think will help us create news and continue to merchandise.
Overall traffic still feels reasonably good to us.
Our business in the category is up.
I mean we had a great 10-plus percent tax takeaway.
But I think if you think about certainly where we are from a confectionery standpoint the last time you saw this spike we had much better merchandising and selling capability in the convenience stores.
I think we've got better innovation than we did then in terms of -- we were actually pulling back on innovation when that happened.
So we look at the Reese's Minis and the Hershey's Drops as well as our merchandising capability we think it'll carry us through that period.
So we obviously are watching it the same way everybody else is though the consumer -- really the consumer period will tell us a lot more is in the summer.
Inc.</strong> Great.
Thank you very much.
I'll pass it on.
Your next question comes from the line of Terry Bivens with JPMorgan.
Dave just in terms of your allocation of capital clearly you've got a bigger share repurchase here.
But if you look at the numbers it doesn't get you all that much accretion.
So I'm just kind of wondering obviously 1 of the big issues on Hershey is what you're going to do with that balance sheet firepower.
Could you just give us an indication of how you're thinking about that right now? Yes.
Our thought process Terry hasn't really changed it's pretty consistent.
We've always talked about 1 of our larger cash needs this year is Project Next Century and the investment that we're making in the new facility here in Hershey Pennsylvania.
So that cash as well as the inventory build and the capital associated with that is something that is very short-term that we're dealing with.
We did increase the dividend in January.
We repurchased $100 million on the old 2006 authorization in the quarter and have paid almost another $100 million with respect to the options replenishments.
We do have a bond note that comes due later on in the year that we'll be dealing with as well with respect to the capital structure.
And then we've always talked about share buybacks as a lever in our capital structure dialogue as a way of returning cash to shareholders.
We did some of that obviously here in the first quarter if you will reload it to do that going forward.
So I don't think we've really changed what we've been saying.
And M&amp;A certainly bolt-on kind of acquisitions which we think makes sense for us as we grow our global footprint still remains a high priority.
So it's all about balance and flexibility and I think we certainly in the first quarter between the dividend increase and the buybacks have demonstrated that.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Couple of questions on the input costs.
I think you called out that your input costs are coming in higher than you initially anticipated.
So first is there any way to quantify how much higher you're looking at your input cost increases this year? And then how much it really hit first quarter just in terms of the phasing of the input costs on your P&amp;L? And then thirdly just 1 of the key inputs peanut costs seem to be soaring here.
So if you can give us any color in terms of what you're looking at as far as the pricing outlook on peanuts is concerned and then how your supply situation is on that commodity? Sure.
In terms of commodity costs -- and you're right we mentioned that they're a little bit higher than we anticipated when we would have been on the fourth quarter call.
In the first quarter -- I mentioned higher commodities was about $33 million.
And in terms of the impact we had pretty good productivity against those and because it was a high-volume quarter we also had an absorption benefit which as Dave mentioned we're a little bit higher on volume in the quarter.
Most of it really the 1.5 points that we talked about on slightly higher inventories but we expected high volume.
And so there was a pretty big offset I would say from the volume and the productivity programs against those commodity cost increases.
Going forward we'll see a little bit more impact I think as volume comes off a bit even a little bit as it relates to the price increase.
And commodities have continued to rise a little bit more.
Dairy in particular is one that we've seen increases in the first quarter.
So while we don't provide a specific number in terms of guidance around the total increase I would tell you that commodities were up in the first quarter pretty much a lot of it muted by the higher volumes and the productivity program and then it will be a little bit less so going forward to some degree because of the lower elasticity on volume that we're anticipating after the price increase.
Your question on peanuts.
You're right peanuts are very high.
For us I think that's more of a future issue versus a current year issue.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Just had a question for you in relation to the price realization that you're going to start to see I guess really kind of in the third quarter I guess I just wanted to get a better sense if we could as to like is it percentage of customers that bought forward? Or I guess I started modeling some pricing kind of midway through the third quarter.
Is that a realistic assumption the way you see it today especially on the instant consumable-type products? You get no seasonal price realization at all.
So if you think about the second half of the year the size of the Halloween and the holiday seasonal business and even into Valentine's of early next year you don't get price realization on that portion of our portfolio until Easter of next year.
You will see the shelf price on instant consumables has moved up fairly quickly.
It usually does move fairly quickly.
And you'll start to see elasticity effects on the stuff that's moving at regular price on the shelf on the instant consumable part of the business already.
And then really on promoted everyday promoted business for the most part as you work through with the customers we've already programmed out through let's call it September.
So roughly that timeframe.
And so we'll honor the previous promoted prices and the programming at the previous promoted prices for the most part.
So really I think you're thinking about it correctly that you would start to see some realization maybe a little bit on the instant consumable part of the business right away but not really until you get out into that September October timeframe.
So it really is a -- the second quarter is largely a volume-driven quarter as well here.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> So you have to get past -- I guess there would be some price realization in certain weeks or periods where you do not promote.
But other than that it's really Q4 then when that really starts to come through in instant consumables correct? Well you'll start to see some of it now.
But for the most part because of the way the category works with the seasonal business and the way we plan it out because of the merchandising intensity of the category it takes us a while to get the price increase through.
And that's why we continue to say it's really a 2012 event for us in terms of the realization of this.
The bit of realization that we get in 2011 really offsets some of those kind of secondary inputs that we can't hedge forward on where we're seeing some price inflation on those certainly in the last 3 to 6 months.
And so those 2 things kind of offset each other.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
Thank you.
Question comes from the line of Andrew Lazar with Barclays Capital.
Just a quick clarification if I may.
I think you said earlier that you'd expect volume to be down year-over-year for the remainder of the year.
Was that just on the piece of the business that you just spoke of like instant consumable piece of it? But overall your seasonal business obviously doesn't get impacted by the pricing until next year.
So I assume on that piece which is a very large piece do you still expect reasonably strong volume through the year? Maybe a little help on clarifying that.
Yes I think if you look at the first quarter -- let me make sure of that to be clear.
The first quarter volume increases was up double-digits so we won't expect to see double-digit volume the rest of the year.
You will -- the seasonal business in the back half of the year is again doesn't really get affected.
So you're right we would expect to see year-over-year volume growth in the seasonal part of the business and then you'll start to see everyday instant consumables tail off in terms of volumes fairly quickly because that's already been priced.
And then you don't see the rest of the everyday part of the portfolio really start to get impacted until you get out into the latter part of the year September on.
So overall you're right there's a blending of volume across those pieces of the portfolio.
Okay.
And your elasticity assumptions like relative to '08 I guess is there any reason to think they'll be meaningfully different in one way or another? Or just based on I don't know different consumer environment or anything else you're seeing or generally you think about it the same way? Actually they may wind up -- we actually do it by brand by pack by class-of-trade on some level in terms of the way we think about elasticity.
So they will be -- if they're actually the same as '08 it'll just be dumb luck.
There's so many things that are different versus the last time we did this.
Our brand strength is much greater than it was if you think about the advertising that we put in the business since then.
I think our retail sales force is much more effective at selling and merchandising so that's a strength.
I think the chances are that as you take this kind of new increase you might cross a decile [ph] here or there that you didn't the last time is another factor that's put in there.
I think the biggest factor for us is just consumer sentiment and the fact that the inflationary environment is broad-based across a number of categories.
And so I do think that -- I think you'll see -- I think that's why it's going to be much more important to think about and watch carefully what's happening in other categories and the size of the basket and especially fuel as a part of it as well.
I mean we talk about core inflation but the average consumer out there for our product in the mainstream part of the portfolio is feeling food and fuel pretty significantly and we'll watch it carefully.
But I think it will be different.
And remember the last time we did the price increase it was a fall price increase this is a spring price increase.
So the seasonal impacts are a little different too.
Great.
Now that's very helpful.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Just a follow-up on the phasing to really make sure I understand this correctly.
In the second quarter you're going to expect revenues to decline because you'll have some of the seasonal impact on volumes plus there's trade promotions.
Gross margins will also I guess decline year-on-year because you won't have as much -- because of the increased trade promotions.
So I guess if I'm hearing that correctly earnings could actually be down year-on-year in the second quarter but then up in the fourth quarter more because you're going to spend less on advertising.
Is that at least directionally the right way to think about it kind of shifting from 2Q to 4Q? I think if you think about Q2 1 of the big factors obviously is as you see a little bit more trade promotion in Q2 as we spend on a rate basis as we spend back to honor some of the previously agreed-to promotional price points.
You'll also remember we had 1.5 point of volume that kind of came out in Q2 and wound up in Q1.
So Q2 will be somewhat pressured.
But also remember Q2 is largely instant consumable quarter and therefore it's a reasonably good quarter for us and we have decent momentum.
But Q2 will bear some pressure here because of those factors.
And then when you get out in Q4 obviously we had a huge move in our investment in the fourth quarter last year.
And so I think you're right when you get down into the SM&amp;A you get a lot more leverage in the fourth quarter coming up.
But I think you're thinking about the parts right in terms of what's moving around.
I think we had a good Q2 a year ago.
I think we were up a little bit over 5% on a net sales basis so there's some moving parts off of that.
And remember we have Drops and Minis and some other things that are in the numbers.
But overall I think you got it right.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of David Palmer with UBS.
I just wanted to talk a little bit about consumption because you had a plus 7 or so number there multichannel takeaway.
It looks like your base trends are fantastic.
So I mean there's a lot of noise here around the volume and the pricing.
But from a consumption standpoint from an innovation standpoint it really does look like the bed is made for strong takeaway trends all year.
How are you thinking about that? Are you really in effect trying to play conservative as you think about repeat levels see how these products play out all year as you think about gas prices and the C-store channel? How are you thinking about ongoing consumptions? Thanks.
Yes a good question.
I think 1 of the things you do have to remember is the second half of the year seasonally it's got a Halloween and holiday in it and we wouldn't expect to ship -- our takeaway in the first quarter FDMxCW 6.7%.
We wouldn't expect to ship 6% to 7% more holiday and Halloween into the retail customers in the back half of the year.
So there's a natural moderation because of the seasonal component of the business in the back half.
That said we're very pleased with the programming the strength of the business.
We were up 6.2% takeaway all-in in those FDMxCW [ph] channels in the fourth quarter that accelerated to 6.7%.
It's broad-based it's base brand it's new product.
Some of it international.
So we feel good about the business.
That said it's a difficult environment for the consumer.
It's a very inflationary environment.
And we haven't sold case one really at a new price point yet.
So I think we need to be prudent about how we think about the year.
And with that seasonal mix coming in there'll be a natural moderation to that top line trend.
Okay thank you very much.
Thank you.
Comes from the line of Ken Zaslow with BMO Capital Markets.
The last question has obviously been asked about the pricing.
So instead of that the new product innovation can you talk about your successes right now? What are you seeing in the new products the Drops? Also you obviously increased your advertising behind PayDay you didn't say anything about that.
Just can you take it to some of the new products and what you're seeing in terms of success and if you're getting a payback on some of your advertising spend besides Hershey's Syrup? I'll let J.P.
Bilbrey take that one.
Yes we feel good about the progress that we're making on both Drops and Minis.
And 1 of the measures that we look at is as we take some of our previous introductions -- and I'll use Pieces as an example we're able to get these 2 launches into distribution faster so the distribution build has been faster.
And then the other thing that we're very pleased about is the takeaway and the repeat is also meeting and exceeding our expectations.
So we feel like we're off to a really good start on both of those.
Let me just follow-up on your PayDay question as well.
As you look at the increased advertising it was in Q1.
Part of the reflection of that is some things that we added in terms of additional brands that would have been in the previous quarter.
PayDay was certainly 1 of those.
And so PayDay Almond Joy Mounds all of those brands are responding very nicely to the advertising that we've added.
And then we also feel good about the upcoming Air Delight introduction that we have in June.
Retailers have responded very positively to that.
We feel good about the programming that's in place.
And that's also a new format for us as well as the category.
And so we're optimistic there as well.
And what white space does that kind of the new product the Air Delight actually fill for you guys that you're thinking that you don't have? Well there's really 2 places for it.
It'll be available in Kisses so it's an innovation on Kisses.
And if you remember in Kisses we've been working on really rebalancing and rationalizing our portfolio there.
We've been investing in advertising in Kisses and we really haven't had an innovation like that.
So Air Delight will be a new variant on Kisses that we're optimistic there.
And then in the instant consumable space with Air Delight it gives consumers another way to enjoy the Hershey brand in a total different taste and mouth texture profile.
So we think the positioning of that will be unique enough that we're again optimistic.
And you recall 1 of the things that we talked about is our discipline around innovation.
And so we feel very good about the time and consumer inside work that we're doing on these.
And so while we may have fewer innovations they are bigger and better and more sustainable than we've had in the past.
And that's certainly coming through with Minis and Drops.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Rob Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Thank you.
I wanted to ask about the IDP program.
It's been a huge success in drug up 14% in the quarter.
And I think what your plan is is to start marketing that strategy to food stores.
When do you start doing that? And when can we start seeing the benefits of that? Thanks.
Well you probably see most of the benefit for us more as we move to 2012 and 2013.
We've done some early work with several of our retail partners which is yielding some really good results.
Drug was certainly 1 of the places where we went and really changed the dialogue with our customers in drug around how we try to look more at a consumer-centric approach and really working with them on shopper insights.
And so the combination of really being able to take our consumer data their shopper insights has enabled us to have a different type of dialogue.
And I would describe that part of our relationship historically has been more transactional in nature and what's really changed now is it's more long-term collaborative business planning over several years.
So as we make substantial investments in their shoppers our consumers it just really enables us to look at the total story differently than the role of our category within the store.
It's really been a positive thing for us and the successes that we've had we need to roll out.
This also probably will be focused for us on call it a handful of customers as we go forward because part of it is you have to be able to have the commitment on the retailers side and the resources to go up against it.
But early indications are that this is a real step forward for our company.
John do you have kind of commitments from a handful of customers now to kind of start collecting the data? Yes we do.
We're well on our way in being able to integrate retailer data with our data.
And also working in some instances with syndicated data and third parties to build some unique systems that allow us to look at the business differently than we had before.
And this is really in the interest of the industry to be able to find ways to take this data and mine it in a much deeper way than we had before.
So at any rate it takes time it's a long-term commitment where we've been able to work with some of our most sophisticated retailers.
They're as excited about it as we are so I think this is a great opportunity.
We've talked a lot about being more brand- and consumer-centric and this is essentially central to us being able to deliver against that.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Maybe on last question on the pricing.
Could you talk a little bit to the extent that you are aware the competitive activity? Or has your large competitor matched your efforts or anything you're for the channel? I think our pricing model is specific to what we want to do on our portfolio.
The line pricing nature of the category I think that on some level is going to take place and has started to take place.
I think the retailers generally once they see it anyone in the category move they generally move up.
So I think you've seen the retailers start that initiative.
We feel good about what we've done for our business.
Remember our business has a larger seasonal component than probably anybody else has in the category as we're the share leader there.
So I think what we've done is specific to what we wanted to do for our business.
And I think overall across the category prices are kind of moving up but not everybody is doing the same thing.
But we're happy with what we've done.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Erin Lash with Morningstar.
I was hoping you could talk about -- well provide some additional details about the recent announcement that you're leveraging your relationship with Walmart over in the U.K.
And whether there are additional opportunities to expand that further globally? Yes we have some product in Asda that we launched in the Asda stores.
Walmart has a program a global brand program.
We've also been in several other markets or will be in several other markets with them in South America and in Asia.
I think it's not appropriate for me to comment on what Walmart's potential plans are in the future.
What I would tell you is as part of their global brand initiative it's very opportunistic for us to play with them as they go into markets and have strength in some new core markets for us.
We're very pleased with how it's gone.
I think what it really shows from our standpoint is how flexible we would like to be and can be.
It's very small to us.
It's not material but I think it's more important for us to demonstrate that our brands can play in a number of markets around the world and that we're flexible enough to make it work.
And we're happy with the relationship with Walmart.
Okay thank you very much.
That's helpful.
Your next question comes from the line of David Driscoll with Citi Investment and Research.
Just a couple of odds and ends that I was hoping to kind of plug into my model of which you guys have already said.
You talked a lot about the quarterly shift from 2Q '11 to 1Q '11.
But you didn't mention the fact that I believe there was a 4Q '10 shift into 1Q.
How much was that shift? And then pricing also in the quarter I think that was roughly 0.
Can you confirm that? To J.P.
on Reese's Minis is it too aggressive to think that this is going to be a $100 million product this year? And then final question ad spending is up 5% but there's been a ton of shifting in the medium mix model.
And so I'm thinking that GRPs are going to be up significantly more than that.
Can you just comment on that? Thank you.
You rattled us up David.
I'm not sure -- I hope somebody here in the room is writing it down.
Let me try.
Yes there was a little bit of -- if you remember a little bit of seasonal shift out of Q4 into Q1.
Order patterns were different and Easter was a little later.
So when we talked about seasonal volume being up roughly 1/3 of our volume growth that's embedded in that number already.
So a couple of points probably out of fourth quarter into first which is consistent with what we would've expected.
I'll answer for J.P.
He's not going to tell you how big he thinks the Reese's Minis business can be.
What he has already said is just how strong we're off to good start and how consumers are responding to it and it is exceeding our initial expectations.
And so I think -- and with respect to the advertising we probably had a little bit more advertising on air in the early part of the year than we might have initially anticipated.
And I think some of that was opportunistic around the new brand and they are responding.
We do expect to be more efficient with our advertising with respect to GRP delivery.
So while we're talking about this -- when we talk about the mid-single-digits we're talking about the spend dollar spend.
We would expect to be much more efficient and our focus here is to do a tremendous job over the last 2 or 3 years of really getting much higher weight in terms of GRP increases versus where we would expect on the dollar spend that we've gotten.
So you are correct in assuming that while we may be spending mid-single-digits on an overall dollar basis it is much higher from a GRP standpoint.
Actually helpful.
The only piece that I was also wanting to know was pricing in the quarter roughly 0? Was it roughly flat? Yes it's pretty much flat.
I mean we had a little bit higher trade promotion rate a small amount.
And that's largely a mix factor with the new products coming in and then with Easter later a much larger portion of seasonal sales in the quarter than the prior year that tends to be on a higher promotional rate.
So if you think about it trade promotion was a little higher on a rate-rate [ph] basis but it was mostly mix.
And did you mention any timing related to the $250 million authorization? No we did not.
Can you? No we typically don't.
We said that we'd be in the market from time-to-time and that's what we agreed with the board.
But we haven't put any definitive timeline on it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Thanks again for the follow-up.
Just a quick question in terms of what you're doing now to accommodate retailers in terms of helping them absorb this price increase.
I guess it sounds like you're allowing retailers to buy in a little bit more ahead of time.
You're also going to promote a little bit more to help ease the consumer into it.
I guess what I'm trying to get it is or try to understand is just are you doing more -- or what are you doing differently to help accommodate retailers to get this pricing through onto the shelf now maybe than what you're doing in 2008? Are you having to do things differently or accommodate more in order to get the price increase through? Actually I wouldn't say we're doing anything differently than we did in 2008.
And certainly we're not promoting more to be clear.
But what we are doing is honoring the promotions that we already had in place.
And therefore we'll probably spend a little bit more promotional dollars to make sure that we get to the price points that we had already agreed on with retailers.
I mean each retailer is unique so we have a different program with them all.
And so we would go back now and say "At higher-priced goods we want to run the same promotions." So it's not more promotional activity it's just keeping the promotional activity there which by the very nature of it will ease the consumer into it because they'll start to see everyday prices higher but they'll still also be able to ease their way in because they'll still be able to get promoted volumes at a price they're used to.
So I think we're not really doing anything really differently.
And then we offered an 8-week buy-in if you will.
That's pretty standard.
We've done that historically over the years.
And that's pretty consistent with our past practices.
So nothing new there in terms of what we were doing.
And I wanted to follow up on a question.
I think it might have been Rob Moskow might've asked it.
I don't know who asked it.
Or it might have been yours Bryan.
With respect to the second quarter we don't want to imply that second quarter volume is going to be down.
We're up against a 5% comp a year ago and we'll have a little bit more promotional activity and a little bit of elasticity on the instant consumable part of the business.
But I don't want anybody to be walking around thinking that the second quarter is going to be down.
That's not -- I mean we may have misspoken and implied that.
I just wanted to clean that up a little.
Okay that's helpful.
Thank you David.
Okay Bryan.
Thank you.
At this time there are no further questions.
Presenters do you have any closing remarks? Yes we thank you for joining us for today's conference call.
And Matt Miller and myself will be available for any follow-up questions that you may have.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Angie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Hershey Company's Second Quarter 2011 Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mark Pogharian.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Angie.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to The Hershey Company's Second Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
J.P.
Bilbrey President and CEO; Bert Alfonso Senior Vice President and CFO; and I will represent Hershey on this morning's call.
We welcome those of you listening via the webcast.
Let me remind everyone listening that today's conference call may contain statements which are forward-looking.
These statements are based on current expectations which are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements because of factors such as those listed in this morning's press release and in our 10-K for 2010 filed with the SEC.
If you have not seen the press release a copy is posted on our corporate website in the Investor Relations section.
Included in the press release is a consolidated balance sheet and summary of consolidated statements of income prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Within the Notes section of the press release we have provided adjusted pro forma reconciliations of select income statement line items quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.
As we've said within the Notes the company uses these non-GAAP measures as key metrics for evaluating performance internally.
These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP.
Rather the company believes the presentation of earnings that exclude certain items provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations.
We will discuss our second quarter results excluding net pretax charges.
The 2011 charges were associated with the Project Next Century program and the 2010 charges were associated with this program as well as the non-cash goodwill impairment charge.
In the second quarter of 2011 we recorded a net pretax credit of $1.8 million and in 2010 a pretext charge of $86.2 million.
Our discussion of any future projections will also exclude the impact of these net charges.
With that out of the way let me turn the call over to J.P.
Bilbrey.
Thanks Mark.
I want to thank all of you on the phone line and webcast for joining us today.
Before we discuss the details of our second quarter results I'd like to give a brief overview of why I believe The Hershey Company will continue to be successful into the future.
As the 11th CEO of the company I believe that there's never been a better time to be part of the Hershey team.
The decisions we made several years ago in the North American business to invest in the consumer our brand and organization capabilities has enabled us to provide our retail partners winning consumer and shopper insights.
This approach has provided us with the framework or roadmap for today's success.
Our business model and strategy is sound and I feel it's being executed by the best people in the industry.
I'm very pleased that we're working as a focused team and fully integrated business.
Across the entire company we have experienced leaders in place who have strong record of success.
Our International business continues to progress ahead of plan and I'm satisfied with the disciplined approach we're taking to relate it to the investments that we're making in our organization capabilities.
Our businesses in China Mexico and Brazil are on plan and we're making progress in India.
We like the growth outlook and prospects in these key markets which are an integral part of our international footprint.
Sales growth in these focus markets is solid and we're optimistic about the potential to accelerate our international presence behind our disciplined approach to organic investments acquisitions or joint ventures.
Our Insights Driven Performance initiative or IDP is delivering results in North America and will be fundamental to our knowledge-based approach.
This proprietary process is enabling us to engage with select retail partners to determine a solutions-based method to drive growth for the category and for Hershey.
The collaborative approach is unique within the confectionery space and differentiates Hershey from its peers.
We're creating a knowledge-based company based on deep insights.
Our intellectual capital brings us together with our retailers to deliver solutions they need to meet consumer demand.
We're building a global organization that were equipping with resources and tools to win in the marketplace.
The combined investments in our brands capabilities international market growth and people will ensure that we remain on track to deliver our financial commitments and build shareholder value.
As it relates to the second quarter I'm pleased with Hershey's strong operating and marketplace results despite the macroeconomic challenges that continue.
Net sales increased 7.5%.
Bert will give you the details but growth was primarily due to volume gains in both the U.S.
and the international markets.
New products were also a positive driven by the solid performance of Reeses Minis and Hershey's Drops.
Consumer demand resulted an accelerated distribution and merchandising in the quarter versus our original expectations.
In the U.S.
volume also benefited from earlier-than-expected shipments to customers due to a change in the timing of their promotional calendars.
This essentially offsets the shift in order patterns discussed last quarter.
Therefore Hershey's marketplace or takeaway performance was relatively in line with shipments or net sales.
However over the remainder of the year we expect the category to grow in line with the historical 3% to 4% average due to the unpredictability of seasonal sales.
Recall we're honoring previously agreed upon nonseasonal merchandising price points through much of the third quarter and we do not expect seasonal net price realization until Easter of 2012.
Therefore while we realize some net pricing in the second quarter we would expect it to temper over the remainder of the year.
Following the longer Easter season which was an opportunity for greater levels of in-store merchandising and program CMG candy mint and gum category growth has been relatively within the historical 3% to 4% category growth rate.
Specifically for the 8 weeks ended July 9 CMG category growth within food drug mass excluding Walmart and convenience stores or FDMxC increased 3.3%.
Over the remainder of the year U.S.
category and Hershey growth is driven by seasonality Halloween holiday back-to-school et cetera.
As a result in the second half of the year we would expect category growth and Hershey retail takeaway to be more representative of the historical averages.
In terms of marketplace performance the reported IRI in Nielsen's second quarter accounts for the 12-week period ended July 9 this does not encompass the entire Easter season in both the year-ago and current periods.
Therefore my remarks today will refer to year-to-date marketplace performance for the 28 weeks ended July 9 2011.
Hershey CMG retail takeaway for the 28 weeks ended July 9 for our custom database and channels that account for over 80% of our Retail business and as a reminder these channels include food drug mass including Walmart and convenience stores increased 8.1%.
Our year-to-date retail takeaway in FDMxC and here this would be excluding Walmart was up 7.9%.
We're obviously very pleased with this performance.
These results also benefited from a longer Easter season where Hershey is the seasonal market share leader.
Given our solid execution and sell-through Hershey gained one full share point this past Easter season.
We have now won Easter in increased market share for the third consecutive year.
I'm also pleased with the overall category performance.
For the year-to-date period ended July 9 CMG category growth within FDMxC increased 4.5% greater than the historical category growth rate of 3% to 4%.
As a result of our strong retail performance Hershey's CMG market share within FDMxC increased 0.9 points for year-to-date period ended July 9.
In the food class-of-trade CMG category growth again for the 28 weeks ended July 9 was up 4.1%.
Hershey year-to-date food class-of-trade retail takeaway was up 4.5% resulting in a market share gain of 0.1 points.
Our performance in these channels sequentially improved from the first quarter to the second quarter reflecting solid in-store merchandising and programming around core brands Easter and our new products.
In the C-store class-of-trade year-to-date CMG category growth was up 4.3%.
Hershey's C-store performance was particularly strong with takeaway up 10% resulting in a gain of 1.5 share points.
C-stores CMG category growth was driven by chocolate and non-chocolate candy which were up 7.5% and 6.9% respectively in the category.
Hershey's C-store chocolate and non-chocolate takeaway was up 10.1% and 15.4%.
These results were due to king-sized pack type growth and distribution gains strong in-store merchandising and some price realization.
In the drug class-of-trade year-to-date CMG category growth was up 6.9%.
Hershey drug retail takeaway was a solid up 14.9% resulting in a share gain of 1.7 points.
Our performance reflects greater retail collaboration and the IDP category management and consumer insights works we've completed over the last year.
In the second half of the year we would expect growth to temper somewhat as we begin to lap these initiatives.
As we look at the remainder of the year in the U.S.
we have many exciting products promotions programs and merchandising in place across all channels such as our Hershey's S'mores program and Almond Joy and Mounds Tropical Escape where 2 lucky winners received a 7-day Caribbean cruise and convenience store king-sized bar program to win free gasoline for the entire summer and the continued launch on the rollout of our Hershey's Air Delight.
We're satisfied with our disciplined approach to new products which entailed a detailed and thorough understanding of the consumer and the category.
This process has and will continue to lead to a consumer-based sustainable pipeline.
Our Air Delight products are now available in an instant consumable Hershey's Bar and Kisses chocolates.
The rollout is underway and advertising and a coordinated FSI will run in September.
We're excited about this launch and the potential it has to succeed in the marketplace.
I'd now like to spend a moment on our International business.
Outside the U.S.
our International business is on track and performing well.
Year-to-date our focused markets including Mexico China Brazil and India are ahead of plan and forecast to grow a combined 20% to 25% in 2011.
This is greater than what we discussed when I spoke to you at CAGNY.
Over the last few years we've nurtured this businesses and focused on differentiated product forms and packaging.
We've also invested in distribution and go-to-market capabilities.
In the select geographies we're replicating some of our U.S.
strategies relating to the confectionery demand landscape.
We'll continue with this disciplined approach to global expansion.
This has worked well in Mexico a country we've been in for over 40 years.
We have a diversified product line that includes chocolate candy sugar confections and drinks supported by an on-site R&amp;D facility.
We plan to replicate our success in other geographies especially in China our fastest growing international markets.
As such we're in the process of determining the location scope and size of an Asia R&amp;D facility that will support our businesses in that region.
We believe this is a logical next step in building out our international footprint.
An R&amp;D center closest to our fastest growing regions will enable us to collaborate with in-country sales marketing operations research universities all leading to a sustainable core brand growth and innovation relevant to local consumers.
Now to wrap up.
I'm pleased with the way the confectionery category and Hershey continue to perform.
As we look to the remainder of the year category growth is impacted by seasonality especially in the third quarter.
Thus we would not expect much net price realization.
We'll continue to monitor consumer behavior and purchasing patterns as we work with our retail customers to ensure that the implementation of the price increase is supported with customer trade promotions and merchandising that will continue to grow the category.
As discussed at CAGNY we're on track to increase full-year advertising expense for the total company in mid-single digits on a percentage basis versus last year.
As a result we expect 2011 net sales including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates to be greater than the company's long-term 3% to 5% objective an increase to about 6%.
Commodity markets will remain volatile.
However productivity and cost savings initiatives are in place.
And at this time we continue to estimate that the full year 2011 adjusted gross margin will be about the same as last year.
Combined with our strong first half performance we now expect 2011 earnings per share diluted to be greater than the company's long-term 6% to 8% objective and increase to about 10% for the full year.
Let me end by saying I'm optimistic and excited about our future.
It's a great privilege to lead our company.
We're focused and know what we need to do to succeed.
We have strong plans in place that enable us to win wherever we compete.
We're investing in our brands and capabilities leveraging our intellectual capital and building a global company.
I'll now turn it over to Bert who will provide some additional detail on our financial results.
Thanks J.P.
and good morning everyone.
I am pleased to report that Hershey posted another quarter of quality results.
As net sales increased greater than our long-term target with a good balance of growth in both the U.S.
and other key markets.
Retail takeaway and market share gains were strong.
Leverage and some timing of expenses within SM&amp;A resulted in 130 basis point improvement and adjusted SM&amp;A excluding advertising.
And we continue to be efficient in deploying brand support to generate top line growth utilizing a blend of trade and consumer select programs.
The second quarter sales gain of 7.5% was driven by volume increases including new products and net price realization of 3 points primarily in the U.S.
That exceeded expectations.
Foreign currency exchange also added about 1/2 a point.
In the U.S.
volume also benefited from earlier-than-expected shipments to customers due to a change and the timing of their promotional calendars.
These accelerated in-store programs were greater than expected and also resulted in higher trade promotion as we honored previously-agreed promotional price points.
Halloween shipments in Q2 were in line with the prior year.
Over the remainder of the year U.S.
category and Hershey growth is driven by a greater proportion of seasonal sales which we expect will be within the historical category growth rate of 3% to 4%.
Also note that in the third quarter we will begin to lap the successful launch of Reese's Minis and Hershey's Drops and we do not have a new product launch in that time frame this year.
Turning now to margins.
During the second quarter adjusted gross margin declined 130 basis points.
This is in line with our expectations and we continue to expect full year gross margin to be about the same as last year.
In the quarter higher commodity costs were only partially offset by net price realization supply chain savings and productivity.
Input costs were about $25 million to $30 million unfavorable also in line with expectations.
And there is no change to our full year inflation outlook.
With respect to gross margin it's worth noting that we've recognized about $40 million year-to-date of productivity.
The majority or about $35 million has been achieved within the cost of goods while the remainder benefits SM&amp;A.
Our full year productivity and cost savings targets remain unchanged at $75 million to $95 million and we expect to achieve savings towards the top end of that range.
As a result we expect quarterly year-over-year gross margin basis points change to sequentially improve over the remainder of the year.
As we previously stated commodities will be higher in 2011.
There is no change to our full year commodity cost outlook versus last quarter.
And over the remainder of the year we have visibility into our cost structure and continue to expect 2011 adjusted gross margin to be about the same as last year.
In the second quarter adjusted earnings before interest and income taxes or EBIT increased about 8% resulting in an adjusted EBIT margin of 17.1 in line with last year.
Advertising expense increased about 8% versus the year-ago period in line with mid-single digit percentage increase forecasted for the full year.
We would expect advertising to increase about the same amount in Q3 and then decline in Q4.
As we lap the higher investment that occurred in last year's fourth quarter.
Adjusted SM&amp;A excluding advertising declined 130 basis points as a percentage of sales versus last year.
This is partially due to timing as we expect cost related to non-advertising brand building and go-to-market capabilities to be higher in the second half of the year versus the first.
We still expect adjusted SM&amp;A excluding advertising to increase at a rate less than net sales for the full year.
Now let me provide an update on our International businesses.
On a reported and constant-currency basis net sales increased meaningfully in Mexico China and Brazil.
These investments we've made in these markets are enabling our brands to gain momentum in the marketplace.
We'll continue to make disciplined investments in these markets in Q3 and Q4 to drive brand awareness and trial.
As a result organic net sales in our businesses outside of the U.S.
and Canada are on track to increase at least 15% in 2011 putting us on pace to achieve over $1 billion in organic sales by 2015.
Operating income outside of the U.S.
and Canada was driven by U.S.
export business as investments in targeted focused markets during the quarter dampened profitability.
Moving further down to P&amp;L.
For the quarter interest expense was in line with expectations coming in at $23.4 million versus $22.8 million for the prior period.
For the full year we expect interest expense to be around $95 million slightly less than our previously estimated range of $95 million to $100 million.
The adjusted tax rate for the second quarter was 36.5% slightly lower than a year ago and in line with the outlook we provided in April.
Excluding tax rate impacts associated with business realignment charges we continue to expect the full year tax rate to be about 35%.
In the second quarter of 2011 weighted average shares outstanding on a diluted basis were $230.3 million consistent with 2010.
Leading to adjusted earnings per share-diluted of $0.56 up 10% versus year-ago.
Let me now provide a recap of our year-to-date adjusted results.
Net sales increased 9.4% in the first half.
Adjusted EBIT increased 10.5% resulting in adjusted EBIT margin gain of 10 basis points to 17.7%.
Advertising increased 19% on a year-to-date basis.
Adjusted gross margin was 42.7% year-to-date versus 43.2% last year or 50 basis points lower as supply chain cost savings productivity and a price utilization were more than offset by higher commodities.
Adjusted earnings per share-diluted in the first half increased 11% to $1.28 per share.
Now turning to the balance sheet and cash flow.
At the end of the second quarter net trading capital decreased versus last year's second quarter resulting in a cash inflow of $63 million.
Accounts receivable were down $24 million.
We continuously monitor our accounts receivable aging which remains extremely current and of high quality.
Inventory increased $55 million and accounts payable increased $95 million.
In terms of other specific cash flow items capital additions including software were $98 million in the quarter.
These amounts included Project Next Century capital expenditures of $62 million.
For the full year we expect Project Next Century capital additions to be in the $190 million to $200 million range.
In 2011 we expect CapEx excluding Project Next Century to be at the high end of our previously communicated $150 million to $160 million range.
So our total CapEx estimate for 2011 is $340 million to $360 million.
Note however that the total CapEx for Project Next Century program remains within our initially communicated range of $250 million to $300 million.
Depreciation and amortization was $52 million in the quarter.
This includes accelerated depreciation related to Project Next Century of approximately $7 million.
Adjusted operating depreciation and amortization is $45 million in the quarter.
In 2011 we are forecasting total operating depreciation and amortization of $185 million.
Dividends paid during the quarter were $76 million.
We did not acquire any stock in the second quarter replace shares issued in connection with employee exercises a stock options nor did we acquire any stock related to the current share repurchase program.
There is one $250 million outstanding on the current authorization.
As part of our long-term plan our objective is to acquire all shares related to stock option exercises.
Cash on hand at the end of the second quarter was $790 million up versus year-ago period and relatively in line with the balance of the end of 2010.
As we exit the second quarter we are well positioned to manage the seasonal working capital needs of the business which peaked in the third quarter as well as the higher capital expenditure requirements of Project Next Century.
Now let me provide an update on Project Next Century program.
We are pleased with the progress we're making on the West Hershey plant expansion which remains on track.
Major equipment delivery and installation is on schedule and we anticipate initial production line startup during the fourth quarter of 2011 with continued rollout and implementation throughout 2012.
The forecasted total pretax GAAP charges and non-recurring project implementation costs related to Project Next Century has been narrowed by $10 million.
This is primarily due to a reduction of our regional estimates for employee separation costs.
As a result total pretax non-recurring charges are now expected to be with $140 million to $160 million.
Note that this morning's press release appendix was updated to reflect our most current thinking of the expected timing of events.
By 2014 we continue to expect ongoing annual savings of approximately $60 million to $80 million.
Now to summarize.
Our goal in the second of the year is to maintain our marketplace momentum.
As we enter the third quarter we are well positioned to increase U.S.
market share and deliver on our financial objectives for the year.
Over the remainder of the year growth is more driven by seasonal items.
While consumers will see higher retail price points on our everyday instant consumable and take-home packaged candy we do not expect this to materially impact our financial results.
Therefore we expect 2011 net sales including the impact from foreign exchange to be about an increase of 6%.
Commodity market still remain volatile.
However we have visibility into our cost structure.
While we continue to anticipate higher input cost there is no change to our full year inflation outlook.
Productivity and cost savings initiatives are in place and we expect full year 2011 adjusted gross margin to be about the same as last year.
I stated earlier in 2011 we expect advertising expense to increase mid-single digits on a percentage basis versus last year.
As a result we now expect 2011 earnings per share diluted to be greater than the company's long-term 6% to 8% target to increase around 10%.
Before we go to Q&amp;A I'd like recap and remind you of some timing and unique items discussed earlier that will impact Q3 and 4.
So as you work your models please note the following: Over the remainder of the year U.S.
category and Hershey growth is driven more by seasonal business and consumers will see higher price points on non-promoted items.
As a result in the second half we would expect sales growth to be more representative of the historical category growth rate of 3% to 4%.
In Q4 we will be lapping the successful launch of Reese's Minis and Hershey's Drops and do not have a new product launch in that time frame compared to last year.
We'll achieve higher levels of productivity at the gross margin line in the second half of the year with sequential gains greater in Q4 than Q3.
Advertising will increase mid-single digits on a percentage basis in Q3 and then decline in Q4.
The effective tax rate will be 33% to 34% range in Q3 and 4 lower than year-to-date rate but still in line with our full year rate of about 35%.
As a result of these moving parts within quarters we would expect the increase in adjusted earnings per share diluted in the second half of the year to be driven by fourth quarter growth as we start to generate pricing and achieve higher levels of productivity.
We will now open it up to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Terry Bivens with JPMorgan.
Just a question here on kind of the calculus between price realization your volume growth and new products.
I guess you're signaling that the second half you're going to see more of the price realization from your -- obviously from your March pricing action.
As we look through the second half how do you balance the normal elasticity the volume hit you'll take against the ongoing success of some of your new products like Reese's Minis and Air Delights.
You confused me a little bit there by saying that there wasn't -- I know in the fourth quarter you won't have a product launch like you had a year ago.
But won't Air Delights essentially be incremental? Yes.
Terry we believe Air Delight will not only be largely incremental.
But if you even look back at Minis and Drops we felt very good about the contribution it's made to our overall growth profile this year.
And in fact as we said there will be some years where we're going to do a little bit better than others.
We really look in our growth algorithm to have about 1 point of growth coming from innovation.
And what's happened for us it's very very positive is that both Minis and Drops have exceeded our expectations.
And we want to make sure that even though we have a robust pipeline of innovation we want to make sure that we're supporting that innovation on a going basis.
And so carrying that one forward and the same with Air Delight we would expect both of those to give a strong performance.
I'm sorry the only thing I would add to that is the comment around Drops and Minis was really more reflective of fourth quarter which is when we launched it last year.
But everything that's been said about Air Delight is absolutely true.
In terms of the point that you around price utilization we did mention that it was a little bit higher in the second quarter than we anticipated.
But if you think about our third quarter which is when we shipped almost all of our Halloween and even some of our holiday it has the largest seasonal component.
And so we've said in the past that price utilization would come more toward the end of the year on our fourth quarter versus third being so seasonal.
And then I did mention in my remarks that it was a bit higher in the second than we earlier anticipated.
Okay.
And just to finish the point of that 3% to 4% growth you're looking at how would you characterize that between pricing and volume? Do you expect volume to be up for the year? Certainly we expect volume to be up for the year.
The only -- the differentiator that we're making obviously the first quarter had the Easter and we're all familiar with that.
And volume will be driven all year but we will get the elasticity impact of the price increase.
But for the year we do expect volume to be up.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
J.P.
as a newly appointed CEO maybe you can share with us your perspective on and how you're approaching the international expansion strategy.
I think you talked about your satisfied with the discipline approach so far.
But are there any plans to maybe accelerate an investment both organically and from an M&amp;A perspective.
Maybe you can give us also some perspective on what's going on with India with some of the press comments there.
So just in terms of if you can talk about your international strategy.
Sure.
Let me just take a bit of a step back and go through several of the things that we've said which I think will continue to be consistent.
But obviously the strong North American business is fundamental to our success.
It's the engine that makes so many things for us possible.
We really want to continue to expand our geographic footprint outside of the U.S.
And when we talk about that we're really talking about the most attractive markets for us where we can get growth where there's what I would call lower cost of entry.
There's not consolidated trade not necessarily as consolidated the competitive set.
And if the story is still really in the front of us in terms of overall market growth.
So expanding our geographic footprint outside of North America we continue to look at Mexico China Brazil India and then of course Latin America and Asia would be the way we describe those as regions.
The third pillar is to build a consumer relevant portfolio in both confections and as appropriate adjacencies that can also give us capabilities like distribution and also could include everything from healthy snack bars and convenience all the way through nutritional beverages that might focus on dairy and proteins.
So we're also very interested in looking at a broader portfolio.
Innovation continues to be very very important to us.
And then we're going to look for ways to accelerate that growth both organically.
So in China we continue to expand our organization today and then obviously via acquisition or joint ventures whichever is appropriate.
So as you make the comment around accelerating growth certainly we have that at the top of our mind.
Just commenting briefly on India.
First of all we have a great deal of respect for Adi Godrej and the Godrej family of companies.
We think India is an important market and we'll continue to participate in the Indian market.
How we participate there could potentially look different but we feel very good about the potential of our businesses in India.
And just in terms of the acquisition potential both from I guess from a pipeline perspective and then your decision either to go organically or through M&amp;A maybe you can talk about how you're approaching the framework there one versus the other? Well I think that it's really parallel paths so we continue to work on our businesses every day to make good choices and expand the business model that we think is replicable.
And then we have a very extensive filter that we use to assess companies.
And if we believe that there's one that's appropriate or multiple companies that were appropriate we'll run that through our normal process.
And we're always open minded to that.
Your next question comes from the line of David Palmer with UBS.
It looks like you had 3 big trademark innovations over the last year or so with the Hershey's Drops Reese's Minis and now Air Delight.
And it seems like these new products are trumping the Pieces innovation from the year prior.
Do you think that this pace and this sort of pace of new product news is going to be typical of The Hershey Company in the coming years? Well I think the thing that I would emphasize -- so first of all let me start by saying yes.
And the reason I say yes it's important to reflect on what we've said about being a knowledge-based company where we're really going to be consumer-insight focused really try to understand where our brands fair within the overall demand landscape.
And so we're not going to be doing what we may at one time lovingly called stuff where we just had pretty rapid introduction of things and then they were falling out as fast as they were going in.
Pieces continues to do very well.
There is certainly interaction with the new -- the introductions that we've made.
But they're doing well.
And I'd also --there's a couple that you didn't mention Jolly Rancher Awesome Twosome is doing well and our IB Frost is also doing well.
And I go back to my earlier comment we want to really make sure that we're supporting each of these initiatives to make them successful over time.
And in this kind of economic environment one of the things that's obvious and we've certainly learned is our retailers have precious dollars to spend and we need to make sure that each of these innovations are as productive for them as they are for us.
So churn is certainly not something people are looking for but real news around real brands that are sustainable.
Just of sort of related question the gum category there is a lot of energy in that category of few years back innovation at that period.
But that category seemed to lose it.
They seemed to lose that energy.
I know you don't have a huge gum and mint business but do you have an opinion about why that was? Why that category sort of lost the magic? And is there any license here? Well I think the gum segment had a lot of innovation a lot of news.
And that would certainly -- driving the business to test for all of us of course is what the velocity per SKU is on an ongoing basis.
But we feel good about our mint business so we have a #1 position in mints.
Mint grew very nicely for us from a share standpoint and contributed nicely.
In fact retail takeaway for us in FDMxCw our mint was up over 13%.
So we feel good about the things we're doing there.
There's nice price realization for the retail and us in that category.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
I guess with your background in international J.P.
I guess it's one of the advantages you bring to Hershey.
I guess I'm in a little bit surprised that there isn't a little bit more disclosure like of the 4% volume growth in the quarter.
How much of that is U.S.
versus international? Or maybe you could kind of detail that.
And then also you're talking -- when you talk about the second half '11 category growth of 3% to 4%.
Is that units? Is that dollars? Are you including international in that? Or are you just focused on the U.S.? It's a little bit -- I'm not exactly understanding what happened in the quarter with international so strong versus the U.S.
market and a little bit of kind of how we should think about the second half with these various swing factors? Yes.
Let me first talk a little bit about the International businesses.
As you know we don't break those businesses out separately.
But if I refer back to the remarks I made earlier at CAGNY we were saying that in order to get to $1 billion in business we were going to need to grow at about a 15% rate and we've really been growing closer to 20% to 25% and so we feel very good about that.
Every one of our markets contributed to that growth and they were an important part of the growth of the overall company within the quarter.
So we were very satisfied with the position of the businesses we have.
I can tell you I'm very committed.
With a number of my other colleagues uniquely I'm the first CEO of the company that started by running the International businesses at Hershey I had a chance to run North America.
So I've got a lot of sweat like a lot of other people in those markets.
And I'm excited to see what we're doing organically but I'm not satisfied that that's going to be enough for us.
And so we are going to try to accelerate our growth there to a number of different efforts.
As you look at the back half of the year and of course the U.S.
business is a significant percentage of our business we have a good understanding of what we've sold in given the nature of the seasonality of the business so you have Halloween you have holidays significantly in there.
And the other thing that may not be as obvious is the category slowed a little bit over the last 4 and 8 weeks.
And so on some level I think it's important none of us get out over our skis there as well.
So the second half profile is simply very different than the first half.
It's far more predictable price points have been protected and seasonal 2/3 of the seasonal business occurs in the second half.
And that's not affected by pricing so you won't have the price realization affecting the dollar sales there.
So those would be a couple of comments I would make around the profile of the business.
And then I would just tell you that our International businesses we hope continue to contribute at greater and greater levels.
Let me just again follow up on this briefly.
If I take your CAGNY presentation and I look at the growth targets of that billion dollars I mean I think the math works out given how much international you have.
It adds about over time like 1% to your consolidated top line growth.
So again when you're talking about the 3% to 4% category you're just talking U.S.
and we should view anything international consolidated on top of that? No Eric that's not way to think about it.
Let me give you kind of a macro view and then more important to the second of.
So when we talk about the second half we are talking about the total company and the seasonal component well we do have Chinese New Year certainly is far far bigger than the U.S.
If you think about on more macro within the 3% to 5% that we talked about on a long-term net sales we do think about being able to build growth certainly at the 3% to 4% category rate.
And grow some share in the U.S.
but at that 3% to 4% rate.
And we do hope that we continue to get that 1 point that gets us closer to the 5% within that 3% to 5% range from the International business.
All right.
That's helpful.
And then just one last follow up and I'll pass it on.
Bert is it reasonable to look at the pricing because I thought Dave and you last quarter did a very good job of kind of laying out how pricing is going to flow through over the next couple of quarters.
So basically is it fair to summarize that the second quarter pricing was greater than you expected that kind of stalled from the third quarter? But the fourth quarter is in line with what you were talking about when you kind of talked about situation last quarter? Yes I think that's the right way to think about it.
We did have more price realization in the second and we did certainly did expect it at the instantly consumable level C-store where it tends to change faster.
Where we saw more price realization than we expected probably was in other pack type.
And as you know there's been an awful lot of pricing across a number of categories.
So retailers perhaps are being was a little bit more aggressive on those things.
But the third quarter is very seasonal and J.P already mentioned price protected.
So we expect a lull there not like the second and the third.
And then as we get into the fourth you'll start to see more price realization.
There is less -- while the holiday does sell in the fourth we do shift some in the third.
And so we do expect a little bit of a rebound in the fourth on price realization.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zaslow with BMO Capital Markets.
On the price elasticity just what was your expectation on the price elasticity? It sounds like the volume was the degradation or the volume impact was less than expected why would you think that would change going forward? In terms of the elasticity I would say that it might have been a little better.
It was not that different than our expectations.
We did have in the quarter the volume more or less as we anticipated.
It was a good mix of U.S.
and non-U.S.
growth.
It's a little early to have real confirmation around what our model projections are only because again it's early in the price increase.
And you see it more on the consumable side.
I already said that we sold a little bit more on packaged candy.
But I think we're tracking more or less the way we expected.
And by the time we get to the end of the year and you get past the seasonal price protected component then we'll start to get a much better idea if we're tracking well against the model.
But right now we're not terribly different than we thought.
My next question is J.P.
I guess if you think about how you expect your -- is there any difference between how you think Dave managed the business and how you will.
Is there any point that you could say "Hey maybe I'll go in this direction." I know it's a very general question but is there a way that you could give us any sort of directional change? I assume if you give us some representation of how you look at it going forward? Well let me make a couple of comments.
First Dave was great boss and he was certainly a great friend he did a great job of leading the company.
So in a number of ways I hope there is some similarities or at least if I'm smart I should claim some.
But there's really probably a couple of things to think about.
First of all Dave and I worked really closely together and in many ways because of the way he was so collaborative we were co-architects of the number of things that we're doing.
But there's really a couple of different areas where we might be different.
And first if you look at my background after a foundation of kind of classical training at Procter &amp; Gamble for 22 years I spent a significant portion of my career working and living outside of North America and mostly in developing and emerging markets.
So that's certainly one way we're different and so I probably think about those things differently than some people.
In the second -- real difference is that I grew up in the business in commercial roles and I began my career in sales.
And both of this had a chance I think over the years touched most parts of the business through a number of different roles.
So we both had really broad-based experiences in the business.
So while we have slightly different paths I'd say that we both have broad experiences in operating roles.
Certainly I'm probably by default more focused on some of the commercial and brand-building initiatives that we have and I kind of like to describe myself pretty much as a general businessman.
And I love the International businesses and the roles they can play in creating balance for the business.
So I'm very committed to seeing the company if I look back on what I hope to be able to leave as a legacy is that we've got the right international footprint and portfolio for the next areas of growth.
And that's how I'm going to spend a lot of my time.
Any chance we'll actually see it break out of international growth the international profits anytime? Well I can probably ought to let Bert say that but I assume that if we get the right level of scale certainly that's where it would take us.
Yes.
I wouldn't make any comment beyond that.
It's really more of an accounting question.
And certainly as that business becomes bigger we will provide more information.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Lazar with Barclays Capital.
First question just around the gross margin.
I wanted to make sure I heard you right on the commodity side.
I think you've said that commodities were underfavorable by $25 million to $30 million.
Was that absolute or net of pricing and productivity and things? Because if it's absolute one would think that your 3% price utilization in the quarter could easily have covered that? So a little clarity on that would be helpful.
Yes that's an absolute number on commodities.
Now there's another component of what I'll think of as supply chain costs which include -- we think of it as co- manufacturing.
We do some packaging and some things outside which also kept some commodity implication which is a bit separate.
But the margin itself in the quarter was more or less within expectations.
It is a little lumpy the year.
And we continue to expect that the full year will be about the same as last year.
Productivity is a little different in terms of the profile.
I did mention that we had about $40 million in the first half and that our outlook range being $75 million to $95 million and we think we'll be toward the upper end of that so it gives you a sense that productivity will be higher in the back half.
And that's how we'll sequentially get back to more or less equal to last year.
But the margin number was not that much different than we thought it would be.
Was the productivity more first quarter weighted? I'm just trying to get a sense of the gross margin shift year-over-year? I know it's against a very tough comp last year certainly.
Yes.
We're a little bit more in the first quarter than the second and within that $40 million that we talked about for the half.
Okay.
And then just a follow up on elasticity.
I know so far it's early but more or less in line with what your models said.
Do the models assume though that elasticity should be more reasonable sort of this time around versus the price increase a couple of years ago just because obviously you've done a lot around your brand and spend around reinvestment innovation the step-up in the sales force and various channels.
So I assume the elasticity the models might suggest something different by the way you're planning or maybe not but I'm curious on it Yes I think that's a good observation Andrew.
And while the methodology is fairly similar we do look at it by brand and by channel impact type and such.
You point it right I mean versus the 2008 price increase our business is certainly better supported than it was at that time in terms of advertising levels and the like.
The economy I think is the wild card frankly that while in 2008 we were sort of in the midst of the financial crisis.
We're still a little cautious on the consumer perhaps given unemployment levels.
But the model does reflect those differences in the support of the business.
So that's a good observation.
Last thing is just -- I think you'd probably say it's just too early for this.
But as we think out to 2012 at this stage are there a couple of things even preliminary or directionally that you kind of know will be sort of change factors one way or the other? In other words we know you've got fuller slate of the pricing coming in next year so we kind of factor that in.
Is there any way to get a sense of broadly of your full basket of commodities? Is there going to be huge step-up one way or the other or other things that we might not be able to see at this stage? Yes.
I mean this is not the time of the year that we talk a lot about 2012 and we will as things develop.
You already mentioned the pricing and you're right.
The lion share realization does come next year.
And we're certainly -- we expect that commodities will continue to be a headwind next year that's the way we think about.
The cost basket will get more detail as we get further into the year.
But having said that we're not thinking any differently about our long-term targets as we get into '12.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I just had 2 questions for you.
One was a bit of  a follow up to Andrew's question on the gross margin which is is there any change to your cost inflation in the second half of the year? Something that could be different there that can affect our view of the gross margin there? No.
I mentioned that the outlook really hasn't changed much from Q1 when we last spoke.
Productivity is a little bit more back-end skewed but we expect sequential improvement based on that and to end up the year with what we've been saying all along which is more or less with the gross margin ratio similar to last year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And then a question for you on the second quarter the one just completed you had your Air Delight shipments at least in part in the quarter here you had -- there was a comment about the change in promotional timing.
And of course you also had international growth.
It looked quite strong across the various markets.
So if you really dug down underneath that I'm just curious is the underlying volume growth rate in the U.S.
maybe a little softer than you expected but you had a couple of things that help lift that? Or are there a little more detail you can give on those factors that helped the second quarter? Yes what we mentioned in some promotional activity that came into the second probably would have occurred in the third really if you go back it kind of offset what we talked about between the first and the second.
As well we got a little bit of that so it was a little bit neutral to the quarter but comes out of the back half.
In terms of underlying business while certainly there's been a strong contribution to the U.S.
business from the new products because Minis and Drops continue to perform well and we did have the pipeline and the launch around Air Delight the underlying core business continues to be where we expect it to be.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And was there a benefit from Air Delight is that a large benefit or a quantifiable benefit for the second quarter? Well you do get some of the pipeline still.
And obviously without a lot of the takeaway yes.
So yes there are some for sure.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Is that a point of growth though or is it something less than that.
We're not really going to comment on the amount that it impacted the quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of David Driscoll with Citigroup.
J.P.
congratulations on the promotion to CEO well deserved.
I want to follow up on the second quarter and third quarter commentary.
So just to make sure Bert second quarter it had a 1.5 volume shift into the first quarter and you told us about that last time.
And that was supposed to be a negative headwind on second quarter.
Then you had an offsetting impact of third quarter volumes shipping into second quarter of an equal amount.
So far if I'm saying that right then it sounds to me like third quarter revenue growth that's the place where the negative is going to show up.
We're going to see a lower revenue growth in Q3 versus pretty much any of the quarters in the year.
Is that right? No.
I don't think I would think about it exactly that way David.
But first let me talk about the first comment that you made.
The shift first to second third to -- or second to first third to second if you will.
They're approximately equal not exactly but approximately equal.
And really what that was is we had a couple of large customers decided that they wanted to run some price protected program sooner and we work with them to be able to have them do that.
The third quarter although there is a little bit of a shift there is very much a quarter that has a larger seasonal component because we shipped almost all of the Halloween which is a large season and then we also shipped some of our holiday.
And so we wouldn't read that necessarily that that really puts all the pain on the third quarter versus the rest of the year.
But the shifts ware approximately equal.
Okay.
And then the final comment on the pattern issue is that you said advertising spending of 8% in the third quarter and that suggests some EPS pressure in the third quarter and I think that's the reason why in said most of the growth is fourth quarter? Well there are 2 things.
We said I think advertising was higher in the first because you know we have some new brands we have Syrup and I think PayDay being advertised as well.
We started to advertise Minis and Drops.
So the first quarter had a higher than mid-single digit rate.
And then the second quarter was in the mid-single digit.
So we expect to finish out the year.
I did mention though that SM&amp;A was lower by 130 basis points in the quarter.
And that some of that was timing it's not advertising related but it is other programs that will be in the third quarter.
All right that's clear.
J.P.
back to international I want to pickup on Judy's comments on Godrej in India.
There's press reports that specifically state that this thing is going to get dissolved.
Your press release today didn't actually say that.
It just said that you took a write-off on it.
I'm confused.
Is it dissolved? Are you still -- is the JV ongoing is it going to remain ongoing? And how is that business going? I don't think that you've launched the number of the Hershey brands on that joint venture and I'm just kind of curious just to understand kind of why and what's the strategy? First what I would say is that the write-off for impairment you're talking about actually was in the previous period not this period.
And I want to make sure that I'm not making too many comments around our joint venture relationship it's just a matter of policy we frankly don't do that.
Certainly we've done our share of learning in India but we think that the brands and the position that the joint venture offers us certainly is a good starting point.
So I'm not going to make comments to predict anything about that particular relationship but what I would come back to you and say is that we continue to believe India is a great market.
It's a market we want to participate in.
I think the story in India is a longer one than say compared to a China.
So I think patience is going to certainly be a virtue there getting it right.
Many of our brands there are co-branded between Godrej and Hershey.
And one of our largest brands there Mahallato [ph] which is a chocolate sugar confectionery type brand is one that we probably made some positioning errors I would say in changing sizes and some things that didn't work to our advantage when we were in an increasing sugar cost environment.
We've reversed those.
We had a very good second quarter.
The business had a lot of traction.
And we felt good about that.
So those are just a couple of comments I would make there around the Indian business.
But we like the market certainly.
Did Hershey bid on the -- and I don't know if I'm going to say this right Hsu Fu Chi that's the business that Nestle just bought I believe a 60% stake in.
Were you guys involved in the bidding? Or was the CEO transition -- J.P.
did at anyway did that prevent you guys from getting in on the bidding process there.
Well as a matter of company policy we don't comment on M&amp;A or acquisition by others.
Certainly we were aware Hsu Fu Chi and we are very excited about our potential in China and one acquisition by another company certainly doesn't change our outlook on the market.
And as you know that company had a number of different pieces to it.
So what I would tell you is is that we continue to have our head down in China looking for opportunities and we're growing nicely there.
Your next question comes from the line of Rob Moskow with Crdit Suisse.
I noticed that you made a little side comment about the end of second quarter.
You thought that you saw the last 4 weeks the category slowing a little bit.
Can you give us an order of magnitude about what your data is seeing I didn't see much of a slowdown.
And then secondly can you also comment on the price realization at the shelf.
The data I saw indicated that retailers were keeping prices pretty high or maybe even raising prices higher than what you were charging them.
I saw price realization up around 8%.
Is there any risk that retailers go ahead and raise price ahead of the fact even though that you're price protecting them? Well let me just kind of give you an FDMxC view on what we're seeing in terms of the category.
If you look at the 4 weeks ending in June 11 we saw the category was up about 2.3%.
It bumped up a little bit higher than at the end of 7 9 and then if you really do a weighted average of the last 8 weeks it's about plus 3.3% and the category had been running a little bit higher above 4% prior to that period of time.
So we're just seeing a little bit of moderation there.
Rob your point on price realization I think what I mentioned was we certainly were expecting it.
In a similar business a lot of that being C-store related.
We did see more price realization on other pack types and that was the part that was a bit [indiscernible].
I mean retailers set their own prices certainly with respect to how they manage their businesses with or without our price protection.
We protect price as we've agreed on certain merchandising event that have a demand curve behind them and those are agreed upon before pricing.
So they certainly can set their prices different than whatever is price protected.
Do you see that happening in the marketplace right now that they are actually...
I think we've seen a little bit of that but again there's been a lot of pricing in a lot of categories.
And so perhaps retailers are moving in that direction a little sooner than they might have done in the past.
Your next question comes from the line of Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Just wanted to ask J.P.
you opened your comments this morning with a reference to the insight-driven performance program.
I'm just trying to get a handle on how much more meat there is from programs like that.
It seems that strengthening of relationship through improving category management practices have been a theme of Hershey for the last several years.
So perhaps you could tell us a little bit about what's different about the new program maybe some examples of the kind of insight that you're now able to generate that you weren't able to before.
And kind of how many innings through this process are we particularly now that I think you said that you've picked up the category captain via the larger U.S.
retail relatively recently.
Yes.
First of all as you know The Hershey Company has been active in the category captain for a number of our retailers for a long period of time.
And IDP is one element of the next generation of category management but it's really even broader than that.
But what would really be great is that sometime when we're altogether we can talk in more depth around IDP because it's going to be a fundamental piece of our business going forward for a long time.
So we could do a justice in that environment probably more so than the call.
But what it really does is it establishes a different kind of relationship where we're talking far more from a longer-term strategic standpoint about how do we create and yield demand opportunities between shoppers and consumers.
It really links retailer strategies with our category strategies.
And then it enables us to invest in research that's mutually beneficial to all of us based on some of the insights that we have.
So a lot of the spend we have rather than going up ourselves and say we're going to go learn about consumers and then go tell somebody about it and there's a transaction.
This is really a collaborative approach where we really make decisions around those investment dollars.
Together we decide what the research looks like and it's a far more harmonized in strategic relationship and it's longer-term or some of the things we agree to do we're doing over time.
So that by the time you get to the point of the items you're going to sell the innovations you're going to make they're well understood by everyone and it's less about the transaction and it's more about the next logical step and solutions you're providing to both consumers and also to shoppers.
So it's really been a powerful tool for us because it's changed the dialogue we're having with a number of customers and it's changed our role in the store in some instances and they go even beyond our category but certainly benefiting our category as well.
So we're excited about it.
It's the way we run the company and it's part of us creating scale around intellectual capital and being a knowledge-based organization.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Just a quick follow up on some of the comments you've made about gross margins in the second quarter.
I just want to make sure that I'm understanding it correctly.
Cost inflation or input cost inflation came in roughly in line with what you were expecting.
And net price realization was a little bit better than you thought.
But I guess the difference and cost savings were where you thought but the reason why gross margins were still sort of in line with what you were budgeting was because the mix was a little bit negative is that right? Well not so much the mix.
If you think about the quarter Bryan we certainly would have expected some volume impact and between gross and net in terms of higher trade promotion that works way down to the gross margin line.
And so in our case it's more around some of the seasonality around productivity which I talked about.
And in the back half of the year we expect to have a bit more of that where we'll get some sequential growth.
So it really was not so much about mix.
In fact the Instant Consumable business which is our higher margin business and you see that in sort of the takeaway numbers in C-stores was actually pretty good.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Feeney with Janey.
I just wanted to dig in a little bit following up on elasticity result.
When you talk about your elasticity model the one area I mean obviously it's been great and the architecture and category attributes are great.
If there is a concern over the next 12 months it's at a category level elasticity maybe start to bump in to salty snacks and other things in the store where -- I don't know how to think about the interplay because clearly confectionery has been realizing price better than others and actually that runs into adjacent categories.
And if Hershey's ever had problem in the past in my view that's kind of been it.
So I specifically want to ask does your elasticity model capture first of all the relative performance of the confectionery category versus other categories as far as pricing goes to the consumer? And secondly does this time around your Hershey specific elasticity model sort of capture that Masterfoods is already out there with announced pricing in a way they weren't the last time around? Jon we do some of the -- some of the modeling does take into account obviously how the products interact with other categories packaged foods.
But I would tell you that the majority of the emphasis really is on a brand-by-brand channel-by-channel and pack-type analysis.
We do obviously take into consideration and we've already talked about it a little bit earlier the support behind the business that we have today versus where we might have modeled it previously and what we learned about the actual elasticity versus modeling in the previous increase.
But not nearly I think the level of emphasis that the way you tried to explain it versus the other categories.
Jon there's a couple of interesting things that might get to a bit of your question.
But interestingly both chocolate and non-chocolate over the last quarter have seen increases in household penetration.
So chocolates had a 1.1 point increase in household penetration chocolates been about the same.
If you look at the balance of the snacking categories without calling out anything specific those 2 would certainly be at the top.
The other thing that's interesting is that we're seeing is that trips for buyer and dollars spent also in our category is doing quite well.
And then also in terms of the total dollars spend we're seeing that being the same actually.
And so with increased frequency that's one of the things that's really helping us.
You'll probably see that more within convenience early than any place else.
But in terms of again the robustness of the category it really puts us in the pretty advantage place and some of that data is quite encouraging.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Serotta of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC</strong> Most of my questions have been answered at this point.
But I wanted to revisit the second quarter gross margin question.
It looks like your gross margins were -- you comment today your gross margins were done pretty much in line with expectations.
Could you sort of help us bridge what some of the drivers were of the gross margin decline other than the input cost inflation which you quantified? Yes.
It's not really Eric in terms of trying to give you something that was a bigger driver it really does come down to we had volume and some price realization and we did have some productivity which more comes in the back half than the first.
But simply the cost impact in the quarter in terms of commodity inflation which is not dramatically different than the first was greater than what we were able to offset it with our productivity programs.
So for the most part it really is that it may feel a little bit lumpy during the year but as we get greater productivity in the back half we expect that sequential improvement and end up the year just as we've been saying all along.
So it's really are the same drivers that you talked about.
LLC</strong> Well I guess what I'm getting at is were you at all disappointed that the slightly better-than-expected volume and maybe earlier-than-expected price realization that you saw during the quarter didn't translate into perhaps some better gross margin performance and some better EPS upside than what you actually ended up posting? No.
I wouldn't say so.
I think while we would all like it to be a lot smoother it wasn't a lot different than we anticipated before the quarter begun.
And our view was that we would get that sequential improvement in the back half.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then as we look to the back half is it fair to say that you're expecting more fixed cost leverage even though volumes are going -- you know you're going to feel some elasticity impact you're going to have a some greater productivity savings than you did or productivity savings are going to ramp.
I'd say on balance I think that's true.
Certainly we've already mentioned the productivity has a bit of a skew in the back.
And the volumes around the back half of the year a bit more predictable that they're being the higher seasonal component.
So I think that would be the case.
Your next question comes from the line of John Baumgartner with Telsey Advisory Group.
J.P.
2 questions.
I think first internationally in emerging markets given these investment in those emerging markets and then I guess the time required and your experience with that ROI is there any sort of time horizon you may have where we might start seeing material profitability out of those investments? Are we 3 years away are we 5 years away 10 years away? Just trying to get a feel for that.
And then secondly in the U.S.
just curious any thoughts on the premium chocolate segment.
I know a few years there was quite a bit of focus behind the Starbucks and the Scharffen Berger and the Bliss.
And I guess since then it's really kind of fall off as a talking point.
I mean is that no longer a relevant area of focus for you? Is it just sort of a tighter discretionary spending here in the food economy? Well let me take the first question.
We don't put a specific time line around what those businesses would look like.
What we're really focused in is having the right business model in place investing in the brands and ensuring that we're committed.
So there's been some times in the past we've had forays into some markets but I would say that our commitment level hasn't been as high as it should.
And then of course how you do it is important as well.
Whether you're doing organically whether you have an acquisition that's attractive from the very beginning or sometimes joint ventures offer some of those benefits as well.
So it really would be almost impossible to talk about it in term of timing.
I really think about in terms of making the profitable investment -- making the appropriate investments and brand building.
And we talked a lot about a disciplined approach.
Don't read that as a timid approach but read it as a very thoughtful and balanced approach to ensuring that we're building a solid portfolio for our business.
The second point around premium is the premium segment is about 6% of the total Chocolate business.
We think it's important to participate in premium as premium is looking as though it's starting to grow little bit again but recall in trade-up in premium it's about flat.
90% of the volume is really for the category and the mix of our wheelhouse and we've continued to really insure that we've made investments that are sustaining on those brands first.
But going forward we continue to think about the importance of premium and we'll participate there.
6% of the chocolate category.
At this time there are no further questions.
Gentlemen do you have any closing remarks? Thank you for joining us for today's conference call.
Matt Miller and I will be available the rest of the day for any follow-up questions that you may have.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Denise and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Hershey Company Third Quarter 2011 Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Mark Pogharian you may begin your conference.
Thank you Denise.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the Hershey Company's Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
J.P.
Bilbrey President and CEO; Bert Alfonso Senior Vice President and CFO; and I will represent Hershey on this morning's call.
We also welcome those of you listening via the webcast.
Let me remind everyone listening that today's conference call may contain statements which are forward-looking.
These statements are based on current expectations which are subject to risks and uncertainty.
Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements because of factors such as those listed in this morning's press release and in our 10-K for 2010 filed with the SEC.
If you have not seen the press release a copy is posted on our corporate website in the Investor Relations section.
Included in the press release is a consolidated balance sheet and a summary of consolidated statements of income prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Within the Notes section of the press release we have provided adjusted pro forma reconciliations of select income statement line items quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.
As we've said within the Notes the company uses these non-GAAP measures as key metrics for evaluating performance internally.
These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP.
Rather the company believes the presentation of earnings excluding certain items provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations.
We will discuss third quarter results excluding net pretax charges related to Project Next Century of $13.5 million in 2011 and $4.5 million in 2010 as well as our third quarter 2011 net pretax gain on the sale of non-core trait licensing rights of $17 million.
Our discussion of any future projections will also exclude the impact of these net charges.
With that out of the way let me now turn the call over to J.P.
Bilbrey.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
Before I start I just want to make sure that this question doesn't come up later.
Bert Alfonso is the Executive Vice President CFO and CIO so nothing happened to him on the way to this call.
Results for the third quarter were solid and I'm pleased with our financial and marketplace performance despite the macroeconomic challenges that persists.
The CMG -- candy mint and gum category continues to grow above the historical growth rate and is outpacing salty snacks cookies and crackers.
Our business is strong in all classes the trade and our collaborative partnership with retailers continues as they value the importance of the confectionery category in the leadership that Hershey provides.
Hershey's third quarter results reflect the continued momentum of our brands.
Net sales increased 5% slightly ahead of our expectations.
Seasonal volume which were sold in at previously agreed upon price points and represents about 1/3 of our total U.S.
net sales in the third quarter increased and for the year will be greater than our initial expectations.
Price realization on nonseasonal items in the U.S.
was also ahead of our estimates.
Importantly volume elasticity on these pack types was in line with our modeling and better than the historical staples group average.
For a profitability perspective earnings came in a bit better than our expectations.
Our overall commodity cost profile was significantly higher this quarter than in 2010.
However cost savings and productivity initiatives as well as net price realization helped mitigate the impact.
Our solid results enabled us to be flexible in our approach to incremental brand investment.
In 2011 we estimate that advertising will increase high single digits on a percentage basis versus the prior year enabling us to support new advertising on Jolly Rancher and Hershey's Cookies 'N' Creme.
This is greater than our previous estimates of a mid-single-digit increase.
Full year adjusted SM&amp;A excluding advertising is also expected to increase slightly versus our initial estimates as we accelerate investments in our go-to-market strategies and capabilities.
Year-to-date CMG is up 4.4% in the measured FDMxC channels greater than historical growth rate of about 3% to 4%.
In the third quarter CMG was up 4.5%.
As we look to 2012 we would expect historical growth rates to prevail in the category although the underlying drivers of growth may differ as pricing is implemented in the marketplace.
In terms of Hershey's marketplace performance total CMG retail consumer takeaway for the 12 weeks ending October 8 and year-to-date periods for our custom database and channels of accounts for over 80% of our retail business was up a strong 8.7% and 8.3% respectively.
As a reminder these channels include food drug mass here including Walmart and convenience stores.
In the channels measured by syndicated data FDMxC or food drug mass excluding Walmart and including convenience stores Hershey's Q3 CMG retail takeaway was 8.4% resulting in a market share gain of 1 point.
On a year-to-date basis we've also gained 1 point of market share.
Specifically within the food class-of-trade CMG grew by 2.3% in the third quarter less than the historical category growth rate due largely to gum performance.
Chocolate category performance within the food channel was solid up 4.7% driven by new products and seasonal items.
Investments in the category in the form of innovation and advertising are present for most major manufacturers.
Hershey's food channel retail takeaway increased 3.8% in the third quarter driven by our chocolate and non-chocolate performance up 3% and 8.7% respectively.
This resulted in a Q3 food channel market share gain of 0.4 point.
These results were driven by core brand performance new advertising on PayDay and Jolly Rancher and our in-store merchandising and programming.
For perspective PayDay retail takeaway was up 37% over the last 12 weeks and retail takeaway on Jolly Rancher up 20%.
Today retail customer Halloween order shipments and sell-through is on track although we've not had a complete read on sell-through for another couple of weeks.
Seasonal specific advertising coupons and programming support is greater than last year.
And we believe this is the right mix that sets the stage for another winning season.
In 2011 we estimate that our seasonal market share will increase for the fourth consecutive year and it will elect that 2011 with at least a 32% share of the total seasons.
Turning now to the C-store class-of-trade where the CMG category was up at solid 6.5% in Q3.
Hershey's C-store takeaway increased for the 13th consecutive quarter and was up 12.8% resulting in a share gain of 1.5 points.
In Q3 Hershey's C-store chocolate non-chocolate and mint takeaway was up 13% 15.4% and 13.8% respectively.
These gains were driven by price realization net volume gains due to king-sized growth and strong in-store merchandising.
Within the C-store channel the king-sized candy bar has emerged with the fastest growing pack type.
Year-to-date king size is up about 18% greater than the 3 year COGR [ph] of about 11% and on pace to be a $1.1 billion business in convenience stores by year end.
Here Hershey is the king-size leader with a 54 share of the segment.
In 2011 Hershey's C-store king-size retail takeaway has increased 22% with market share up 1.6 points.
As it relates to our March pricing action king-size conversion has progressed nicely due to merchandising continued distribution gains innovation and consumer recognition that this is a good price value proposition.
At the drug class-of-trade the CMG category continues to expand with growth of 6.1% in the third quarter.
Hershey's drop channel recap takeaway with solid up 11% resulting in a share gain of 1.1 points.
Our performance was balanced with retail takeaway up about 9.4 percent in chocolate and 16.8% in non-chocolate.
Our Ice Breakers net platform driven by the new Ice Breakers Frost product continues to do very well as evidenced by our 19% third quarter net retail takeaway in the drug channel.
We're leveraging the momentum we have in mints to drive our Ice Breakers ice cubes gum business.
During the quarter we achieved the desired distribution level of Ice Breaker ice cube bottle pack in a couple of our key drug customers enabling us to secure key point of sale position resulting in a gum share within this category up 0.2 points.
In the fourth quarter we'll be active in all classes of trade in solid brand-driven initiatives including core brand merchandising programming and consumer promotion along the Hershey's S'mores tailgating of Reese's NCAA Football Perfect Seat promotion and Ice Breaker's frost New Year's Eve in Las Vegas promotion and a holiday in baking season.
Now for a quick update on new products.
The Hershey's Air Delight launch commenced during the summer and on-air advertising begun in September as we reach targeted distribution points.
Early trial numbers are outpacing our initial modeling driven by higher value FSIs.
In Q4 we'll focus on C-store distribution and a high-value coupon program to build awareness and trial.
While we're very excited about this launch it's important to remember that Air Delight is a new and unique form and texture for U.S.
consumers and will require brand building efforts.
Reese's Minis and Hershey's Drops has been in the market for a little less than a year and it's been an overwhelming success.
Both products have exceeded our expectations and we'll support them with strong year 2 advertising multiple SSIs and strong merchandising support.
This investment will ensure the brands continue to grow in 2012 and beyond.
The take-home and the consumable king-size pack type is still doing well in the marketplace.
We were particularly pleased with the Reese's Minis king-size where dollar velocity ranked second among all king-size offerings in C-stores and sixth in FDMS.
Lastly late in the fourth quarter and into 2012 we'll launch some close end line extensions that will bring variety and excitement to some existing brands including Hershey's Drops Cookies 'n' Cream at a king-size pack price Hershey's Pieces Milk Chocolate with Almonds and Jolly Rancher Crunch 'N Chew.
I'd now like to spend some time on our International business.
Outside of the U.S.
our International business remains on track.
I'm happy to reaffirm my comments from last quarter and tell you that in our focus markets of Mexico China Brazil and India we are ahead of plan and are forecasted to grow a combined 20% to 25%.
That is in our model assumptions.
Therefore if our business outside the U.S.
and Canada continues to grow with the current organic rates we could achieve our target of $1 billion in sales earlier than our 2015 objective.
As we've done to date we'll do this in a disciplined way maintaining balance across our overall business.
Thoughtful consumer insights and portfolio expansion and building our go-to-market capability is where we're focusing our efforts.
Now to wrap up.
The CMP category continues to grow across all retail channels in the U.S.
despite the economic challenges facing consumers.
The category is proven to be resilient in difficult times and we would expect this to be the case going forward.
As we look at the remainder of the year in 2012 consumers will see higher everyday and promotional retail prices.
With our fourth quarter sales growth we now expect full year 2011 net sales including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates to increase around 7% and earnings per share diluted to increase around 10%.
Over the coming months we'll closely monitor category performance and work with our retail partners to continue to win in the marketplace.
Our initial expectation for 2012 is a net sales growth in our 3% to 5% long-term objective.
While we anticipate higher input costs in 2012 we're very focused on gross margin and have pricing productivity and cost savings initiatives in place within our margin structure.
Therefore based on our current views and expectations for 2012 we expect growth and adjusted earnings per share-diluted within our current long-term target of 6% to 8%.
Now let me turn it over to Bert who will provide some additional financial detail in perspective.
Thank you J.P.
and good morning everyone.
First we closed another quarter of volume results as net sales increased at the higher end of our long-term target.
Topline growth was balanced across the U.S.
and international markets and retail takeaway continued to be strong leading to market share gains.
These results allow the flexibility and the timing of incremental brand investments during the third quarter and over the remainder of the year.
The third quarter 5% net sales gain was driven primarily by the continued growth of our core brands and new products.
Net price realization primarily in the U.S.
was about a 5.4-point benefit.
As J.P.
mentioned price realization are non-seasonal items in the us was ahead of our estimates.
Seasonal volume gains that were better than initial expectations were driven by Halloween and new products primarily Reese's Minis and Hershey's Drops that continued to perform well in the marketplace.
Offsetting these gains were modest volume declines in line with our price elasticity model resulting in an overall volume decline of about 1 point.
In addition favorable foreign currency rates contributed approximately 0.5 point.
Importantly on a portion of the portfolio where pricing was in effect we were pleased that net price realization involving elasticity which was relatively in line with our estimates.
Turning to margins.
Third quarter adjusted gross margin was 42.5%.
As expected the third quarter adjusted gross margin decline of 20 basis points sequentially improved versus Q2 and was in line with our estimates.
Net price realization and productivity improvements were offset by increased commodity and supply chain costs.
Input costs were about $45 million unfavorable in the quarter and in line with our expectations.
We have good visibility into our cost structure for the remainder of the year.
And there's no change to our full year commodity cost outlook.
We've achieved approximately $70 million year-to-date productivity in cost savings primarily within cost of goods.
And we expect an additional $20 million to $25 million to be generated in the fourth quarter.
Therefore we continue to expect adjusted gross margin to sequentially improve in Q4 and be about the same as last year for the full year.
In the third quarter adjusted earnings before interest and taxes increased about 4.4% resulting in adjusted EBIT margin of 19.6% a 10-basis-point decline versus last year.
Advertising expense increased about 7% versus the year-ago period.
For the full year we now expect advertising to increase high-single digits on a percentage basis versus the prior year.
This is greater than our previous estimate of a mid-single digit percentage increase.
As expected adjusted SM&amp;A excluding advertising increased about 3% versus last year driven by cost related to non-advertising brand building and go-to-market capabilities in both the U.S.
and international markets.
We expect the year-over-year increase in Q4 to be greater than Q3.
Although for the full year adjusted SM&amp;A excluding advertising will be up less than the increase in net sales.
Now let me provide an update on our International businesses.
Overall our sales outside the U.S.
and Canada increased about 25%.
Our reported in constant currency basis net sales increased meaningfully in our 4 focus markets Mexico China Brazil and India.
The investments we've made in these markets are enabling our brands to gain momentum in the marketplace.
We'll continue to make disciplined investments to drive brand awareness and trial that will position the company for future growth.
As a result organic net sales in our businesses outside of the U.S.
and Canada are on track to increase at least 20% in 2011 pretty much well on pace to achieve our goal of $1 billion in organic sales by 2015.
Operating income outside the U.S.
and Canada increased slightly year-over-year driven in part by our export business model.
The combining presence on our 4 focus markets during the third quarter unfavorably impacted profitability.
Moving further down the P&amp;L.
In Q3 interest expense was $23 million up 3.5% versus the prior year.
In 2011 we now expect interest expense to be down about 4% versus 2010 slightly less than our previous estimate of $95 million.
The adjusted tax rate from the third quarter was 34.2% or 90 basis points less than the prior year due to the income mix among our various U.S.
and international businesses.
Excluding the tax rate impact associated with business realigning charges and the trademark licensing gain we continue to expect full year tax rate to be about 35%.
In the third quarter of 2011 weighted average shares outstanding on a diluted basis were $229.8 million versus $230.5 million in 2010 leading to adjusted earnings per share-diluted of $0.84 up 6.3% versus a year ago.
Now let me provide a quick recap of our year-to-date results.
Net sales increased 7.8%.
Adjusted gross margin was 42.6% year-to-date versus 43% last year.
Higher commodity cost was partially offset by productivity gains and net price realization.
Advertising increased approximately 15% on a year-to-date basis.
Adjusted EBIT increased 8.1% resulting in an adjusted EBIT margin gain of 10 basis points to 18.4% from 18.3%.
Adjusted earnings per diluted share for the 9-month period increased 9.8% to $2.13 per share.
Turning now to the balance sheet and to cash flow.
At the end of the third quarter net trading capital was relatively in line with last year.
Accounts receivable was up $15 million due to higher seasonal sales and remains extremely current.
We continuously monitor our accounts receivable aging and despite current macroeconomic conditions we have not seen an impact on our customers payment patterns.
Inventory increased by $60 million due to some earlier seasonal bill in the upcoming Project Next Century production transition while accounts payable increased by $80 million.
We expect net trading capital to improve in the fourth quarter as we cycle through the peak seasonal period of our business.
In terms of other specific cash flow items capital additions including software were $86 million in the third quarter and $266 million year-to-date.
The third quarter announced included $48 million of Project Next Century capital expenditures.
For 2011 we're targeting total capitalization to be $340 million to $360 million.
This range includes base ongoing CapEx of $150 million to $160 million plus Project Next Century CapEx of approximately $190 million to $200 million.
Depreciation amortization was $55 million in the quarter.
This includes a solid depreciation related to Project Next Century of about $9 million.
Adjusted operating depreciation and amortization was $47 million from the quarter.
In 2011 we are forecasting total operating depreciation amortization to be about $210 million while accelerated depreciation and amortization related to Project Next Century is expected to be $25 million to $30 million.
Dividends paid during the quarter were $76 million.
During the third quarter approximately 165 million [ph] of our common shares were repurchased to replace shares issued in connection with the stock option exercises.
We do not acquire any stock in the third quarter related to the 250 million outstanding repurchase program.
Cash on hand at the end of the third quarter was $292 million relatively in line with the year-ago period and lower versus Q2 as we pay down $250 million of long-term notes that were due in September.
We continue to monitor the credit markets and we anticipate issuing notes in the near future given the current record low interest rate environment.
Let me now provide an update on Project Next Century.
We are pleased with the progress we are making at the West Hershey plant expansion and it remains on track.
The building is essentially complete and equipment is currently being installed.
Initial production line start up during the fourth quarter of 2011 with continued rollout and implementation during 2012.
The forecast for total pretax GAAP charges and non-recurring profit implementation costs remained at $140 million to $160 million.
During the quarter we recorded net pretax charges of $13.5 million for Project Next Century consisting mostly of accelerated depreciation.
By 2014 we continue to expect ongoing annual savings to be approximately $60 million to $80 million.
Now to summarize.
We are pleased with our third quarter and year-to-date results.
Our consumer-driven strategy and investments in global brand building continue to deliver the desired results.
As we did in the third quarter over the remainder of the year we plan to make incremental investments in our brands and business capabilities.
For the full year adjusted SM&amp;A excluding advertising is expected to increase greater than our previous estimates and full year advertising is estimated to be up high-single digits on a percentage basis versus the prior year.
This is greater than our previous estimate of mid-single digit percentage increase.
These additional investments will enable us to carry our marketplace momentum into the fourth quarter.
In addition Halloween has gotten off to a good start with solid greater than initial expectations.
As a result we expect 2011 net sales including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates to increase around 7% versus 2010.
Commodity markets remained volatile.
However we have visibility into our cost structure for the remainder of the year.
While we anticipate meaningfully higher input costs productivity and cost saving issues are in place and we expect full year 2011 adjusted gross margin to be about the same as last year.
In our strong year-to-date performance we continued to expect 2011 adjusted earnings per share-diluted to increase around 10%.
As we look to 2012 we'll continue to focus on our core brands and leverage Hershey's scale at retail in the U.S.
while working closely with retail partners to ensure achievements of our elasticity model.
Recall that our first season at higher price points will be Easter which is 2 weeks earlier than 2011.
In addition we'll continue our disciplined approach related to investments within key international markets.
Therefore our current expectation for 2012 is for net sales growth to be within our 3% to 5% long-term target.
While the spot prices of most key commodities have declined from the 2011 peak many are still trading at price levels greater than the 2-year average.
However we are gaining visibility into 2012 cost structure and will focus on preserving our margin structure.
While we anticipate higher input costs in 2012's price realization as well as productivity and cost-saving initiatives including incremental savings and Project Next Century are in place to help mitigate the impact of increased commodity costs.
As we all know the financial markets remain volatile.
And depending on where markets end the year pension expense could be a headwind in 2012.
However we would expect any charges to be noncash given our well-funded status.
To conclude based on our current assumptions and views we expect 2012 growth and earnings -- adjusted earnings per share-diluted to be within our 6% to 8% range consistent with our current long-term target.
We will now open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of David Palmer with UBS.
Research Division</strong> The retail inventory levels how do they look lately? I guess I'm really getting at do you see your sales tracking with what looks to be very healthy consumer takeaway numbers? Yes I would say yes David.
Our shipments are roughly in line with that consumption pattern and so we've not seen a change of what we consider good inventory levels at the trade.
Research Division</strong> And then going forward I guess that price elasticity that you talked about in this quarter -- I mean if we were to take a step back and look at consumer price elasticity and think of it that way how do you see that playing out in terms of that changing your volume momentum for that change in price realization? What do you think that price elasticity is? I mean are you referring to Q4? How we think about next year? Research Division</strong> For this year like how do you think it is indeed playing out because it doesn't look like from the consumer data that you're nearly having the price elasticity for instance you had in the previous price increases.
Yes.
If you look at how we had talked about this historically in models that even though all the way back to 2008 as you know we talked about it kind of being a one-for-one sort of relationship that current reported increase you would see a point of volume decline.
As we've revised our both models and experiences and we've mentioned this a couple of times as well it's really much closer to about a half in volume decline for a point of increase.
And then we continue to see that the pricing is -- it's being passed through faster following each of our experiences with recent price declines.
Then the other point I think that is important to think about and we're also learning from when some of the commodity cost inflation begin our investment levels and advertising in our brands were certainly significantly lower than it is today.
So I think reminding consumers why they participate in the category in the face of the news of pricing et cetera has really helped us.
So we think that's really been fundamental to the better conversion that we've seen over time.
Research Division</strong> And if I could just squeeze one more.
As far as the inflation you're expecting for 2012 any comments there? And then if there's even a feeling as to how the earnings growth for next year might be weighted back half first half that would be helpful.
Yes in terms of -- we said we're really expect today -- we do expect meaningful commodity cost inflation to continue from this year into next year.
Having said that we're very focused on our gross margin and we believe that maintain the gross margin structure is important to us.
We have a lot productivity programs next year.
We've got an episode fixed from Project Next Century as we bring some lines in.
It's a little early -- a little early for us at this stage to start providing any seasonalization to the earnings for next year.
But needless to say we do expect continued inflation.
But we also believe that we have good progress in place to help mitigate those.
Your next question comes from the line of Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> We've seen reports that you're setting up a supply chain and distribution collaboration with Ferrero here in the U.S.
Could you tell us a little bit more about the arrangement how that's going to work and the potential costs savings? Well I won't detail the specific cost savings piece of it.
Bert may talk about that within a more holistic basket.
But as we look at our overall distribution opportunities we look across the total CPG group for opportunities that we may be able to combine efforts.
As you know in China we have a joint asset with Lotte and as we were looking at building additional distribution capability.
And by the way this distribution facility will be in Canada but it will serve a broader market.
We found that we had similar needs.
It's pretty common in a number of other geographies where manufacturers go together for some of these noncompetitive types of things where you can get synergies via cost sharing et cetera.
And so that's really -- there's not a lot more to it than that.
That's really the complexion of what we're looking at with that particular project.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a quick follow-up.
Last quarter you mentioned that there might be some changes in how you participate in India.
Could you perhaps comment on how you're thinking developing on that? Well we continue to be very excited about India.
If you look at the combination -- and I'll talk a little bit about this -- is that the Indian market for us we have a joint venture with Godrej.
That business is doing well this year.
It's up versus previous year.
We've learned a lot.
We continue to be committed to the Indian market.
We're going to be assessing over time what's the best way for us to participate in India.
But right now our joint venture with Godrej is the way forward for us in India.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of questions on the top line.
I mean maybe I'm just not correctly understanding it.
But let's just talk about the category first.
The category I think you said off take was up like 8% or so and yet your sales are up 5%? And then Bert I think you talked about how you were shipping to consumption.
So is it that the retailers are taking greater price if what you're shipping in terms of volume is equal to what's being taken off at retail? I'm not exactly clear how these 2 figures kind of match up.
What we said was that the category in the quarter had performed at 4.5% and year-to-date around 4.4%.
So it is -- the category is tracking ahead of the 3% to 4% which we see historically.
So a little bit ahead of the 4%.
The 8% is the Hershey takeaway number.
And so obviously we're gaining share within the category about 1 point year-to-date and about 1.25 points.
And so what I'm referring to in terms of inventory levels across the different classes of trade.
And obviously you have some of the impacts of Halloween going in that we don't see a big change in inventory levels at the trade level and that we're shipping in approximately what consumption patterns are.
But the category itself is not the 8% number.
That's our number.
Research Division</strong> I'm talking about your takeaway.
Europe 8 or 9 at retail and your sales at revenue-to-revenue are up let's say 4 to 5? Because you got the international component which is going to be my next question.
But right so you were -- either retailers are taking higher pricing than you're putting through or the volume you're under shipping volume right? Yes and I think J.P.
did refer to that.
What we are seeing -- and I think I spoke to it.
I said if you look at the quarter net price realization was about 5.5 points.
We got a volume -- we had a point of volume decline and then about 0.5 point of FX to the positive.
So that's how we get to our 5.
But J.P.
did mentioned that we are seeing greater performance at convenience because within that 8% we were up almost 13%.
And we are seeing that price is something that the retailers are being more aggressive about so you're right about that point and I think we alluded to that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So volume for volume is roughly okay but the retailers are taking more pricing and that's why you're seeing greater dollar revenue growth at retail for your business versus what you're reporting.
Yes.
And the mix we think influences that.
Because while our total takeaways is around 8% convenience stores where we do see a lot of pricing coming through is almost 13%.
And king as an example was up 18% in conveniences part of that price mix equation.
Right.
So there is a mix benefit as well in terms of the channels.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow up.
On the sales that you mentioned for international you talked about I think Bert 25% growth and is that on the -- does that include Canada and export or whatever so that's like 15% to the business? It does not include Canada but it would include exports.
And markets -- some of our markets are export markets and -- but in Mexico Brazil and China we actually have production on the ground so that includes the focus market exports but not Canada.
Research Division</strong> So is it -- given that that's -- I have to imagine that's mostly volume.
Does that mean that your U.S.
volume was actually down let's call it 2 or 3? We didn't give an exact U.S.
number.
We did say 1 was the composite number.
And so -- yes but U.S.
would have been a little bit more than the 1 and the international numbers would have been positive volume.
Your next question comes from the line of David Driscoll with Citi Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
Bert wanted to go back to the 2012 commodity costs.
So you mentioned both in the press release and then in your prepared comments about the costs in comparison to the 2-year average.
You guys are always a little bit murky about how the commodity costs kind of flow through the system and how we should look at it.
This is I think the first time I've seen you like mention kind of a 2-year trailing look at where commodities were on the spot versus that historical basis.
Can you just expand upon why you choose that kind of a timeframe? How that flows into the company's thinking on commodity costs and then consequently pricing? Yes.
The reason we made that comparison David was more to put in perspective the fact that there has been some recent decline.
And so the spot market as you know ourselves and our competitors they have some degree of hedging in fact our 10-K says we could be anywhere from 3 to 24 months.
And so it was really only a reference point because commodities have come down as a basket but they still remain high.
And that was really the key message that they still remain high.
Cocoa has come off a bit but we see sugar prices -- even oil yesterday closed about $92 so energy prices remain high.
And so the message really for us was to put some perspective around the recent decline that yes there's been a recent decline but so on relative basis we have high commodity costs and they're quite volatile.
Even in today's market you've seen cocoa creep back up as the dollar weakens a bit against the euro.
So I think the real takeaway that we try to put across was that we're very gross margin focused and that we have good programs against those commodity cost increases.
Research Division</strong> Is it then correct to say that the recent declines are not beneficial to Hershey because of the hedging program? Meaning to say you'd already locked in a great amount at 2012 so don't get so excited about the recent declines because you won't see them.
Is that the right message? No that's really not the message.
Declines are always good so -- in any context.
We're just not trying to put any one-to-one relationship between the declines in any particular period.
That's all.
But declines are good in any case.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned headwinds.
You mentioned that in your prepared comments as well.
What do current rates suggest about the EPS headwinds from pensions? Can you give us a ballpark? No we're not giving any specifics on those.
The markets today are relatively flat.
And you would expect that our pension assumption has some return.
And so if they ended today we would have some impact.
I would say that it's still -- we still believe within that context that we will be within our 6 to 8 and it could go any way.
Could end the year up 10%.
In which case it may not be an issue at all but it could end down 10% in which case it might be a bigger issue.
But as of today it's relatively flat rate.
Our 6 to 8 still feels good.
Research Division</strong> So that's not a discount rate issue.
That's the return issue and how it's amortized over the life of the...
No it's both.
It's both.
The fact that the rates have come from roughly 5% to 4% it has a pretty significant impact.
Research Division</strong> Yes I would've thought that was the bigger one.
And then final question you mentioned the likelihood of a note issuance.
Can you talk about the size? And I believe that that's just incremental to the balance sheet so I would expect interest expense to rise upon the completion of a note offering.
Am I thinking correctly? I wouldn't figure that's an interest rate increase and no I'm not going to comment on the size.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I want to circle back to Eric's question because it sounded like on the back and forth the takeaway was -- that yes indeed retailers are pricing ahead of you and therefore margining up the category.
Is that what's really happening or is this just a factor of 2/3 of your shipments went out at an 8% to 9% price increase which is what we see in consumption data and 1/3 went out with 0 which has yet to pop up in the consumption data? Well I think that's probably a reasonable assumption to make that a higher percentage is going out at the higher price and that would be affecting also the mix that we would have forecasted for the quarter.
And then I come back to the fact that retailers seem to be converting price at retail faster than they had before.
The seasons of course are going to be a deal price.
So the good news is that the conversion is good especially on the instant consumables which have already taken the pricing and people are participating in the marketplace.
And then for me one of the most encouraging things around the pricing environment is the fact that king continues to do so well as consumers see it as a value and it's not an obstacle to participate in the category.
Research Division</strong> The king information's interesting and I think you said 18% in C-store.
I know last time you guys took price we saw a tailwind on that.
That was a nice margin boost.
But your margins remain sort of confoundingly lower than I would expect.
You gave us an inflation number of around 45 and prices around 83 million on that 5 4.
Just mathematically not even accounting for productivity that gets me to a margin number that's above where you came in.
Is there a mix effect? Is this maybe the international factor or are there expenses in the COGS line that are incremental or maybe haven't called out? No I wouldn't say that.
There is some mix as we grow more rapidly and internationally we said 25%.
It's not the same margin.
So I would -- that part would be true.
And in any case our margins we said would be flat versus last year.
We continue to believe that.
We continue to see sequential improvement.
I think we're down a bit over 100 basis points in the second quarter and about 20 this quarter.
We expect a further sequential improvement in the fourth quarter.
And so there is a lot of commodity inflation built into this year.
And while we do have strong productivity programs we expect to be about flat margin to the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Rob Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of quick questions.
First one is why not guide to the high end of your normal sales guidance for 2012? You've said today that you're seeing a better elasticity of demand relationship than you have historically.
You are taking market share.
You say that the category is performing quite well.
And now you have the international on top of it.
It seems like if anything -- you've also had 2 years where you have been above your range.
So it seems like we're going to have another year just like that.
And then secondly can you tell me is there any negative impact to your mix from the shift of consumers to king-sized items? And then also we noticed in the Nielsen data a lot of bagged items growing faster than your regular single serve.
Have you done the math on that? Well let me take the king-sized first.
So there's no negative impact to the growth of king from a margin standpoint.
And we'll provide additional perspective on how we're looking at 2012 when we get together the next time.
We've still got a couple of months of the year left.
We don't know what Halloween sell-through looks like yet although we feel very good about where Halloween is headed.
And we don't know how consumers are going to act through the holiday as they look at their total macroeconomic perspective.
So we feel very comfortable about the outlook of our business and we'll provide greater texture to that the next time we get together.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Feeney with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> When I look back over the past few quarters now looks like this consistent pattern of you guys are beating at the gross profit line and investing more at the SG&amp;A line.
I think particularly in advertising if you look at the past 2 or 3 years but the marketing and advertising this quarter and I guess do you reach a saturation point both as a category and a company where there's a diminishing marginal return to those investments and maybe you pocket some more of that? Or are there would -- are there other places to invest at the expense line as we look forward to 2012 that would impact the way you're going to talk about guidance? Jonathan let me talk about it in a little bit of a broader sense that may give you some perspective there.
I look over the 5-year plan that we have in place.
There's really 4 things that I'd like you to think about.
First of all we want to drive predictable profitable and sustainable growth in our North American business.
We continue to believe there's a lot of potential with our North American business.
We also want to deliver geographic expansion in the key markets we talked about.
And one of the ways you do that is by creating density in each of those markets around the organization economic density and the coverage that we need in our business.
And then we want to create and expand consumer preferred portfolios in each of those markets.
So in a lot of these markets our portfolio on some level is not as broad as we have the potential for it to be within our own existing portfolio and the new brands that we would be able to add to that.
And then the fourth thing that we're very focused on is building the people the processes and the capability to leverage the intellectual capital we have.
So what I feel really good about is this enables us to deliver a very strong foundation to be very consistent that we deliver the things that we say we're going to deliver and we create a company that has a better platform and foundation than the one we even have today.
It's as good as we feel about it.
And if you think about the potential of that story it makes our brands available to an incremental 1/3 of the world's population by focusing on only those key markets and building out our business there.
And as we do that it's going to change the mix of some of the investments we make from what we've done historically.
But if we do that in a thoughtful and mindful way we believe it's a very compelling boost for our company.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And I think the -- just one follow-up that I had.
The 8.7% retail takeaway numbers you give the IRI data correspond into that is 6.3% as I see it in sales and a 10-basis-point decline in volume generally given the mix shift.
Can you tell us what the volume component if you haven't them already of that 8.7% is? Yes I spoke to it earlier.
And you're talking about the quarter yes? Research Division</strong> Yes on the quarter.
The 12 week ended September 30.
Yes.
The 8.7% that J.P.
refer to was our custom database which would include Walmart.
And so that would be different than the syndicated FDMxC at 8.4%.
And then the volume impact in the quarter was the minus 1 point.
Research Division</strong> But that's shipment volume right? Yes yes.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could give us the volume component of that 8.7% the same way IRI gives us the volume component of the correspondent 6.3%.
Well I mean...
I was going to say -- Jonathan it's Mark.
Again J.P.
referenced how we look at the volume elasticity and -- I mean if you'll assume you got -- you assume that all gist on the pricing component of the business because Halloween has yet to show up in those numbers in a meaningful way.
And again just being liberal here for our discussion.
You'll assume that's all 9 points of price almost okay? Let's assume it's less than a one-for-one relieve volume to price relationship that staples group averages.
But it's not quite 0.5 to 1 so it's somewhere in between that.
Let me just add one additional piece of texture that may or may not help you on this but the only thing it was different in Q3 that if you go back over the last couple of years you've heard us talk a lot about how we needed to do better in the drug channel than we've been doing.
2 particular pieces of our business were not only in Q3 but as we begin to build a better base here going forward we've now -- I'll call it turned our business around a more positive results in the food channel.
It made significant strides in drug as well.
So if you look at the way the business is performing we've been performing well across channels.
We've really also benefited from a bit of a channel mix change as well as we do better and better in those particular channels.
So we're almost participating in those segments in a way that we haven't for quite some time.
Research Division</strong> Okay I get all that but -- and maybe it's because I've had like 6 Kit Kats this morning.
But I think the -- is it -- am I asking for a number you've already given us or you're not giving me the number? We didn't get into that level of specificity.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just a clarification on how pricing -- how the price increases flow through your P&amp;L.
I guess when -- after the -- you had disclosed or announced your price increase back in March that the I guess the impression or the commentary that you guys were making about how that would flow through your P&amp;L was essentially that there wouldn't be much in the I guess second and third quarters because of the mix.
And it seems like it's come in better than what we had modeled and better than what you would expect it.
So I guess one thing I'm trying to understand is how much of that is just that the mix has been different.
You've done better in single bar and in convenience store how much of it has been that you haven't had the support the price increases much with promotions.
Meaning your net -- you've been net more effective.
You've net seen more of the pricing flow through your P&amp;L.
It's certainly did more about the mix than the -- we can give us supporting the price increase.
And so think of Halloween in the third quarter if that's the old prices and mechanically from accounting perspective the way that would work is that between gross and net we would have a higher trade promotion number that supports that price increase.
But it's more mix than it is that we're spending less to promote -- to protect the prices if that's your question.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So relative to what you were expecting going into the quarter your mix was just much different than you thought it was going to be? Well the mix was different yes and you know part of that you can see in the almost 13% takeaway in convenience.
J.P.
also talked about drug stores which also has a decent amount of consumable on the front end.
So it would certainly be mix that will be important.
And then within the context of that one-to-one of historical CPG price conversion and the 0.5 point that we talked about.
Mark mentioned we're somewhere in between there so a little bit better than we anticipated.
Research Division</strong> And then with retailers pricing up or taking more price at the shelf and being successful with it.
Is there any chance that on your seasonal items is this -- I guess as we go through Halloween and the holidays that we'll see more -- some of that as well that if they've been successful pricing on -- raising prices on the nonseasonal that it makes sense to maybe go up on the seasonal as well? I mean that's not something that's predictable for us.
Obviously retailers set their own prices.
What we do is provide the price protection because we've already agreed on the demand equation 6 8 9 10 months ago on a particular season.
So that could happen but again J.P.
may want to speak to some of the programs.
As I look at some of the pricing and all that we're seeing in the market it really looks as though that the prices are the prices we would have anticipated because we had not taken up prices on Halloween.
So I don't think that's an area where people are taking pricing earlier.
I think they're really looking at it as a good destination for the consumers.
They want to have a proactive pricing.
It's competitive.
And so you wouldn't really see against the Halloween promotion any kind of pricing inflation.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Serotta with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Clearly your overall category growth has been stronger than historical averages.
And you also alluded to it being stronger than what you're seeing in some substitute categories like salty snacks.
I'm wondering whether you could give some color as to why you think you're outperforming salty snacks and what's going on in some of these substitute categories or your category that's enabling that? Well I think what I would say is that as we move through the last couple of years with broad economic pressure on the consumer our category has really on some level benefited from the fact that it's an accessible indulgence.
And rather than contrast things against cookies crackers et cetera.
I just think that our category participates in this kind of environment almost at a higher level than it does on a regular basis because you pick up business from people who maybe have left something else.
They still want to feel good.
They know that it's something that's within an arm's reach of desire.
We have broad-based availability for our products similar to some of those other categories.
But I think this is just one of the real magic benefits of this category is that it's accessible.
It's affordable.
Chocolate is one of the most business -- frankly the most affordable country in the world on a cost per pound that participate in the category.
And I think that's as important as anything.
And then remember we have ubiquitous distribution.
So as we talked about being within an arm's reach of desire we're in the front end of the store near the checkouts or at the counters and a lot of places.
And then the convenience store businesses continue to do very very well.
And then one of the things -- one of the dynamics we've seen there is some people had pressure on not filling their tank and making multiple trips per week versus -- or maybe they're making one and filling their entire take.
They still seem to be going in the store.
And we've also benefited from that.
So that's really the color commentary I would give that versus trying to contrast us versus 2 or 3 other segments.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Dickerson with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> Just a couple quick questions.
So I hate to beat the dead horse again but back to the question on the takeaway of the 8.7% I think you said it was 8.4% in FDMxC channels? And I mean what we're seeing in the 4 channels though is that volumes were actually still a little bit up in the quarter.
So if that's the case I mean does that imply then that volumes could have been a little bit pressured at Walmart? Or are we just missing something? Walmart was fantastic in that number.
The 8.7% is with Walmart.
LLC</strong> Right.
But the 8.4% that you mentioned.
8 4 is the FDMxC.
That excludes Walmart.
The 8 7 includes Walmart.
LLC</strong> Right.
I'm just saying we actually look at the 4 channels.
And the 4 channels that we're looking at show volumes up a little bit.
So that would -- I guess the question is if there were any volume pressure in that 8.7% number we're seeing and that would imply that the volume pressure would not be in FDMxC it would be in Walmart.
I'm just trying to get a little color on it.
I think -- we're not going to talk about any specific retail volumes.
But I think in total we continue to feel very good about the Q3 trends and the areas of issue.
LLC</strong> Okay fair enough.
I'll leave it at that.
And then another question back on interest expense.
You said earlier that you -- that we shouldn't look at the potential credit raise as an increase in interest expense now.
With rates where they are it could also mean a decrease in interest expense as we get into 2012.
Is that credit raise factored in already into the 6% to 8% EPS growth for next year? Yes in terms of what I mentioned is that we paid down the $250 and we're looking at the credit markets we like the current rates and that there's certainly potential to reissue.
That would be neutral to next year.
Your next question comes from the line of Thilo Wrede with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First I'll ask a question about your new products -- revenues from new products.
Can you tell us what the revenue contribution was from new products during the quarter? And now that you're about to lap the minis and drops introduction what do you expect for the next few quarters? Sure.
First of all let me go back and anchor us in our overall objectives and that is we get about 1 point of our growth algorithm from innovation.
Certainly in 2011 we're well ahead of that.
We're very pleased with the innovation stream that we have in the pipeline.
What we're doing is probably differently from the path is where I think that category in many ways is focused on just introducing a number of items.
I think we're far more consumer-centric than we were before.
And when we have the innovation that's working hard for us we want to make sure that we continue to invest in that in year 2 and year 3.
So we're very comfortable and I think our retail partners here are pleased with the innovation stream that we have.
We do have new things that we're introducing it.
In the fourth quarter we will be lapping the introduction of both minis and drops and we won't have in the fourth quarter the same innovation contribution that we did in 2010.
And then we believe we have a good pipeline of products that enable us to continue to deliver against that growth algorithm going forward.
I think there's going to be some years we do better than that.
Certainly this is the last couple of that that's been true.
And there's going to be others that we are about on that pace and that's why we talk about it that way.
Our goal is not about quantity but it's about quality and ensuring that they have net contribution as after cannibalization to our business.
So when we talk about those numbers that's not a gross number of new things selling within the year but it's really about sticky innovation that's additive to both ourselves and retailers.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But can you give us an idea if the new products innovation contributed -- how much more contributed than the target 1% during the quarter? Well I'm not going to give the exact contribution level but I can tell you we're very very pleased and it was well above what all of our bases testing and forecasting would have told us.
So we're -- we just feel really good about it and rather than break that out.
I would leave it at that.
We have innovation coming in June of next year that we're excited about that we think will also be good news for us.
We haven't introduced that in the marketplace yet.
We've certainly gotten some retailer input during the development phase.
But you'll see us back in the middle of the summer with some things that we'll be taking to retailers.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that is helpful.
One more question maybe on the retail takeaway.
You said that the retailers' priced higher than you actually price.
Did volumes for retailers were therefore lower than what you saw for your own shipment volume? I think what we're really saying is that the timing of when pricing is happening in the marketplace seems to have changed over the historical reference points.
Because with all of the broad level of pricing that's happened in the market and with all the broad commodity basket inflation I think what's happening is that retailers are taking that pricing maybe sooner than it would have happened historically.
And therefore we're seeing that passthrough.
That's really the effect.
I don't think anybody is necessarily taking pricing beyond what's being passed through from manufacturers.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is the timing -- but does that mean that there's also timing issue about the volume impact of this pricing? No.
We believe that as we look at the conversion modeling that we've done it continues to be on track versus what we've said.
And then we said it's moved from broad stables number of what's historically been a one-to-one effect to really a 1 to much closer to 0.5 effect in terms of pricing volume ratio.
Yes Phil.
And that's what's built into our forecasts so we would expect the volume trends to actually improve going forward especially here into the fourth quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Duvick with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Quick question on the balance sheet.
Just with respect to financial leverage obviously your leverage is lower now since you paid off the note but it's been coming down the last couple of years.
So as you look at the credit markets can you tell us what you're looking at in terms of how much you may look to issue? Is it -- is there a leverage ratio or is there a credit rating? And is that coming from the management team or the board or a combination? Yes I would say that the -- let me start with your latter point and I'll work back to your initial question.
Certainly the capital structure of the company is ultimately a board level decision.
Now management has a view and we certainly inform the board what we think is the appropriate position to take.
We think of it less in terms of a debt-to-equity or a particular metric although clearly you have to pay attention to those with the rating agencies.
But we think about more in terms of the desired credit rating.
And we're an A1P1 issuer.
We like the A credit rating.
We've talked in the past about with strategically for M&amp;A purposes would you come off those ratings.
We said that for something that was strategic and transformational you would.
You'd want to see a clear path back.
And so right now we're at about 1.5 in terms of debt-to-equity.
And we paid down the bond but we're looking at the credit market to see if it's not an appropriate time given the interest rate environment to get back into the marketplace.
So it's more about the credit rating and absolutely to your point it is ultimately a board level decision.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up little bit on Rob Moscow's question on guidance.
When you look back your initial guidance for both 2010 and '11 you pointed to 6% to 8%.
And then you finished or will finish healthily above that.
Look back to 2009 you got it to below 6% to 8% initially and you finished well above that.
And now you're guiding to that 6% to 8% range again for next year.
So given your history why should we not believe that you're being fairly conservative? I appreciate you don't want to give a lot of detail on that today.
But any insights into the thoughts on what's some of the general pushes and pulls there would be helpful that maybe we're not thinking about.
Just something on the tax line or is it just something in the general market for confectionery items.
I know I'm fishing here.
Just hoping for a little nibble.
Yes.
In terms of the guidance what we've said in the past was that the 3% to 5% 6% to 8% gives us the flexibility in terms of investment posture.
And we've increased some of the -- increasingly have been investing more not that just in the U.S.
but outside of the U.S.
And given the scale differences there are different margin structures in non-U.S.
markets.
The guidance around -- last year I think around this time we did give guidance for around the 3% to 5% 6% to 8%.
And as the fourth quarter ended and we had more visibility into the year we did change to sort of the upper end of those ranges.
And we gave that indication early in the year.
And so our intent would be somewhat similar.
And as we see the year come to a close as we get a better read on next year whether it's cost basket wise or how we see our sell throughs on an important season like a Halloween and a holiday that we will provide further detail and further color around how we feel within those ranges.
So I understand the point in terms of being more specific.
For us it's really time of year.
It gives us the flexibility to invest buying our business.
We think we do that in a disciplined way.
And we want to be predictable and to the extent that we can manage our business within those ranges.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one more brief question.
Can you talk a little bit about currency? I don't think you mentioned this yet.
Forgive me if you did.
How it affects right now given spot rates your top line and margins next year? Yes.
The currency markets in the first let's call it -- certainly the first half of the year we saw that the dollar was weakening.
We saw somewhat of reversal of that as you know in the third quarter mostly precipitated by concerns around Europe obviously in flight to safety.
And then we've seen that tail off a little bit again to where the dollar's started to weaken again.
And so right now we would anticipate that we have less exposure obviously than some of our competitors in the international market.
And yet this year we've seen about a 1 point benefit from FX less so in the third quarter.
We think that that trend could continue in terms of a flat-to-down dollar.
And so -- but it cuts both ways.
On the one hand while it may provide a better top line there is some commodity inflation that occurs from a weaker dollar because of the commodity markets just straight in U.S.
dollars.
So it's not that it drives you in one direction.
It really depends on how much commodity and prices are influenced by lower dollars versus the benefit that you get from translation.
Research Division</strong> Interesting.
I would have thought you had suggested that currency would be a little bit of a headwind given spot rates into next year but doesn't sound like you're saying that.
Well I guess it's a little bit unpredictable.
You have to believe to some degree that the flight to safety element stays in place versus whether people can be convinced that the European markets can take care of themselves and then the focus may get right back to the U.S.
deficit.
So we don't think there's going to be a dramatic change at this point.
But should you know needless to say it affects you both ways translation wise and unfortunately commodity wise.
Your last question comes from the line of John Baumgartner with Telsey Advisory Group.
I just wanted to ask about your thoughts on estimate expense for 2012.
Maybe this relates back to John's question a bit but in the U.S.
specifically do you feel you're at a place right now or maybe you're comfortable at the sales force given you've continued share gains here or is it more opportunity maybe going forward to either increase the size of the sales force or at least your hours spent within each store next year? I think that from a coverage standpoint we feel very good about where we're at the results we're getting and we probably have a more flexible sales organization today given some of the technology investments that we've made and we've had in the past.
So I do think we're at a good place and certainly over the last couple of years where we thought we could benefit from incremental coverage we've done that.
As the same time as I talked about earlier as we think about building density around our coverage in key markets we want to continue to be able to be flexible to do that.
So I think what you'll see that may be a bit different is that we build out our distribution in China as an example where our business is growing very very nicely in what is a growing category.
We'll continue to be making certainly investments there as well as couple of other places.
So again I think going back to driving a predictable profitable and sustainable business in North America we feel good that we're doing that.
And then the second goal that we have around delivering geographical expansion in key markets to be places where we make investments around coverage and capability.
J.P.
thinking about the retailers that we kind of merchandise in the confectionery category here do you tend to see that we're seeing increased shelf base for the category? That you're more end caps more free standing displays than historically? I mean is there a way to think about the extent to which retailers might be using the category more of the traffic driver or capacity.
One of the things that's been clear over the last couple of years 2011 was certainly no exception is that because the category has performed well it's been one of the most attractive categories in the entire box.
And so we've benefited from that.
I think where we've seen some retailers who have gone through periods where they said well we may do less of this and more of something else.
I think the category has really proven itself there.
One example I'd give you which I find really interesting and compelling is that as we've done some of our IDP work we work with one of our large retailers and we realize that while they were doing a really good job in gum and mint on what we would call a snack grab trip mission They weren't doing so well in the overall it's a consumable candy bar segment.
So we put together a cross-functional team.
We worked with them at their headquarters.
We used our center of excellence group here and we did a number of pieces and research as well as some testing.
And now as we've implemented those results of the test and the way we think is the right way to go about it.
And if you look at the total instant consumable categories these are your category results.
We're not talking specifically just our brands.
But in the year 1 roll out of that in these clusters of stores.
The sales increase for the category is up 15%.
And as we've gotten now into the second round of expansion again taking this IDP approach to getting very specific consumer insights and trip missions and combining those the results were up almost 20%.
So you're now -- it's an [indiscernible] to engage further around specific trip missions where we take our consumer insights their shopper data we look in store clustering and really are able to move the levers across individual and unique stores.
So the interest in the category for our retailers continues to be very high and the performance of the category certainly has allowed all of the store and things that we think are good for all of our mutual businesses.
Great.
And then Bert last question.
Thinking about your input costs for 2012 you mentioned in the press release the 2-year average.
Can you say at all whether you may have been buying below market for some of your input costs in 2011 at all? Because I feel like dairy is usually the wildcard here and that seems to be tracking deflationary year-on-year for 2012.
So is there anything somewhere in your hedge basket or in terms of your source that could maintain that this cost push in the new year.
Yes we really don't talk about our hedging programs or how far out we are and so on and so forth.
And a part of that obviously is some of our competitors report any of that information.
Needless to say we have an active hedging program and we take a view on there's value in the marketplace and look at all the things that you expect us to look at whether it's fundamental supply and demand or really fits along the technical factors given all the financial money out there in terms of the asset class.
Dairy you're quite right.
It's the one that that's least hedge-able and always presents the most uncertainty.
The really -- the message that we wanted to put across was that this year has been an inflationary year for commodities and next year will be as well but that we do think we have the right programs and our focused on the margin will continue to be just as strong next year as it has been this year.
Okay.
Well Thank you for joining us for today's conference call.
Matt Miller and myself will be available all day to answer any follow up questions you may have.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Laura and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Hershey Fourth Quarter 2011 Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Mark Pogharian Head of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you Laura.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the Hershey Company's Fourth Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
J.P.
Bilbrey President and CEO; Bert Alfonso Executive Vice President CFO and Chief Administrative Officer; and I will represent Hershey on this morning's call.
We welcome those of you listening via the webcast.
Let me remind everyone listening that today's conference call may contain statements which are forward-looking.
These statements are based on current expectations which are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements because of factors such as those listed in this morning's press release and in our 10-K for 2010 filed with the SEC.
If you have not seen the press release a copy is posted on our corporate website in the Investor Relations section.
Included in the press release is a consolidated balance sheet and a summary of consolidated statements of income prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Within the Notes section of the press release we have provided adjusted reconciliations of select income statement line items quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.
As we said within the Note the company uses these non-GAAP measures as key metrics for evaluating performance internally.
These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP.
Rather the company believes the presentation of earnings excluding certain items provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations.
We will discuss fourth quarter results excluding net pretax charges of $27.7 million which are primarily related to Project Next Century.
Our discussion of 2011 full-year results exclude net pretax charges of $32.1 million primarily associated with Project Next Century and a gain on sale of non-core trademark licensing rights recorded in the third quarter.
Our discussion of any future projections will also exclude the impact of these net charges and non-service-related pension expenses.
With that out of the way let me turn the call over to J.P.
Thanks Mark.
I'm pleased with Hershey's fourth quarter and full-year financial and marketplace results which represent a solid end to another good year.
We accomplished our 2011 objectives while growing adjusted EPS 10.6% our third consecutive year of a double-digit percentage increase.
We achieved this in what was again a very challenging environment that included global economic uncertainty and difficult consumer conditions commodities spot market price increases and volatility and the implementation and execution of a major price increase.
The implementation of our March 30 price increase continues.
We're analyzing conversion closely.
And on the portion of the business where the shelf price reflects the increase were tracking as expected.
The speed of conversion varies by channel and is consistent with what we've experienced historically and versus our modeling.
Net volume elasticity on these pack types is in line with our expectations and better than the historical staples group average.
As we look to Easter the first season where price points will be higher as expected retailers are working collaboratively with our headquarter and in-store sales associates.
The seasons Easter Halloween and holiday are important to Hershey as well as retailers as it brings consumers into the store.
We believe we have the right mix of seasonal-specific advertising coupons and programming lined up to help consumers adjust to the new price points.
As had been the case all year in channels measured by syndicated data the CMG category that's candy mint and gum outpaced the historical 3% to 4% category growth rate increasing 4.5%.
CMG also outpaced other snack alternatives in 2011 again such as salty snacks cookies and crackers which all grew less than 3%.
Overall confectionery continues to grow driven by a balance of pricing and investment in the category in the form of both innovation and advertising.
As a result in 2012 we would expect CMG category growth will be above the historical annual growth rate of 3% to 4%.
For the full-year 2011 net sales increased 7.2% and was balanced between volume and net price realization.
In the fourth quarter net sales were primarily driven by pricing.
We're especially pleased that the volume sequentially improved from last quarter slightly greater than our expectations and increased about 0.4 points.
In terms of Hershey's marketplace performance for the 12 and 52 weeks ending December 31 2011 per our custom database in channels that account for over 80% of our retail business total Hershey's CMG retail consumer takeaway was up a solid 6.5% and 7.8%.
As a reminder these channels include food drug mass including Wal-Mart and convenience stores.
Within food drug mass and convenience or FDMxC here excluding Wal-Mart the CMG category also continues to grow.
For the 12 and 52 weeks ending December 31 2011 the CMG category increased 4.4% and 4.5%.
Hershey's FDMxC retail takeaway for the fourth quarter and full year was 6% and 7.5% respectively.
As a result our market share increased by 0.4 points in the fourth quarter and 0.8 points for the full-year 2011.
For the overall Halloween and holiday seasons as expected in Q4 FDMx total combined seasonal category retail sales were up.
Specifically Q4 seasonal category sales increased 4.2%.
Hershey Q4 seasonal retail takeaway was up 5.8% resulting in a 0.5-point market share gain.
For the full-year 2011 in the food class-of-trade the CMG category grew 3.2%.
Hershey retail takeaway for the year was up 4% generating a share gain in this channel of 0.2 points.
Fourth quarter food class-of-trade CMG category growth was 2.5% less than the category's historical growth rate.
This was primarily due to continued weakness in the gum category which was down 5.1% in this channel.
Hershey food channel CMG retail takeaway in the fourth quarter was up 3.1% driven by solid non-chocolate candies.
Turning now to the C-store class-of-trade where Hershey continues to leverage its customer relationships and the only coast-to-coast in-store sales force in the category.
In Q4 Hershey C-store takeaway was up again and has increased for 15 consecutive quarters.
Specifically for the 12 and 52 weeks ended December 31 Hershey retail takeaway was up 11.9% and 11.1% respectively resulting in a market gain of 1 full point in the quarter and 1.4 points for the full year.
Similar to last quarter these gains were driven by price realization net volume gains due to king size growth and strong in-store merchandising.
In Q4 Hershey C-store chocolate and non-chocolate takeaway was up 12% and 15.5% respectively.
These gains were driven by pricing core brand advertising in-store merchandising and programming including the Reese's NCAA Football Perfect Seat and the Ice Breakers Frost New Year's Eve in Las Vegas promotions.
In the drug class-of-trade Hershey CMG retail takeaway was up 3.4% for the quarter resulting in a share gain of 0.2 points.
Similar to last quarter our drug channel retail takeaway increased in every segment.
Our non-chocolate candy mint and gum performance was especially strong.
The Ice Breakers mint platform particularly Ice Breakers Frost products continues to do well and helped drive a mint share gain within the drug class-of-trade of 2.3 points.
Ice Breaker ice cubes bottle packs also had another good quarter in drugstores.
As a result we gained gum market share in the drug channel in the fourth quarter and for the full year.
As we look to 2012 we have many exciting products promotions programs and merchandising in place across all channels including various NCAA basketball and football promotions a Reese's and Coca-Cola promotion sponsorship of the upcoming Avengers and Spiderman movies and the launch of many new products to include Hershey's Milk Chocolate with Almond Pieces Jolly Rancher Crunch 'N Chew Rolo Minis Ice Breakers Duo mints in both strawberry and raspberry flavors and Hershey's Bliss produced with cocoa that is certified by the Rainforest Alliance.
Additionally full-year advertising expense for the total company will increase low double digits on a percentage basis versus last year supporting these new product launches and core brands in both the U.S.
and our international markets and new advertising campaigns on Jolly Rancher and the Rolo brands.
I'm also excited about our acquisition of Brookside Foods.
This was an opportunistic bolt-on that allows us to expand our portfolio and capabilities into the subsegment of chocolate-covered fruit juice pieces.
Specifically Brookside pairs dark chocolate with exotic fruit juice centers such as goji acai blueberry and pomegranate that deliver the benefits of flavanols and antioxidants.
Brookside has increased sales at a compound annual growth rate over the last 3 years of about 20%.
As a result they're approaching the limits of our manufacturing capability.
Therefore in 2012 we'll be adding additional manufacturing capabilities that we're targeting to have up and running by the end of the year.
We look forward to building the Brookside brand in the U.S.
and Canada and leveraging Hershey's scale at retail.
As we entered 2012 we remain focused on our core U.S.
business where we continue to bring news variety and excitement to the category.
Our U.S.
new product launches will be supported with in-store promos and merchandising as well as advertising which will increase meaningfully year-over-year.
Our solid position in the U.S.
marketplace continues to give us the flexibility to invest in key international markets where we're gaining momentum.
In 2011 outside of the U.S.
and Canada we invested in our go-to-market capabilities and increased advertising 20% to 25% on a percentage basis versus last year.
We expect international advertising to increase about the same amount in 2012.
Our businesses in the focus markets of Mexico China Brazil and India had a good 2011.
Combined reported sales growth in these countries was about 25% in 2011.
As we enter 2012 we have a solid plan that will enable us to maintain our momentum in China.
And in China we'll increase the launch select sugar confectionery products that will leverage our in-market capabilities and we expect our R&amp;D facility to be operational in Q4.
In Mexico we'll continue our approach of gaining further distribution within the traditional trade.
And in Brazil we'll benefit from expansion with our partner Bauducco.
Therefore if our business outside the U.S.
and Canada continues to grow at the current organic rates we'll achieve our target of $1 billion in sales by the year-end 2014.
This would be about a year earlier than our original 2015 objective.
We have a solid balance sheet that enables us to pursue potential acquisition targets while also investing in organic opportunities.
We remain focused on all of our markets and we'll continue to make the necessary investments to ensure that we're positioned to grow our brands and manage challenges.
The power of our brands and our ability to execute in the marketplace gives us confidence that the Hershey Company will be able to deliver achievable predictable and consistent earnings and cash flow growth.
As such I'm happy to announce that we increased our dividend 10%.
As we look to the future our financial position allows us to be flexible in our approach to creating value for all of our Hershey shareholders.
Now to wrap up.
I'm pleased with the way the confectionery category our retail partners and Hershey continue to perform.
In 2012 new products advertising and in-store merchandising and programming put us in a position to deliver another strong year of net sales and earnings growth.
Therefore excluding the Brookside acquisition we expect volume to be up for the full-year 2012 resulting in net sales growth of about 5% to 7%.
We have good visibility into our full-year cost structure.
And despite higher input costs in 2012 we expect adjusted gross margin to increase about 75 basis points driven by productivity and cost savings as well as net price realization.
Therefore we've increased our full-year adjusted earnings per share diluted outlook and including the change in the reporting of pension costs we expect adjusted EPS to increase 9% to 11%.
I'll now turn it over to Bert who will provide some additional financial detail.
Thank you J.P.
and good morning everyone.
Net sales and adjusted earnings per share diluted from operations for the full-year 2011 exceeded the initial ranges we communicated at the beginning of last year.
Solid efforts by sales marketing operations and finance resulted in a good retail execution and another year of market share gains.
Overall we're pleased with our financial results and U.S.
marketplace performance as well as the progress we've made in key international markets.
Fourth quarter consolidated net sales of $1.57 billion increased 5.7% versus the prior year.
As expected the increase was driven primarily by net price realization benefit of 5.9%.
In addition volume sequentially improved 0.4 points from last quarter slightly greater than our expectations.
New product introductions in the U.S.
and international markets along with seasonal volume gains were partially offset by core volume declines in line with our price elasticity models.
The impact of unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates in the quarter was about 0.6 points.
Fourth quarter adjusted earnings per share diluted of $0.70 increased 15% primarily due to price realization supply chain productivity and lower advertising which more than offset the impact of higher input costs and additional marketing-related investments.
For the full year net sales increased 7.2% or 6.9% on a constant currency basis.
And we're balanced between volume and net price realization leading to adjusted earnings per share of $2.82 an increase of 10.6% versus last year.
J.P.
already provided details related to our marketplace performance.
So I will focus on a review of P&amp;L and balance sheet starting with gross margin.
During the fourth quarter adjusted gross margin was 41.7%.
While we achieved our productivity and cost savings goals in the quarter adjusted gross margin decreased 50 basis points as productivity and net price realization were more than offset by higher input and supply chain costs.
This is a greater decline than previously expected.
Specifically greater-than-expected fourth quarter volume requirements resulted in higher commodity costs than we had forecasted.
For the fourth quarter and full year total input costs were unfavorable about $45 million and $150 million.
In addition the impacts from year-end LIFO inventory and higher discounts and allowances were greater than our previous estimates.
The higher discounts and allowances primarily reflected a packaging change in our full chocolate packaged candy presentation as we swapped out harvesting packaging and substituted with additional Halloween-focused packaging which did not resonate as well with consumers.
For the full-year 2011 adjusted gross margin was 42.4% versus 42.8% in 2010 a decline of 40 basis points.
Higher net price realization and productivity gains were more than offset by higher input costs.
Fourth quarter adjusted EBIT increased 8.9% resulting in an adjusted EBIT margin of 16.4% a 50-basis-point improvement versus last year as lower advertising expense more than offset go-to-market and other employee-related costs.
In Q4 advertising declined 13% versus last year.
However our on-air presence was strong as the fourth quarter of 2010 included a significant step-up investment.
The decline was slightly greater than our earlier estimate as we shifted spending to invest in global selling capabilities and our Insights Driven Performance initiative.
As a result advertising expense for the full year increased about 6%.
Adjusted EBIT for the year increased 8.3% with adjusted EBIT margin up 20 basis points to 17.9% from 17.7%.
The increase was driven by solid net sales growth partially offset by higher input and supply chain costs and investments in SM&amp;A.
Now let me provide a brief update on our international business.
Our international markets outside of the U.S.
and Canada generated more meaningful sales growth during the quarter.
Excluding Canada international fourth quarter reported net sales increased double digits on a percentage basis versus last year driven by our focus markets Mexico China Brazil and India.
On a constant currency basis partially driven by seasonality in gifting fourth quarter net sales in Brazil increased more than 40% about 30% in China and 15% in Mexico.
For the full-year 2011 net sales in our businesses outside of the U.S.
and Canada increased close to 25%.
Our commitment to investing in these markets continues to drive solid top line growth enabling our brands to gain momentum and greater recognition among consumers.
Fourth quarter interest expense decreased coming in at $21.3 million versus $27.6 million in the prior period reflecting the bond tender offer costs in the fourth quarter of 2010.
For the year interest expense was in line with expectations totaling $92.2 million versus $96.4 million a year ago.
In 2012 we expect higher interest expense of approximately $95 million to $105 million primarily due to higher interest rates in some of our international businesses and increases in the company's finance lease obligations.
The adjusted tax rate for the fourth quarter was 32.2% down 40 basis points versus year ago due to an increase in domestic production as well as a mix of income among our various U.S.
and international businesses.
For the full year the tax rate was 34.8% down 40 basis points versus a year ago and within the range of our previous estimate.
In 2012 we expect the tax rate to be about the same as the 2011 annual rate.
However the rate will be about 36% in Q1 and 2 and about 34% in Q3 and Q4.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 weighted average shares outstanding on a diluted basis were 229.1 million versus 230.8 million shares in 2010 leading to adjusted EPS of $0.70 per share diluted from operations an increase of 14.8% versus year ago.
For the year shares outstanding were 229.9 million versus approximately 230.3 million shares in 2010.
Adjusted EPS diluted for the year was $2.82 an increase of 10.6%.
Before moving on to the balance sheet and cash flow I'd like to share some details regarding a change in our pension cost disclosures in 2012.
Similar to a number of other S&amp;P 500 companies we're going to exclude non-service-related pension expenses in our defined benefit pension plans from adjusted earnings.
These non-service-related expenses include the amortization of actuarial gains and losses and interest on participants' balances which are offset by expected earnings on pension assets.
Such expenses can vary significantly from year-to-year based on actuarial assumptions asset performance and interest rates.
We believe that excluding these costs and including only service-related costs better reflects the ongoing operating costs to our business given the well-funded status of our plans that have been closed to new entrants since 2008.
As a result we'll exclude them from adjusted earnings beginning in 2012.
On this basis 2011 and 2010 full-year adjusted earnings per share would have been $0.01 and $0.02 higher respectively.
In 2011 the actual return on pension plan assets was below our assumptions and interest rates declined resulting in higher non-service-related pension expenses in 2012.
Therefore our reported outlook reflects non-service-related pension expenses of $19 million or $0.05 per share diluted.
This amount is excluded from our 2012 adjusted earnings outlook.
For your modeling purposes details reflecting this change from 2006 to 2011 are available on the company's website within the Investor Relations section.
Let me also note that going forward the company will exclude the impact of M&amp;A-related deal costs from its adjusted earnings per share diluted.
We believe excluding these will provide investors a better understanding of the underlying profitability of the business.
Therefore our reported outlook of $2.79 to $2.89 per share diluted for 2012 includes nonrecurring acquisition closing and integration costs related to the Brookside acquisition of $0.04 to $0.05 per share diluted.
Now turning to the balance sheet and the cash flow.
At the end of the year net trading capital increased $115 million versus last year due to an increase in inventory of $115 million resulting primarily from Project Next Century production transition.
Accounts receivable was up $9 million and remains very current.
Accounts payable also increased about $9 million.
In terms of other specific cash flow items total company capital expenditures including software were $82 million in Q4 and $348 million for the full year.
These include Project Next Century capital expenditures of $24 million in Q4 and $179 million for the full year.
In 2012 we expect ongoing CapEx to be $215 million to $225 million excluding Project Next Century capital additions that are expected to be an additional $65 million to $70 million.
Therefore the total CapEx estimate for the company is $280 million to $295 million in 2012.
Depreciation and amortization was $58 million in the fourth quarter.
This includes accelerated depreciation related to Product Next Century of approximately $12 million.
Adjusted operating depreciation and amortization was $47 million in the fourth quarter.
For the full-year 2011 depreciation and amortization expense was $216 million of which accelerated depreciation and amortization was $33 million.
Therefore adjusted operating depreciation and amortization was $183 million.
In 2012 we are forecasting total adjusted operating depreciation and amortization of about $195 million to $205 million.
Dividends paid during the quarter were $76 million bringing the full-year total to $304 million.
During the fourth quarter approximately $27 million of our common shares were repurchased to replace shares issued in connection with stock option exercise.
We did not acquire any stock in the fourth quarter related to the $250 million outstanding repurchase program.
Cash on hand at year-end was $694 million down $191 million versus year ago due primarily to the aforementioned inventory increase along with higher capital expenditures and stock option repurchases.
As we exit 2011 we are well-positioned to manage the capital needs of the business.
Now let me update on Project Next Century program.
We are pleased with the progress we're making on the West Hershey plant expansion which remains on track.
The building is essentially complete with the majority of equipment now installed.
The startup of multiple production lines began during the fourth quarter and continues to roll out and implement [indiscernible] as expected throughout 2012.
The forecast for total project pretax debt charges and nonrecurring project implementation costs is $150 million to $160 million.
By 2014 we expect ongoing annual savings to be approximately $65 million to $80 million.
These figures are essentially the same as previously communicated.
Please see the note in Appendix 1 in today's press release for further details.
Let me close by providing some context on our 2012 outlook starting with some details on the Brookside Foods acquisition.
On January 19 2012 we successfully completed the acquisition and established a project management office to facilitate the integration of the business.
If youve tasted the Brookside products I'm sure you'll agree theyre great-tasting snacks with a strong  and a strong addition to the Hershey's portfolio.
Hershey will invest to grow the brand in the U.S.
and Canada as well as international markets.
In 2012 we'll focus on integration adding additional manufacturing capacity and market research.
Therefore in 2012 we expect Brookside to generate sales of approximately $90 million at current exchange rates and be neutral to our adjusted earnings.
As J.P.
outlined we have initiatives in place that we believe will drive net sales growth across our businesses in 2012.
We have planned merchandising and programming events throughout the year and plan to work closely with retail customers and monitor brand performance given the higher price points for seasonal products.
We expect 2012 advertising to increase low double digits on a percentage basis versus the prior year supporting new product launches in core brands in both the U.S.
and in international markets.
We'll also invest in new advertising campaigns for the Jolly Rancher and Rolo brands.
We're confident of our plans and excluding Brookside expect volume to be up for the year resulting in net sales growth of 5% to 7% including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates.
We have good visibility at this time into our full cost structure and despite higher input costs in 2012 expect adjusted gross margin to increase about 75 basis points driven by productivity and cost savings as well as net price realization.
Therefore we have increased our full-year adjusted earnings per share diluted outlook and including the aforementioned change in pension cost disclosure expect it to increase 9% to 11%.
Before we open up to Q&amp;A as you work your models note that due to the timing and full implementation of the price increases we would expect volume to decline in the first quarter and then improve to be up in the second quarter and for the full year.
Despite higher seasonal pricing in Q1 based on investments and merchandising plans we expect a good start to the year.
Thank you for your time this morning and we will now open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jason English from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions for you.
First can you update us on the progress you're making with the Ferrero partnership? Well I think that as we talked about earlier we're doing the distribution center agreement with them in Canada.
Progress -- that project is progressing and so I think that we're on track.
There's nothing new in terms of the context of that relationship beyond that.
Research Division</strong> One of your -- there was a press report out earlier this week with one of your sales directors quoted in it talking about having conversations for distribution expansion in Europe.
Is that something that you guys are seriously exploring right now? Yes.
Let me add a proper context to that.
So ISM was this week and one of our sales directors had talked about distributors that they were talking to really around our export business.
So I think it was easy to maybe take that out of context.
So in terms of our overall strategic direction focusing on the core markets that we've talked about nothing has changed there.
So I think as you read that it might have been misleading and that was really nothing more than our continuing export business discussions.
Research Division</strong> One more housekeeping and then I'll pass it on.
That 25% rest of the world growth was that constant currency or with FX? That was with FX.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Feeney from Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> When you talk about the retail takeaway the 6.5% for the fourth quarter can you give us a sense what kind of volume is associated with that? Because I just -- I think the biggest point of contrast with your business and some of the other businesses out there right now is the volume.
And I just want to know how you -- what you can tell us about that and what you're thinking for maybe category volume trends over the course of the year.
Well first of all if you were to -- I'll start with if you look at the FDMxCW takeaway in Q4 it was up about 6.5%.
If we were to look at our net sales in the quarter it was just slightly below that but really almost the same.
So from the metric of what you're selling and what's being taken away we felt pretty good.
Most of that would have been price.
Research Division</strong> But volumes were up on a takeaway basis you would say? Seasonal volumes which is an important part of the Q4 volume were all up.
But I think as we talk about the combination of price and volume and as we do price conversion I think Jonathan what you'll remember is is we said about 60% of that will occur in 2012.
The balance is happening in 2011.
The modeling shows that we're really on track.
And we think that as we get to 2012 unit volume in 2012 will be back to flat...
'13.
Or '13 I'm sorry when we get to 2013 we'll be flat again and that's right on the modeling.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And just I want to -- when you think about the risks to the category it seems like you've got a number -- you've got a top competitor who's also been very aggressive with pricing and aggressive with spending back against the category to drive value.
I mean have you seen any uptick in sort of intrusion if you will from other categories like salty snacks or nuts or anything else that's adjacent to candy that -- as these prices come up? I don't think so.
We continue to outperform as I mentioned in my remarks salty snacks and cookies and so forth.
So the consumer continues to participate in our category.
I think it's good news for us and the retailers.
So we really haven't seen anything that would be different than what we've been experiencing.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I got a follow-up I guess on Jonathan's question.
So -- and I may have touched on this last time but so international which is mostly volume and is probably 8% of the total of the business today maybe a little bit more since it's growing so much was up 20% or more.
Seasonal volume was up.
So that has to mean that your non-seasonal everyday business volumes were down pretty materially? Can you talk a little bit about that? And then as a follow-up or related to that I heard that Mars was having some difficulty in terms of their seasonal shipments.
So assuming that they correct that wouldn't that mean that your volumes could actually struggle a bit? Yes.
What I would say Eric is with respect to that combination of international and U.S.
and we have talked about it we have taken a little pricing in some of the international markets.
But volume certainly was up and we saw a sequential improvement.
You're quite right seasonal volume in the U.S.
was up in the quarter.
And from what we're seeing we continue to see the progression of volume recovery as the models would indicate.
While we did mention that in the first quarter given the new pricing on the Easter season that we would expect volume to be down in first quarter '12 and then sequentially improve.
And then J.P.
sort of went a little beyond that and said we think we'd be back to pre-price increased volumes around end of year first quarter.
But no we've seen improvements across volume.
And to get to your second part of your question I'm not familiar with any distribution or shipping issues but that's not something that we've seen.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then on the -- just to clarify and understand a little bit more Mark and I talked about it offline earlier.
But on this pension expense I guess McCormick reported last week it seems like it's the same issue but they're including it in their GAAP or their adjusted or whatever earnings outlook with the way most analysts were kind of I guess taking that in and putting it into their models.
So I'm not exactly sure why you're trying to exclude the volatile component.
And then I'm also given how U.S.-based the company is why would you not move away from FASB and take an IFRS accounting approach? Yes.
Actually your latter point is a very good one.
In fact the methodology that we're following or that we've changed to is far closer to IFRS than GAAP reporting.
And so what we've chosen to do given the fact that we have a well-funded plan and I'm speaking primarily U.S.
plan which is by far the largest if you read the K we've not had any significant contributions to the plan because of its funded status it's been closed to new entrants.
And so the service cost which is the cost or the liability of the members that are in the plan and again there are no new entrants into the plan is quite consistent year-on-year.
And we believe it's a better measure of the underlying operating performance of the company.
The other measures are quite volatile.
I mentioned that in '10 '11 they actually added to earnings.
And then we've shown the reconciliation of the $0.05 impact.
And so a number of companies have gone in the same direction with slightly different techniques.
We think ours is pretty clean in terms of it's in the GAAP numbers and we show exactly what it is coming out.
But again what we wanted to get away from the some years positive some years negative aspect of it.
And IFRS is part of our thinking.
It is much closer to that -- those reporting requirements.
Research Division</strong> And I guess we'll just see how the rest of the industry does it.
Your next question comes from the line of Rob Moskow from Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
On the gross margin it was pretty far below our expectation for fourth quarter.
You mentioned some Halloween issues.
And I think offline I heard that there were some obsolescence issues also.
Can you kind of break apart the gross margin miss? How material was the allowances you had to give to the retailers and the obsolescent charges compared to just higher commodity costs? And then secondly can you give us some commodity cost guidance for 2012? Will the cost hit be higher than it was in '11? Yes.
Let me put it in context on the gross margin.
And as I mentioned we expected sequential improvement so the decline was higher than our expectations as you would have heard in the third quarter.
There really was a multitude of factors.
I mentioned the more significant one so there wasn't 1 significant factor that really impacted the most.
We did have some higher volumes particularly in the U.S.
And so we procured at closer to spot prices for that volume.
So that had a commodity impact.
As we chewed up our LIFO calculation at year-end that charge also impacted our costs.
And the obsolescence and Halloween issue are actually the same issue.
We made some changes.
In prior years wed had harvest packaging which was included if you look at the syndicated data in the Halloween numbers.
And frankly what we found was that moving away from harvest and having more Halloween packaging was actually less -- resonated less with consumers.
So as we changed out of that packaging we did provide some cover for the retailers.
So it really was a multitude of those items.
There really wasn't one in particular that I would say was the predominant one.
In terms of 2012 really nothing has changed versus what we said in the past.
We do expect higher commodity costs but we haven't given specific guidance on the inflation factor.
But at this stage those commodity costs we think will be significantly mitigated by our productivity programs which remain on track and including Next Century as well as J.P.
already mentioned about 60% of our price realization comes in 2012.
The one bit of information that we have added that we haven't spoken to in the past was that we said we think we'd be up about 75 basis points on gross margin.
If you think of all those factors commodities offset by price realization and savings and so that gives you some indication of where we think gross margins will be next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So Bert you don't want to give us an absolute dollar number for commodity costs for '12? No we're not providing that at this stage.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just this might be nitpicking but if seasonal sales were actually pretty good I think you gained share why was there an issue related to the packaging? Why do you think that didn't resonate well? Is it possible you just over shipped and overestimated how much they would want Well yes first of all we felt good about the volumes that went into Halloween.
The total category was up.
I mean essentially with a bit of humility here we underestimated the value that the consumer had in the harvest packaging in previous years.
They use it for decoration and it actually kind of broadened the season if you will in terms of packs that the consumer was used to seeing.
We also had fewer items in our total Halloween offering this year.
We had a higher percentage of sales in the large bags which were $20 bags which obviously you sell fewer units when you get into those larger dollar range et cetera.
So there were a couple of things that while the latter one was good I think that what we would do is return to the harvest packaging in subsequent years.
And I think this is one where we have some learnings.
But overall it's a very positive quarter for overall seasonal sales.
And I think in Halloween while we feel good about the total Halloween program there are some things we're going to need to do to improve and take these learnings on board.
Your next question comes from David Driscoll of Citi Investment.
Research Division</strong> Just to build on Eric Katzman's comment on the pensions.
I would just kind of add to you guys that I appreciate the disclosure but these non-service pension costs are -- I believe that they really are ultimately real financial impacts to the company.
So while I understand your desire to want to exclude them from maybe a current period in time it does appear that at some point in time they probably should run through the P&amp;L.
And then I think that we come down to kind of imperfect plans on this which is why they do run-through on a current basis.
But I go to what Eric said.
He mentioned McCormick but I think you could go on a lot of companies.
Just to put this on an apples-to-apples basis it seems like the first call estimates have to continue to include these things unless we see broad agreement across the sector that all these things need to be excluded.
Still I think the strongest argument would be if these were not truly real costs that were never materialized.
But I don't think you guys are actually making that argument right now.
If you are I'd love to hear it.
So that's just maybe a personal statement there.
And then getting into just kind of some key questions what is your confidence that you have in for 2012 that the pricing will hold i.e.
can you talk about the stickiness of pricing in comparison to the desire to want to be promotional? Well David I think that the best barometer that I always look at is what's happening in convenience because it's the one where you see it first.
And so if you look at the growth and the offtake in convenience it would lead you to believe that it's fully cycled.
The pricing at this point and king size continues to grow very nicely and contribute importantly.
Obviously that's at the upper end of the price range.
So I think in that example the pricing has been 100% sticky right? So that's pretty encouraging.
And then as we look at the channels and there's a lot of noise in the timeframe by which these different channels convert just because of the different dynamics but we're seeing that the conversion is right on or slightly better than how we've modeled it.
And so for everything we know at this point I think we feel good.
And as you can imagine we are all over this in terms of monitoring how it goes.
Easter will be the first season where we're at the new pricing.
And so far what we're seeing is we've got really solid programming and volume looks very good.
And so all indications are in terms of all of those things you would be executing against as we go through the year.
We feel good.
Research Division</strong> When you talk about advertising last year at this time you made the comments that advertising would run at a much more normalized rate of increase.
But now in your 2012 guidance you're talking about double-digit increases.
So can you discuss this a little bit? I thought kind of last year you proved that the advertising budget was really in the right place but now you're really kind of going a different direction and it's going to be a very big increase in 2012.
Well actually let's think about it in 2 parts.
So if you look at the core brands in the advertising levels that we have planned they would look very similar to where we're at this year.
In the U.S.
we're adding Jolly Rancher advertising we're adding Rolo advertising.
And so we're actually extending advertising further across the portfolio versus increasing it necessarily on existing brands.
So on brands like Reese's and Hershey's we believe we're sustaining investment levels.
And so the marginal benefit of that extra dollars spend would be less on those kinds of brands.
So we're really extending across the portfolio.
And then importantly in our international businesses we continue to be investing there to build brands and grow penetration and so some of that investment importantly is up against those businesses.
If you look at it on a total basis and part of it is remember where we're coming from in 2008 '07 and '08 we were spending about 2.5% of net sales in advertising which was significantly below any brand building levels.
And then today we ended up 2011 probably 6.8% 6.9% of net sales in our advertising spend and well be slightly above that in sort of call it the 7% to 7.5% range.
That would be very very normal CPG brand-oriented company spend level.
So we really feel good where we're at and that we're executing against our long-term strategy.
Research Division</strong> Very clear answer.
One final question for me.
Bert Brookside $90 million in sales.
Given the low cost of funding you say this is neutral to EPS.
I'm struggling here just a little bit well on the math on this one.
Are the margins on this thing really bad? Or are you guys just wanting to say that -- I mean like I can't get to neutral unless I assume that the margins on this thing are really quite bad given the funding costs.
What am I getting wrong here? No Dave I wouldn't say that we're disappointed in the margins of the business.
We are investing in the business in a way that will create future opportunity particularly in the North America where it's already pretty successful and then doing research outside of that.
So it really is brand investment.
The business is cash flow positive.
There is a certain amount of goodwill amortization that hits the P&amp;L in the first few years as a result of the purchase which is non-cash as you might expect.
And we're also adding some capacity to be able to expand the brand.
So we're happy with the margins.
Obviously we can improve on them with some synergies in terms of our scale.
But it is a sound business and one that we think is going to really pay dividends for us.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Growe from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple questions for you.
The first one I just wanted to ask about as of last quarter we saw some retailers pushing through pricing at a little more aggressive rate.
That didn't seem so obvious this quarter given how your sales and some of the measured channel kind of lined up pretty well.
Is that just because of the heavier seasonal sales in the quarter? That's absolutely correct.
That's correct.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I wanted to ask about the cost savings.
I know you have some Next Century savings next year.
You'll have some I assume some ongoing productivity savings.
Anything unique or can you give kind of a rough range of the cost savings coming through in 2012 particularly in relation to the gross margin being so strong? Yes.
The 2012 savings program from a dollar range perspective is actually pretty close to '11.
So we were expecting $80 million to $90 million of savings.
There's some minor differences in terms of the contributors.
We always have our normal productivity within the 4 walls of the plant.
Project Next Century savings actually increases from about $15 million to the $20 million to $25 million range.
And then we had an active program that we've talked about the last 3 years.
That was against nonmanufacturing spend which we've captured about $100 million.
And while there is savings from that program that program is not providing as much savings as it has incrementally in the past few years.
But the total program remains in that $80 million to $90 million range.
And that certainly is a big contributor to the gross margin.
But again Id point you to the price realization based on our conversion models where about 60% of that comes in 2012.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
And my last question is in relation to balance sheet and how we should think about it.
I mean maybe you could characterize the acquisition pipeline for the year.
I would contend you could do a lot of share repurchase.
So I'm just trying to understand you've got a modest amount of share repurchase authorization available.
But is there a full pipeline we should expect you to be trying to execute against if you will? When you mention pipeline are you talking M&amp;A? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Acquisitions you got it.
Yes.
Yes well we're not really going to -- we're not going to comment on specific M&amp;A.
With respect to the balance sheet yes we continue to be a very predictable strong cash flow performer.
In 2012 we had slightly less capital but still a good amount of capital close to $300 million as we finish up Next Century.
While we didn't execute against the 250 million buyback program we did buy back 285 million of shares in the open market against the replenishment program.
And then we announced a 10% dividend increase.
So we continue to have a sound balance sheet.
We continue to explore opportunities for M&amp;A and we'll be able to finance those in appropriate manner where we find value to shareholders.
So all of those are important to us and we'll continue to focus across that range.
Your next question comes from Ken Zaslow from BMO Capital Markets.
I have just 2 questions.
First one in terms of the pension costs just to understand it when you initially gave guidance was that included and so it's like-for-like? Or is the increase related to the $0.05 decrease? When we initially gave guidance we were just really communicating within our 3 to 5 6 to 8 long-term guidance.
And so at that time we wouldn't have given any indication around pension.
We frankly hadn't finished the debate and it's something that we talked about internally and came to what we thought was the best conclusion.
Obviously the current numbers do and there's a reconciliation in the press release that gives you pretty good detail of what that is versus what we're currently saying 9 to 11 which does include that adjustment on a pro forma basis.
And the second question is it seems like obviously your international sales growth is actually moving at a greater pace than you anticipated going forward.
Can you give some sort of at least qualitative view on how you're thinking of the margin structure of each of the business? Mexico Brazil China India are progressing relative to your expectations.
And do you expect a quicker return on the margin or operating profit line? Well first of all as weve said our overall international businesses are profitable today.
If you look at the focus markets that we have we're in an invest mode.
And so you would expect those margins to be lower but they're certainly taken into consideration within the guidance that we're giving to you.
And then the other comment I would make there is we believe we're well-positioned for any both opportunities and challenges.
At any given time if we wanted to change our current model of investment in those markets those markets could be profitable today.
But the intent is is that we have a commitment to grow those markets.
And therefore you would expect those key markets which are in an invest mode to be in a lower margin than in fact the average of the company.
Yes.
And one way to think about that is depending on where you're measuring.
So obviously at a gross margin level they're much closer to U.S.
rates than operating because of that invest-growing profile.
Great.
And then in terms of China specifically there is going to be another additional sales force expansion as well there in line with R&amp;D.
So is that a 2- to 4-year period? Is there a period of time that you actually think that you'll be established at a run rate level by 2014? Or is it going to be an investment period beyond that for China? Well Bert and I both probably will take a whack at that.
On the investment in the selling capability our business is largely along the Eastern seaboard today.
We continue to move west as we think that's appropriate.
And then within each of those key geographies if you think of it as concentric circles we increase our density there as well.
So I think that we'll continue to be investing in our go-to-market capabilities in a very planful way.
We don't have an idea of where we get well out over our SKUs or so far ahead of ourselves.
So the great thing for our company in a country like China and this really applies to our focus markets is you have this dynamic market growth.
But the important thing is to participate in it at attractive cost versus get out ahead of it.
So it's really not about winning share at a high cost from competition as much as it is participating in the dynamic growth.
And that enables you to in a very planful way expand the organization.
So I don't think you would see us doing something that would get us out of a line with how we feel the size of the business is for us.
Yes I wouldn't add anything to that.
Your next question comes from the line of Alexia Howard from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First of all on the revenue guidance for this year I'm assuming that that includes the sales from the Brookside acquisition which I think is about 1.5%.
And then given that the international business is growing so rapidly that may be adding another couple of percentage points to the total company top line.
So would I be right in thinking that the U.S.
sales guidance is more in the 2% to 4% kind of range? Is that the right way to think about it? No.
Let me try to give you a few more data points.
First the 5% to 7% that we've mentioned it would be an organic growth rate and so it would not include Brookside.
Although itll be -- Alexia this is Mark.
That 5% to 7% does include a little FX so it's not truly organic.
But...
Right it's not constant currency but -- and again and we expect a little bit of a drag versus last year particularly in the first half from currency.
But it is -- think of it more as organic in terms of x Brookside and you would add Brookside to that.
J.P.
mentioned that the category continues to trend above historical which we think of as 3% to 4% and it certainly performed above that 4%.
We expect a continuation of that in the U.S.
market and we expect to be able to be competitive within that range.
And so I wouldn't think of the U.S.
as a 2% to 3% grower where we're saying the category grows a bit of a 4% historically and that we are very competitive within that range.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a follow-up on the pricing situation.
Just been hearing some commentary that maybe the #3 player in the chocolate market in the U.S.
is pulling back a bit on the price increases that they tried to take.
Are you seeing any of that? Or at the moment is everybody following you on your price lead? Well we don't think of it as following or anything like that.
I would say that all of the category players have taken some pricing but we haven't seen any of -- we haven't seen retailers shy away from those.
And so we think everybody's converting at some pace and we're pretty happy with our conversion.
Yes Alexia this is Mark.
I mean I think if you look at the IRI/Nielsen data that you guys continually to get on a quad basis I think it indicates that there is pricing across all manufacturers.
Your next question comes from the line of Thilo Wrede from Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just 1 quick question for you.
I understand that the CMG category has different dynamics than overall packaged foods.
That being said though some of your packaged food peers have been talking lately about going to smaller pack sizes going to lower opening price points yet you talk about getting growth benefits from selling more king size packages.
Help me understand why the king size works in CMG and chocolate but not in other packaged food categories? Well let me give you just a couple of things to think about.
First of all it's important to remember that we're not a food group.
We're less than 2% of total caloric intake for Americans.
And we're an accessible indulgence.
So the category has some dynamics that are probably different than some of the other categories that we were talking about.
So I think that's just a fundamental element here are the differences between us and some of the other snack-type items.
Yes.
The other -- the only thing I would add is when you mentioned what we specifically call king size is in the consumable\-pack type you may have been thinking J.P.'s referral to larger pack sizes during some of the Halloween seasonal which in our mind isn't what we think of as king size but larger pack size in any case.
And I'll just add that -- a little more specifics onto that is that the value of king size is an obvious and good value to the consumer.
They can do the math easily and then therefore again it's at a low price point.
It's accessible.
And I think again the reason people purchase and participate in the category may be a little bit different.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So even though your regular sizes show the regular price elasticity the price sensitivity that the overall packaged food industry is talking about does not seem to apply to these king size products then.
I think that's correct.
Your next question comes from the line of David Palmer from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple questions.
First a follow-up on your answer earlier.
You mentioned that seasonal mix was higher.
Was there a dynamic about -- in your take home packaging where the seasonal did not have pricing but some of your other packaging sort of the lay-down packs did and you saw a shift in packages in mix that might have been a little greater than expected? We wouldn't have seen a shift for that reason but you're right that we did not take pricing on the seasons.
They're still under price protection but a lot of our everyday packaged candy would have been at higher prices yes.
Research Division</strong> So you don't look at that as a price elasticity thing rather just a function of the marketing and...
Yes.
I think it's really season-specific.
And so consumers buy for the season.
They don't necessarily buy more seasonal packs because they're not priced up yet versus the every day.
They're just -- they're different usage occasions.
So they wouldn't stock up on seasonal to avoid the everyday pack price increase.
Research Division</strong> And second question on your C-store trends.
I'm wondering if you can give some feeling about how you -- that channel may play out in 2012.
I know you're not going give exact channel guidance but perhaps some ways to think about it.
As I'm thinking about it you have strong momentum in the second half.
And exiting the year it looks like you had some fantastic growth in that channel.
But you're going to be lapping some innovation.
And then I just wonder about king size.
It's been such wonderful lift for many years now at least as I perceive it.
Do you see that dynamic continuing to play out on a favorable way for that channel? Any thoughts would be helpful.
Well I'll make a couple of comments.
First we've experienced very good trends in C-store.
And so we're going to be lapping some pretty challenging comps.
So it would be nice to assume that we'll continue to have those that look the same but my guess is some of those are going to be pretty tough comps to lap.
With that said I think the momentum in the C-store channel is going to continue.
I don't see anything that suggests their business model or traffic will change.
So I'm pretty optimistic about the overall dynamics of the convenience store channel.
With regard to king size again I think because of the accessibility of our category itll be far more about the category performance than it will be any individual pack size.
And because these products are accessible in every measure and we continue to have about 8 points of presentation or activation in the average C-store across the country that we feel good about our programming and I'm quite optimistic about the channel.
Research Division</strong> Is that mostly the big cup -- big pack Reese's stuff in the king size? I mean what is really -- what are your key king size drivers? Well there's really -- over the last several years there's really been a couple of really key drivers I think between our -- behind our C-store success.
First of all is we had you may remember we used to talk about the big 33 program.
So I think what happened is is we got far better at having a very constant range across C-stores in general and then that enabled our advertising to work harder for us.
It enabled the consumer to be able to find the things that we were talking to them about.
And so our distribution was really important.
We also got far far more focused around the retail programming that we had.
And if you -- sometimes when we're out having visits with you guys we'll show you some of those programming calendars.
And we execute really really well against those.
And remember we increased our selling organization coverage and size across C-store.
So we're covering those with our dedicated sales force at a higher rate than we had in the past.
So I think all of those things have just really helped us activate in the category and then we have a disproportionate representation in king size.
So if you were to look at the total category our king size participation there is greater.
Therefore as this value dynamic or as the consumer looks at the category we have gotten a disproportionate share of that growth.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Lazar from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I'll just keep this quick.
I just -- given Hershey's sort of desire to be more aggressive from an M&amp;A perspective in emerging markets and it would seem like perhaps you guys are a bit disappointed that maybe you haven't been able to do more in that arena so far.
And if that's the case I'm just trying to get a sense of maybe what it is that you're seeing there that's preventing you from doing it or not seeing there that you had hoped to see.
Just to try and get a sense of how we can think about that going forward.
Is it just that they're opportunistic and they haven't been there? Or are there some structural things maybe that you're seeing in some of the businesses that might be available that just aren't really doing it for you? Well I think Andrew first of all if we were disappointed it hasn't caused us to be desperate.
So I think that again without being overly specific I think that weve said we're actively looking at a combination of bolt-ons all the way through to larger types of events.
And these things take time.
You certainly want to do them well.
We want to be choiceful and smart as we go.
So we're actively paying attention to all the opportunities that we think could be good for our company.
And as we think about making those choices we really want to make sure that they're really good choices and that they really deliver against the company's long-term objectives.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick points of clarification.
First on the pension expenses.
Just want to be clear on the piece that you're going to be excluding are you going to be marking to market your pension assets on a quarterly basis and so thatll be volatile? Or are you still doing the smoothing and so people can at least allocate that $0.05 as sort of a visible cost that can be just allocated each quarter? Yes.
It's really not a mark-to-market.
Some of the companies have taken that approach.
As I said as companies have taken slightly different approaches to adjusting earnings there are some that have done that.
No ours would be smoothing.
And as I said our point on that is that they're primarily noncash -- they're noncash charges.
You could  in the K where there is an impact if this were to go in one direction for a long time obviously it may have some funding implications.
But [indiscernible] we haven't seen that.
And the fact that we have some years up and some years down is really what led us to pull that out in terms of what's the real operating cost to the business of the service costs within our pension plan.
But it is a smoothing.
It's Mark.
Just to be clear I mean similar to other restructure charges and how we show the -- we take you that reconciliation from GAAP to adjusted I mean we will do the same with this as well.
Yes.
And the lines that predominantly get impacted are the ones you would think right; gross margin because of our factory employment and SG&amp;A.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just 1 other point.
Just in terms of the seasonal business in the quarter did the snowstorm the bad weather on the East Coast at all affect Halloween for you or for the industry? No absolutely not.
No we didn't see that.
Your next question comes from the line of Rob Dickerson from Consumer.
LLC</strong> Yes just 2 quick easy questions hopefully.
So the gross margin I know you're guiding to 75-basis-points improvement driven by increased pricing volumes up and productivity.
But I just -- I'm curious I mean do you think that there's obviously [Technical Difficulty] I'm just curious I mean do you think that there's actually a little bit more upside to that? Because I mean we've just seen cocoa now down 30% in June year-over-year and the class 3 is expected to be down 7% to 8% for '12.
So I'm just curious you didn't really call out lower expected commodity costs.
When you talk about high expected costs are you speaking just higher absolute levels or what? So just a little clarification on that.
Yes.
We think of it as more the combination or the cost basket as we call it.
And while you're quite right that we've seen some declines in cocoa and a little bit on the sugar side we typically look at it what's the 2-year average across that commodity basket.
And you'll find that by and large we're above those levels cocoa being the exception at least for the moment.
And still things like peanuts and dairy in fact and some of the others are still quite elevated.
So we've seen a little bit of tapering and that's good for you certainly in any case.
But it really is based on the basket not any individual commodity.
LLC</strong> Okay perfect.
And then secondly I guess this is back to Chris's question originally just on the buyback.
I mean I know you used to buy back shares.
You haven't really bought back shares now in 5 years.
So I guess a more direct question is just like what would get you to buy back your shares or buy back more shares that would be accretive to earnings? Yes.
I mean we did buy back some shares this year.
And you're right we haven't been as active.
We certainly stayed out of the market a couple of years ago when the financial structure was a bit more up in the air.
This year we completed the '06 program that was the $100 million and we were actually pretty active deploying cash in terms of option replenishment.
As you might imagine the shares were up nicely and so there was more option exercising.
So it's one of the elements that we look at in terms of giving back to shareholders and we discuss with our Board of Directors.
So we've not done as much as you pointed out and we had in the more recent past but it's not one that we would shy away from.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then lastly and really just to kind of sum up all the comments that you've had in Q&amp;A.
If I think about just EPS guidance that you had in Q3 more in line with long-term targets 6% to 8%.
And now if we look at guidance now you're guiding 9% to 11%.
You just back out the $0.05 let's say because that's probably -- everyone else was already factoring that in.
Youre at 7% to 9%.
So if I look at the 6% to 8% relative to the 7% to 9% what really was kind of in a nutshell what was that 100-basis-points improvement to 3 months ago? Yes again in the third quarter we traditionally don't give a lot of details around the guidance.
And so your observation is accurate in terms of we're looking at sales guidance which is above the range.
And so that's different than what we talked about.
We gave more detail on gross margin.
Last time we said we were focused on it.
This time we're actually telling you that we're expecting to be up close to 75 basis points.
And we're investing in the business both in the U.S.
and outside of that at appropriate levels.
We're pleased with the financial performance that we're projecting for the year.
And really that's the additional detail that we're providing today.
[Operator Instructions] All right.
Well if that's it operator we thank you we thank everyone for joining our conference call today.
And myself and Matt Miller will be available for any follow-up questions that you may have.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much everybody.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Theresa and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Hershey Company First Quarter 2012 Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Mark Pogharian to begin.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Theresa.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to The Hershey Company's First Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
J.P.
Bilbrey President and CEO; Bert Alfonso Executive Vice President and CFO and Chief Administrative Officer; and I will represent Hershey on this morning's call.
We welcome those of you listening via the webcast.
Let me remind everyone listening that today's conference call may contain statements which are forward-looking.
These statements are based on current expectations which are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements because of factors such as those listed in this morning's press release and in our 10-K for 2011 filed with the SEC.
If you have not seen the press release a copy is posted on our corporate website in the Investor Relations section.
Included in the press release is a consolidated balance sheet and a summary of consolidated statements of income prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Within the Notes section of the press release we have provided adjusted reconciliations of select income statement line items quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.
As we said within the note the company uses these non-GAAP measures as key metrics for evaluating performance internally.
These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP.
Rather the company believes the presentation of earnings excluding certain items provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations.
We will discuss first quarter results excluding net pretax charges of $33.6 million or $0.09 per share diluted which are primarily related to the Project Next Century program.
Our discussion of any future projections will also exclude the impact of these net charges non-service-related pension expense and acquisition and integration costs related to Brookside Foods.
With that out of the way let me now turn the call over to J.P.
Bilbrey.
Thanks Mark.
I'm pleased that the Hershey Company generated solid quarterly results in Q1 of 2012.
We expected to get off to a strong start as the first quarter is essentially the only period of the year where we realized pricing across the board.
We continue to support our brands with the right level of investments to succeed in the marketplace across all channels.
This has resulted in achievable predictable and consistent growth which has been ahead of the long-term targets we established in 2008 and we did this against a backdrop of consumer uncertainty.
Importantly the CMG -- candy mint and gum -- category continues to outpace other parts of the store.
For the 12 and 52 weeks ended March 24 2012 the CMG category growth was again greater than the historical growth of 3% to 4%.
Given the high household penetration impulsivity of the category as well as affordable price points we believe retailers across all channels will continue to value the confectionery category.
As a result we would expect the category to continue to consistently secure key merchandising space and programming.
In the first quarter Hershey's net sales increased 10.7%.
Bert will provide you with details but growth was primarily driven by pricing.
Everyday U.S.
core brand performance was in line with our expectations and volume elasticity modeling while Easter was slightly stronger.
Our international business continues to be strong contributing about 2 points to the overall top line growth.
Now looking at retail takeaway.
CMG retail takeaway for the 12 weeks ending March 24 2012 per our custom database in channels that account for over 80% of our retail business -- and as a reminder these channels include food drug mass including Walmart and convenience stores -- increased plus 6.4%.
If you were to add the other fast-growing retail outlets like club and dollar which will be available to you around midyear and add the Easter products scanned in all channels between March 24 and April 8 our retail takeaway is in line with first quarter U.S.
net sales.
Looking at syndicated data here excluding Walmart Hershey's FDMxC retail takeaway was up 4.7%.
Hershey FDMxC CMG market share in Q1 was flat in line with our expectations.
Note that syndicated data currently excludes our market share performance at our largest customer and in the fast-growing value channels where we continue to do well.
Additionally the year-ago period benefited from our major product launches primarily Reese's Minis that occurred earlier in the year given the late Easter.
In 2012 the window between Valentine's and Easter was closer necessitating seasonal merchandising and programming on the floor much earlier than the prior year.
Therefore we plan to launch our more significant innovation to launch in Q2 and beyond.
We expect that this will have a favorable impact on our FDMxC market share performance in the coming months and quarters.
Given these moving parts I'm pleased with the overall category performance in the first quarter.
Investments in the category in the form of advertising and innovation are present for most major manufacturers and it appears that competitor new product launches were skewed to the first quarter.
For the 12 weeks ended March 24 FDMxC CMG category growth including seasonal activity in both the current and year-ago periods was also up plus 4.7%.
Given that marketplace data for the 12 weeks ended March 24 excludes the significant last 2 weeks of the Easter season and all the aforementioned moving parts my upcoming remarks related to marketplace performance by channel will include seasonal data in all periods.
For the 12 weeks ended March 24 2012 food channel CMG category growth was up 1.1%.
Food channel retail takeaway for Hershey was off about 0.5% resulting in a market share decline of 0.5 points.
Our non-chocolate performance was solid up plus 10% driven by continued TWIZZLERS momentum and the new Jolly Rancher Crunch 'N Chew product.
And as I mentioned previously Hershey chocolate performance in this channel was impacted by the timing of chocolate new product launches in the year-ago period.
Hence Q1 food channel chocolate category growth slowed to plus 1.8%.
Our food channel chocolate retail sales declined 1.4% resulting in a negative 1.4 share point loss.
Given the timing of our 2012 new product launches we would expect marketplace performance in this channel to sequentially improve as we make our way through the year.
In the C-store class of trade where the Easter impacts are minimal the CMG category was up plus 8.5%.
Total Hershey C-store performance was particularly strong with takeaway up 9.3% resulting in a share gain of 0.2 points.
These gains were driven by pricing core brand advertising in-store selling merchandising and programming including our continued successful promotional tie-in with the NCAA March Madness basketball tournament.
In Q1 Hershey's C-store performance was balanced with retail takeaway up 8.6% 15.1% and 15% in chocolate non-chocolate and mints respectively.
Importantly it doesn't appear that higher prices at the pump are having a major effect at the C-store level.
In case you missed it on April 6 a NACS or National Association of Convenience Stores spokesperson was on CNBC and stated that despite higher gas prices sales inside the store have actually increased.
2011 was better than 2010 and so far this year he stated most members are telling him that sales inside the store are going up.
Hence the current prices at the pump don't appear to be having the same effect on consumer buying behavior at NACS locations as they have in the past.
Our experience is consistent with this as first quarter traffic partially due to good weather and consumer dollar spend was higher at our own CHOCOLATE WORLD retail stores.
The convenience store channel will continue to be a meaningful contributor to Hershey in 2012.
However as we make our way through the remainder of the year retail dollar takeaway growth will most likely slow as we begin to lap the price increase.
In the drug class-of-trade CMG category growth was plus 2.2%.
Hershey retail takeaway increased 3.4% resulting in a share gain of 0.3 points.
Similar to the last couple of quarters our drug channel retail takeaway was meaningful in non-chocolate mint and gum and resulted in solid market share gains.
However our chocolate growth slowed to plus 2.6% and we lost 0.3 chocolate market share points in this channel.
Chocolate dynamics changed in this channel during the quarter.
However we maintained our disciplined and focused strategy that will deliver long-term chocolate category growth and quality market share gains.
As we look to the remainder of the year we have many exciting new products promotions programs and merchandising events in place across all channels.
New product launches include Jolly Rancher Crunch 'N Chew Rolo Minis and Ice Breakers Duos.
Additionally we're pleased to announce the launch of Hershey Simple Pleasures in 3 flavors milk chocolate dark chocolate and vanilla cream in a smooth and creamy format that has 30% less fat than the average leading milk chocolates.
Our proprietary sales force allows us to execute flawlessly in store and leverage our merchandising and programming expertise.
Some of the activity we have planned includes S'mores programming that will run throughout the key summer dates and into fall tailgating; a couple of TWIZZLERS summer programs one tied in with the upcoming Spiderman movie and another that will award a lucky consumer a chance to win a new car filled with their favorite TWIZZLERS products; as well as a summer Reese's and Coca-Cola promotion.
We're also on track to increase full year advertising expense low-double digits for the total company on a percentage basis versus last year supporting new product launches and core brands in both the U.S.
and international markets and new advertising campaigns on the JOLLY RANCHER and ROLO brands.
Q1 advertising growth outpaced the increase in SM&amp;A expense x advertising.
We don't expect that to be the case over the next 9 months as our planned investments in international go-to-market capabilities accelerate especially in the second quarter.
The SM&amp;A increases are in support of the key international markets we've previously discussed and are focused on market research category management and building selling capabilities.
Our businesses in the focus markets of Mexico China and Brazil are off to a good start to the year as net sales increased about 20%.
The business and consumers continue to respond positively to these broad-based investments and we expect the same response from our 2012 initiatives.
Now to wrap up.
I'm pleased with the way the confectionery category and Hershey continue to perform in the marketplace.
We have solid relationships and are working well with retailers in all our channels.
Macroeconomic challenges still exist however and we feel good about the prospects as confectionery has proved to be resilient given the impulse nature of the category and the continued investment in the category in the form of innovation and advertising.
Category growth has been robust.
It's expandable profitable for the retailer and affordable to the consumer.
Over the remainder of the year we're confident that our innovation advertising and in-store execution will continue to drive top line growth.
As previously mentioned advertising will increase low-double digits on a percentage basis versus last year.
As a result we have increased our top and bottom line outlook for the year.
We expect organic volume to be slightly up in 2012 and including in the results of the Brookside acquisition about $90 million at current exchange rates we expect full year net sales growth of about 7% to 9% including the impact of foreign currency.
There is no material change to our inflation outlook for the year and we continue to estimate that the input costs will be higher in 2012 versus last year.
Despite this increase pricing productivity and cost saving initiatives are in place and at this time we estimate that full year 2012 adjusted gross margin will increase about 90 to 100 basis points.
Therefore given our solid first quarter start and the SM&amp;A investments to be made over the remainder of the year we have increased our full year adjusted earnings per share diluted outlook and expect it to increase 10% to 12%.
I'll now turn it over to Bert who will provide some additional detail on our financial results.
Thank you J.P.
and good morning everyone.
First quarter results were solid with consolidated net sales of $1.73 billion up 10.7% versus the prior year and relatively in line with our expectations.
Adjusted earnings per share diluted of $0.96 up 31.5% was a bit better than our expectations due primarily to the timing of SM&amp;A investments that I will provide more context on shortly.
J.P.
provided details on our marketplace performance so I will focus on the review of the P&amp;L balance sheet and cash flow.
As expected first quarter net sales gains were driven primarily by a 10.9% net price realization benefit partially offset by core volume decline due to price elasticity of 0.5 points.
Our recent acquisition Brookside Foods contributed approximately 0.7% on top line and foreign currency exchange rates were about a 0.4 point headwind.
Importantly in the U.S.
excluding about a 1.5-point benefit from new products volume elasticity due to price increases on core brands is tracking in line with our modeling and our U.S.
seasonal business continues to be strong.
Following a strong fourth quarter holiday season Easter sell-in in Q1 was a bit better than our initial estimates.
We continue to see relatively consistent growth in our international markets as they contributed about 2 points to our top line growth on a quarterly basis.
Turning now to margins.
In the first quarter adjusted gross margin increased 180 basis points driven by net price realization supply chain efficiencies and productivity.
These margin gains were partially offset by higher input costs of about $30 million in line with our expectations.
Commodity spot market prices have been volatile and we expect that volatility to continue in the coming months.
As previously stated we have good visibility into our cost structure and there is no material change in our full year inflation outlook.
We continue to expect higher input costs in 2012 versus last year.
However due to our good start to the year solid productivity and cost savings as well as net price realization we expect full year adjusted gross margin to increase 90 to 100 basis points versus our previous estimate of about 75 basis points.
Adjusted EBIT driven primarily by higher gross margin was up 28% resulting in an EBIT margin of 21.3% up 290 basis points over the first quarter of 2011.
In addition SM&amp;A excluding advertising declined as a percentage of net sales by 130 basis points versus last year.
A good portion of this gain is timing-related and over the remainder of the year we expect SM&amp;A increases excluding advertising to be greater than the first quarter trends.
Our planned SM&amp;A investments include market research category management and selling and marketing capabilities in both the U.S.
and international markets.
In addition our R&amp;D center in Shanghai is also scheduled to open later this year.
Advertising expense increased about 14% in Q1 and we continue to estimate low double-digit percentage increase versus last year supporting core brands and new products in both the U.S.
and international markets.
Now let me provide a brief update on our international businesses.
First quarter international sales excluding Canada increased about 20% versus last year.
We are pleased with our progress in our focus markets and especially China and Brazil whose top line growth exceeded 20% in Q1 driven by strong seasonal performance.
International profitability increased versus last year.
However this increase was primarily driven by the already mentioned timing of SM&amp;A investments.
We remain committed to these markets and we'll continue to make the necessary investments to build brand equity and drive trial and repeat purchases.
For the quarter interest expense decreased coming in at $24 million versus $24.5 million last year.
In 2012 we expect interest expense to be approximately $95 million to $100 million.
The tax rate for the first quarter was 6.1% [ph] slightly lower than last year due to the timing of certain tax events.
Excluding tax rate impacts associated with business realignment and impairment charges we continue to expect the full year tax rate to be about 35%.
The tax rate in Q2 will be slightly less than Q1 and about 34% in the second half of the year.
In the first quarter of 2012 weighted average shares outstanding on a diluted basis were 228.7 million versus approximately 230.2 million in 2011 leading to adjusted EPS diluted of $0.96.
Turning now to the balance sheet and cash flow.
At the end of the first quarter net trading capital increased versus last year's first quarter by $184 million.
Accounts receivable was up $69 million and remains extremely current.
The current year-over-year increase is a direct result of Easter timing.
Inventory increased by $114 million year-over-year primarily related to the Project Next Century production transition.
Lastly accounts payable decreased by $1 million.
In terms of other specific cash flow items total company capital additions including software were $92 million in Q1.
These amounts included Project Next Century capital expenditures of $47 million.
In 2012 we expect ongoing CapEx to be approximately $240 million to $250 million excluding Project Next Century.
Capital additions are expected to be an additional $65 million to $70 million for Project Next Century making our total 2012 CapEx estimate $305 million to $320 million.
Note that these amounts include CapEx for Brookside Foods manufacturing capacity expansion as well.
The Brookside integration is progressing as planned and we intend to expand distribution in 2013.
Depreciation and amortization was $55 million in the quarter.
This includes accelerated depreciation related to Project Next Century of approximately $9 million.
Adjusted operating depreciation and amortization was $46 million.
In 2012 we are forecasting total operating depreciation and amortization of about $195 million to $205 million.
Dividends paid during the quarter were $84 million.
During the quarter we repurchased 125 million of our shares against the 250-million repurchase authorization that was approved in April of 2011.
There is 125 million remaining on this authorization.
We also purchased 93 million of our common shares to replace shares issued in connection with exercises of stock options.
All 218 million of acquired shares were repurchased in the open market.
Cash on hand at the end of the first quarter was $567 million down $126 million versus year-end.
As it relates to our short-term cash needs the company is currently well positioned to manage the capital needs of the business.
Our cash flow remains strong and we'll continue to improve as we grow earnings and normalize inventory levels related to Project Next Century.
Let me now provide an update on the Project Next Century program.
We are pleased with the progress we're making on the West Hershey plant expansion which remains on track.
The building is complete and progress continues with the startup of new production lines.
All new lines are expected to be operational at the West Hershey facility by the end of Q2.
The forecast for total project pretax GAAP charges and nonrecurring project implementation costs remains at $150 million to $160 million.
By 2014 we expect ongoing savings to be approximately $65 million to $80 million.
Please see the note in Appendix 1 in today's press release for further details.
Now to summarize.
Our U.S.
marketplace performance in measured and non-measured channels is tracking as expected.
We have core brand building merchandising and programming as well as launches of new products planned for the remainder of the year that will enable us to maintain our momentum.
In addition advertising will be up low-double digits on a percentage basis versus last year.
Given our strong start to the year we have increased our top and bottom line outlook for 2012.
We expect organic volume to sequentially improve and be up slightly for the full year.
Our current modeling indicates organic volume will be about flat in Q2 and then up slightly in Q3 and 4.
And we continue to estimate full year net sales contribution from Brookside of about $90 million at today's exchange rates.
Therefore including Brookside we expect full year net sales growth of about 7% to 9% including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates.
There is no material change to our inflation outlook for the year.
We have good visibility into our full year cost structure and despite higher input costs in 2012 I expect adjusted gross margin to increase 90 to 100 basis points driven by productivity cost savings and net price realization.
Therefore we have increased our full year adjusted earnings per share diluted outlook and expect to grow 10% to 12%.
Before we open up to Q&amp;A and as you work your models please note the following.
In Q2 we begin to lap last year's price increase.
Due to seasonality Q2 is typically our smallest quarter.
Our 2012 innovation picks up in Q2.
However we are also lapping the launch of successful Reese's Minis and Hershey's Drops.
Despite commodity spot market volatility input costs will continue to be higher year-over-year.
We would expect to incur promotional and launch costs related to Rolo Minis Hershey Simple Pleasures and Ice Breakers Duos starting in Q2.
And as already mentioned a good portion of the estimated timing on expense increases will mostly likely be incurred in Q2 and Q3.
With that out of the way we'll now open it up to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question is from David Palmer of UBS.
Research Division</strong> This is Mineo calling in for Dave.
I guess our first question would be you did mention something about increased marketing and go-to-market capabilities.
Could you characterize the nature of that spending? Sure.
We've been making investments over the last couple of years certainly in both the U.S.
and non-U.S.
markets.
And in this particular quarter we've talked about it separately than advertising which we said increased at about 14%.
And so market research; sales force capability not only training but also distribution expansion in certain geographies particularly in China that we've talked about in the past; as well as other capabilities which are collaborative such as IDP with our major retailers.
Those are the types of investments that we're talking about.
In addition to those I mentioned that with our product launches obviously we have product launch expenditures that also fall into the SM&amp;A category.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And as you start to lap the Drops and Minis which is clearly going to represent tougher comparisons going forward are there any additional innovation in the -- or is there any additional innovation in the pipeline for the second half of the year? Well we have innovation across all of the markets over the balance of the year.
But the ones that we've talked about are primarily the ones that we're going to be focused on.
So again let me remind you that we talk about our innovation being about 1 point of our overall growth.
Over the last couple of years we've done certainly better than that.
And we're going to do better than that this year as well but there will be some tough comparisons versus the kind of success we had versus Minis.
But we still believe that we've got a good slate of innovation that'll be very productive for us.
The next question is from Jason English of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things real quick.
On Brookside can you tell us where you stand right now in terms of capacity utilization the plan the pacing of the expansion and where that business sits in terms of distribution across all channels today? Well the Brookside acquisition if you remember when we talked about capacity will be bringing on new capacity late in the year of 2012 that will help position us for a much broader expansion in the U.S.
market in 2013.
So today that business is doing very well and in fact we wouldn't be able to go much further than we have already with the capacity we have.
So we'll have capital investments in that business late in the year that gives us the ability to expand.
And again we're excited about what we believe is the potential of that.
But 2013 is where the big change happens in terms of both volume and distribution gain.
Research Division</strong> And any help in me sort of sizing the prize on what the upside could be? Are you currently around 25% distribution 50% for example? Well we have broad distribution in Canada and then through Costco in North America.
So as we think about bringing on the distribution we would hope to be able to achieve distribution levels consistent with the balance of our brands in the category.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Costco I think is around 10% of U.S.
right now so that sounds like there's a lot of untapped opportunity.
We're very optimistic and excited about what Brookside brings to us.
Research Division</strong> And last question and I'll pass it on.
I don't want to be too much of a time hog here.
China I think last quarter you guys talked about pushing out into Sugar Confection maybe with the JOLLY RANCHERS brand.
Can you give us any updates on that? Well in China this year as well as in 2013 we have a number of different efforts going on in our sugar confectionery business so ICE BREAKERS is certainly one.
We would see the Duos launch also being one that would be relevant in China as well.
So that category is actually doing quite well for us.
And as you know in China sugar confectionery is a significantly larger percentage of the business than chocolate is today.
So we really are focused on having a balanced portfolio sorry of brands and then also recall that we have our R&amp;D center that we hope to have open later this year which should also help us develop products that are very China- and Asia-specific.
Your next question is from Ken Goldman of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So cocoa has stayed quite cheap for a while now.
I know you're loathe to comment on this and I understand why but let me maybe ask the question this way.
If cocoa stays inexpensive versus recent historical levels and if you don't see big increases to your other inputs why should investors maybe not start to think that your input costs late this year and into next year have a chance to be much less of a headwind or even a small tailwind? Is there maybe something we're missing when we're thinking optimistically about this part of COGS? Yes Ken I mean I don't think you're missing anything.
I mean I think the way you've characterized it is reasonable.
Cocoa is down and a couple of the other commodities while still at pretty elevated levels are down.
Versus last year we continue to signal that there is some meaningful inflation year-on-year.
But having said that downward trends in commodities certainly will show up but we don't ordinarily talk about the timing because that's proprietary on our side.
But I think the longer it continues the general optimism is well placed.
Research Division</strong> And then I'm hoping to get a better understanding of how your sales performed maybe in the center of the store where we've seen -- we've seen volumes be such an area of concern for so many of your food manufacturing peers but it sounds maybe from your comments like you did better in the center of the store than the industry has as a whole.
So I guess first am I reading that right? And second if so how did you buck that trend in your view? Well I think you're probably reading it right.
And I think we believe that the category continues to be accessible.
One of the things we say over and over again is that this is one of the most -- it is the largest most profitable confectionery market in the world and happens to have one of the lowest costs per pound.
It has the ability to be an accessible indulgence regardless of what seems to be happening around use.
I would call that resilient certainly not anything recession-proof.
I wouldn't go that far.
But I think this is a unique category.
It has a lot of great qualities.
It has the seasonal events that really bring consumers into the store and get them into the aisle as well as all the other points of distribution that it has.
So again we have programming that's well over 30 weeks out of the year on our brands so they're just broadly available and accessible to consumers and then they can enjoy them without having to sacrifice a lot.
And I always looked at the C-store channel in addition to the balance of retail as a testament to the strength of the category.
The next question is from Rob Moskow of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> My questions have pretty much been asked already but you mentioned that international contributed 2 points of growth.
Can you give us a little more detail on the extent to which that would -- what did the growth look like x Canada? Were you still hitting kind of that 25% kind of growth? Or was it better than that? Well the numbers we gave you would've been x Canada and of course there is a large mix across all the countries.
So some of the countries are obviously doing significantly better than that and a couple modestly below.
But that's really the texture of that business.
We continue to feel very good about our ability to execute against a very basic solid model in each of these marketplaces.
And if you recall from our last call we talked about that these markets have gross margin very similar to our U.S.
business.
And therefore as we continue to go forward it gives us choices around how we invest in those markets and how we can adjust that investment to ensure that we continue to be -- we continue to be productive.
But right now we feel very good about being able to deliver the overall business results we are and still be able to invest differentially in what are some of the most attractive markets around the world.
Research Division</strong> And can I ask a follow-up? On the question earlier about SM&amp;A being up higher in second third and fourth than it will be in first a lot has been talked about how your category management skills have improved.
You've invested in a lot of new tools.
What can you tell us about the types of these investments? Are they just kind of like similar to what you've been doing all along with better technology and better use of data? Or is there something new maybe some new programs that you're introducing to the trade? Yes.
I would say that there's a bit of a combination and it's evolutionary right? I mean in the U.S.
where we've done the most of that work certainly we're further along as you might imply in terms of intellectual capital and the sophistication of the trade and how we collaborate with key retailers.
We do bring that knowledge into other markets.
Some of those markets are not quite as sophisticated at the retail level but the objective is very similar.
It does involve data obviously.
And then it involves the types of insights that you would expect in terms of consumer and shopper.
And so really it's a matter of the level of sophistication but it is focused on intellectual capital and our people and the collaborative nature of how we bring knowledge to retailers to maximize the value of the category certainly our brands but the value of the category in general.
Rob.
Hey Rob one real specific example is if you recall from CAGNY last year we talked a lot about the demand landscape.
We're investing in that work in places like China and some of the other geographies which is really the foundation of the consumer insight and demand landscape work because that's what our overall business model hinges on in terms of the way we go to market.
So we're really expanding some of those programs.
Research Division</strong> But John you also talked about rolling IDP which was a huge success in drug rolling that out to grocery.
I haven't heard much of an update on that.
Can you give us one? Sure.
Today we are probably working with about 6 to 8 of the largest customers on an IDP-type framework which really starts with a long-term strategic -- joint strategic planning.
And then you really go down through a menu of solutions based on what those strategies are -- were for both the retailer and ourselves.
And what I would tell you we're finding is is that the success we're having in those customers which have the tools and we work jointly with performed differentially versus those where we have not rolled out IDP.
So the goal for us is one we have to be prepared ourselves and that's one of the things Bert talked about in terms of investing in intellectual capital and getting people that can interact in these kinds of programs.
And then the same thing happens on the retailer side.
So as we can do more of that we will do more of that.
But we are very encouraged by what we're experiencing and we believe it's fundamental to a number of our successes.
Your next question is from Andrew Lazar of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> First off I'm just trying to get a better idea to the extent you can help us around maybe the magnitude of the sort of the timing shift in the SM&amp;A.
And I only ask this because if we think about some of your guidance on a full year basis for sales and gross margin improvement and some other things it's pretty easy to get to a full year earnings number that's pretty far beyond what your sort of current guidance is.
And I realize it's only 1Q and all of that but the plug there is obviously what that SG&amp;A line looks like for the full year.
So I'm just trying to get a sense of how that might look on a full year basis just so we have a better sense of that? Yes Andrew I certainly think it's more than just the one line in terms of how you're characterizing it with -- and I understand your thought process in terms of where SM&amp;A is in Q1 versus outlook.
There's a definite increase obviously and some timing involved in the SM&amp;A but it's not about programs that we weren't already planning for.
So from that perspective I would say that we haven't added a lot of investment.
If we had we typically would talk about that.
While we're -- while we have food advertising it's still at the low double-digit rates and we expect SM&amp;A not only to kick in more with the new products coming in place but also just the timing of some of the work that we just talked about whether it's demand landscape in other markets or those types of things.
The other thing to point to while we haven't talked a lot about it but I think it's obvious in the comments is the level of price realization which was quite high in Q1 as expected because other than a little bit of Valentine the entire portfolio would benefit from that.
And then you start to lap the price realization.
You start to recover some of the volume.
And so you don't have as much gross margin expansion in the remainder of the year.
By definition we said 180 versus 90 to 100.
So I wouldn't focus overly on the SM&amp;A line and think of it more some of the other moving parts in the P&amp;L.
I would say that's probably the better way to look at it.
And what I can tell you is we think they are the right investments to make and the right markets and that's how we framed up the overall annual outlook.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then it's a smaller channel obviously but in the drug channel I think J.P.
mentioned that there was a sort of a change in the I think category dynamic as you put it.
And I'm just trying to get a better understanding of what you meant by that.
Well I think for us as we've worked with the drug channel there's a couple of things that are going on.
The drug channel was historically very overdeveloped in terms of the percent of seasons that it sold and some of that volume we felt was probably less productive for everybody the retailer as well as us in terms of the way we were going about it.
And so we've been able to I think rebalance some of those efforts to where we're getting much better balance on front-end sales.
We're doing better on the in-aisle part and then I think as we do seasons we're doing seasons smarter and more profitably.
So as we look at what's happening for both the retailer and for us in the way that we go about managing specifically the seasonal sales it's a higher quality sale for everybody I think than maybe it had been historically.
And so that's a bit of the context change there.
And we're very optimistic about the drug channel just in total.
So getting our business as productive as possible there has been really important to us.
And it's taken several years frankly to get to the point where we're at and that's really what I was referencing.
Your next question is from David Driscoll of Citi Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions pretty quick ones though.
First one is on Easter.
Is there anything related to the timing of Easter that would affect the shipment pattern between Q1 and Q2? Was Q1 in any way benefited by better shipments because of the earlier Easter? And I would assume that's all volume-related if it was true.
But you didn't call it out so I'm thinking no but could you just clarify? David it would be relatively modest actually in terms of the changes.
I think one of the things to think about is if you look at the IRI data I think that's through March 17.
Our comments have been around March 24.
We feel very good about the actual sell-in of Easter as a double-digit volume increase.
But we really won't know the answer until we get the May 3 data on what was really the overall outcome of Easter but we would anticipate growing share at Easter.
And our -- as we tumble the numbers and this is a very imperfect science at this point we hope to gain about 0.5 share point over the course of the Easter holiday.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But in terms of from the manufacturer's point of view from your point of view the shipments would've occurred in the first quarter in the year-ago period and they would've occurred in the first quarter this year no matter what the timing -- the exact timing of Easter was in the second quarter.
Is that right? Yes.
I think -- yes I think that's correct.
We just -- I mean there could be an absolute modest amount that would've been different but not really meaningful Dave.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On the SM&amp;A question excluding the marketing expense.
So I think the SM&amp;A budget this year -- or sorry in the first quarter was up like 3% when you exclude marketing and your guidance is -- if I read everything right the guidance is just that simply it will be north of 3% of an increase in the subsequent quarters.
But maybe this is too cryptic for me.
Can you just tell me what you think SM&amp;A is going to be up year-over-year for the full year? Is there any reason why you wouldn't know that right now? Yes.
You're right about the 3% and we would expect it to be more in line with sales growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So SM&amp;A x marketing up something in the magnitude of sales growth.
Because it's only up 3% in the first quarter yet first quarter sales are up 11% that's the timing issue that you were talking about.
Is that right? Yes that's correct.
And so again I want to reiterate we're not -- in the past when we've changed some numbers we've talked about hey and we're increasing our investment versus what we've planned.
That's not the case.
We're making the investments as we've planned them.
The timing is just a little bit different.
And that accounts -- and that applies to both SM&amp;A as well as advertising.
Research Division</strong> And then does this SM&amp;A issue does this drop all the way down to the bottom line? So if $0.81 was consensus and you come in at $0.95 $0.96 depending on how you want to treat the pension cost issue that's $0.14 $0.15 of an earnings peak.
Guidance is only up $0.03.
So is your explanation that the timing of SM&amp;A is the explanatory factor why full year numbers don't rise by the significant beat versus consensus? Yes that's part of it.
And again I mentioned it to -- in response to Andrew's question the pricing is quite different right during the year in terms of if you look at our gross margin of 180 basis point expansion in Q1 and our guidance of 90 to 100 there's a lot -- the pricing as you would expect because it's across the portfolio and you're only starting to lap it in the second quarter is also a contributor.
Your next question is from Bryan Spillane of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just one question and one point of clarification.
First just on the gross margins as we look out the balance of the year so as pricing will be less incremental as we go through the remaining quarters is your cost inflation essentially -- the year-on-year inflation essentially the same in each quarter? Or is there any variability in terms of what you'd expect for inflation from quarter-to-quarter? Bryan it's fairly consistent.
Obviously when we set up our standard costs at the beginning of the year that's a standard that's consistent across the quarters.
If there were some variability to that it would come up as purchase price variance and the fact we haven't talked a lot about that tells you we're pretty close to standard.
The only thing I would say is the first quarter certainly it's our most impacted volume quarter as well.
And we gave the number of about $30 million of inflation so there would be some volume pickup as you get through to third -- second third and fourth quarter so you're going to have a little bit more volume so you may have a little bit more of the cost impact because of that volume but I would say that from a standard perspective it's relatively the same.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then during the course of the first quarter there had been some discussion I guess in the channel about maybe the potential of some competitors either rolling back pricing or not following through completely on all their pricing plans.
And so now you've got sort of the first big holiday under your belt.
Just if you could give any sort of comment on that line of logic and whether or not you've seen anything that would suggest that the industry or some of your competitors may not be following through on all the pricing.
Well first of all we're not going to comment a lot on what we believe other people's pricing strategies are but we continue to execute we believe successfully against the things that we've chosen to do.
We don't see a number of things in the marketplace that would lead us to believe that there's anything different than historically occurs and there's always instances where you could go into an individual store or maybe a regional customer maybe decides to do something unique.
But for the most part we feel comfortable that the course that we've charted is working well for us and we continue to believe that's how we'll execute through the balance of the year.
Your next question is from Chris Growe of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a quick question for you.
I think it's a bit of a follow-up on the price realization.
As we think about the sequential pricing through the year Q3 pricing would that be greater than Q2 pricing because of the degree of seasonal sales in the quarter? Am I looking at it the right way? Yes we'll have some pricing in Q2 and then we'll have some in Q3 as you rightly point out related to Halloween particularly which is when that ships.
So nowhere near in Q1 because in Q1 it applied to everything except for a little bit of Valentine.
So we will have some price realization in 2 a little bit more in 3 and then it really winds down a lot in fourth.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay just wanted to be clear on that.
And then I also -- there was a comment before about a roughly 1.5% benefit to sales from new products.
Is that like a year-over-year calculation for the first quarter? Well when we talk about our growth algorithm on a going basis we want to have 1 point of net growth coming from innovation.
And what we have been experiencing is innovation success greater than that over the last frankly several years.
But I think we were at about 3.5 last year.
I think we're a little bit lower than that this year.
But certainly ahead of the 1-point algorithm that we have for ourself.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And that's -- is that like products from the last year essentially the last 12 months? Or...
Yes the way that we calculate that is in the second year those are not included in terms of innovation so you really look at it net of cannibalization.
And when you calculate that then the numbers that we talk about are really what's happening net of cannibalization in the year -- the second year.
But the way to think of it is that the 10.7 net sales growth that we talked about it's 1.5 points of that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes sure.
Okay.
I guess to -- just to follow up I know there's been a lot of questions on the international investments.
My question to you would be would your profits grow at a materially slower rate for international versus the sales growth this year? Is that your expectation? I'm just trying to frame the level of investment and maybe that's one way to kind of get a little closer to it.
Yes I mean we don't do segment reporting but we try to give some color on international.
We've been trying to give more.
So what I would say is in the key markets where we're growing rapidly the top line as well as investing for future growth that will be true.
I mean we're largely in a reinvest mode.
So while we're -- as J.P.
already mentioned we're very conscious of our gross margin in those markets.
It's really less about profit contribution.
If I could just build on that comment for a second is that when you think about our business model there's 5 or 6 markets around the world that have GDP growth of greater than 5% some significantly greater than that.
And those are really the markets that we're focused on.
So in terms of quality and attractive growth for us in these markets with attractive gross margins which again gives us choices on how and when we choose to invest it's really a very attractive model versus having legacy businesses.
I mean if we all looked this morning at some of the news items coming out of Europe certainly there are some drags on businesses there.
And hopefully we'll be able to continue to grow at an attractive business level in markets that have the best growth potential of any of the markets we have and continue to execute in a smart way building brands with -- behind really strong consumer insight.
So I think it's why we continue to feel very very good about our approach.
And so hopefully we'll be able to continue to see that we'll achieve the international growth targets that we've set and maintain a very healthy business at home.
Your next question is from Matthew Drizer [ph] of Morgan Stanley.
So just 2 quick questions.
First I wanted to ask specifically about the special pleasures health and wellness product.
Can you give us a sense of how this might be positioned from a pricing standpoint how material you expect it to be? Is this something that you're looking at more as a niche product? Or should we be looking for relatively broad distribution and a significant push behind the product? Well we would expect to gain broad distribution behind the product.
It's more of a trade-up type product in terms of its pricing and we don't position it necessarily as health and wellness as much as it is an indulgent chocolate that has fewer calories than if you were to look at a solid milk chocolate bar.
So the truffle center -- it's more like a truffle technology the center.
The cream there is very low calorie and so it gives you a unique experience in terms of eat that it's a very melty creamy-type taste and then it has this center fill.
So the way to think about the 30% lower calories is that versus other chocolate products in the category the average chocolate products in the category it has fewer calories yet a very indulgent experience.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So from a distribution standpoint it's a product that you think will have traction immediately but may gain more distribution over sort of the course of a 12- to 18-month period.
Yes we would see that the product gets broader distribution over time but we would expect it to get all the time and attention that all of our launches get.
Yes and we probably wouldn't see that across all channels.
I mean it would primarily maybe be focused in food and drug out of the gate as we educate the consumer about it because there is that process to it.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And secondly I was just hoping you could provide a quick update on the key export markets and how these are performing relative to the core international markets.
How much of a benefit are you getting if any from undemanding prior year comparisons in Japan and sort of selected markets in the Middle East? Yes I would say that our -- we've already commented in the past that's a very profitable part of our international component.
And it's growing nicely as we anticipated.
To be specific certainly Japan has rebounded.
Last year they had the catastrophe so that we're certainly seeing above average growth in Japan because of the -- last year's tsunami and a little bit of the opposite in the Middle East because of some of the turmoil.
But overall very good.
Continue to penetrate new markets in Latin America and other parts of the world but it's a good business for us.
But specifically the 2 markets that you mentioned one certainly with a rebound because of prior year and the other about the same.
Again it's a very profitable model for us in terms of our export business.
Your next question is from Alexia Howard of Sanford C.
Bernstein.
This is Gretchen Guo calling for Alexia and I just wanted to quickly ask about India.
You had mentioned some of your other focused markets mainly China and Brazil which have grown about 20% but we didn't hear too much about India.
Can you just talk a little bit about that market and perhaps an update on the Godrej JV? Well we grew again in our India business this quarter so we certainly felt good about that.
We continue to be optimistic about the potential of the India market.
And I'll add over time we have India classified as a market that we want to participate in.
We certainly don't want to get out over our skis there and we're not commenting on the JV.
Certainly we've all seen different things in the press but there's really nothing new to say there from the things that we've said before.
So at the current point in time we feel good about the progress we're making there and we're learning a lot.
Your next question is from Thilo Wrede of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions for you.
You mentioned comments on gas [ph] that consumer behavior these days is -- due to high gas prices is different from what's happened in the past.
What's your explanation why consumers are much less affected by gas prices these days? Yes I would say there are a couple of factors.
On the one hand I think the last time that we looked at that impact would have been back in '08 where we saw a very rapid spike in prices.
And while prices are not any more attractive than they were back then it's been less of what we would think of as a spike and we think that the consumers adjust to that in a different way than they do to the spike.
Having said that consumers are sometimes not filling up the tank and we see some -- we saw some of that conversation on the CNBC show that J.P.
mentioned where they may take more frequent trips and that tends to help our category as they come into the store.
So we do think it's the shock factor.
We also think that while unemployment is not at a good level there has been some improvement in the U.S.
economy in the first quarter.
You've seen the consumer numbers in the first quarter all around.
We're somewhat better despite the higher gas prices so we just think the consumers has adjusted to them better than they have in the past.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second one a small modeling question.
You bought back significant amount of shares and exhausted a good amount of your authorization.
Are you still expecting to do share repurchases for the rest of the year? Or are you done? Yes we don't comment on the specific timing of those repurchases.
Certainly we have 125 million that's still authorized so we'll execute against that in consultation with our board.
Your next question is from John Baumgartner of Telsey Advisory Group.
J.P.
can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing from the food channel and what's driving that share loss there? Do I understand it correctly that it's primarily the timing of innovation between yourselves and competitors? Or is there something else going on there? Yes.
I don't have any concerns around the fundamentals of our business in the food channel.
I think essentially what we're seeing is that we're lapping some very strong innovation in the first part of the previous year base.
There was a lot of competitive activity in terms of introduction of new items in the first quarter and we've made a conscious decision that in Q2 and Q3 is where we'll be focused more around the new items that we have.
And then you have the other aspect of it is that the whole price conversion and all adds so much noise to the system that I kind of on this tend to look at the total and make sure that the fundamentals are good.
So if you were to look at the first quarter from a quality merchandising and featuring standpoint our competitors would have certainly won that share of voice.
And we would hope that we'd continue to be able to do the same in Q2 and Q3 as we introduce the things we have.
So while it's never fun to lose share I don't see it as something that would fall outside of just the fundamentals of our business and I think we'll continue to do well as we go through the year.
And then the other comment I would just make broadly across our businesses and coming back to IDP is we feel very good about the financial performance of the company and we believe that over time we continue to deliver quality share and quality share growth and sometimes you can look at numbers that they might feel good but they may not be the best quality result.
And we're pretty confident that the results we're delivering are quality results.
Okay.
And then in terms of the Simple Pleasures if you were to benchmark that in terms of more recent launches I guess like the Drops or the Minis I mean it seems like you're expecting a smaller impact out of the gate for Simple Pleasures.
Is that fair? Well Minis is definitely a home run.
So I wish I could have one of those every single time and certainly that's probably not always going to be the case.
But with this one anytime you have something new so whether it be Air Delight whether it be something like Simple Pleasures you're really building a platform that the consumer has to learn what it is.
So trial is important and getting people to then of course repeat is fundamental.
So it's a little bit longer of a story on those type of brands when you launch those first than something that's a big driver around a core brand.
And then this is in a standup patch so there's no inter-consumable [ph] version either.
So by default you have a bit of a difference there as well.
But we're committed to try to build these brands as best we can.
And again I would just remind you versus our long-term algorithm as we continue to see how we're doing in innovation we're doing better on a sustainable basis within our innovation than we have in some time.
The next question is from Eric Katzman of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess let's go back to Dave Driscoll's question and maybe Andrew Lazar because I'm not exactly sure Bert that I get the guidance.
So if you're up 10% to 11% 12% that's like 20 -- that's like $0.30 a share.
You did most of that this quarter.
You're saying that your SM&amp;A spending really hasn't changed gross margins are a bit better but that all works out to be just a couple of pennies for the rest of the year per quarter.
So is that really what you're saying that it's just a couple of pennies of growth in earnings per share each quarter? Yes Eric I appreciate the question.
And again I'm not going to say anything different than I said before.
We've planned a certain amount of investment in the business this year.
There is some timing related to first quarter versus rest of year and we continue with those plans which we think is the right thing to do for the business both short-term and long-term.
You are seeing some uptick in terms of the guidance on the bottom line.
It is partially the price realization that's coming through which we think is a bit better and a little bit more volume on the top line.
So that's the way the math works.
I'm not sure how else to try to answer that.
Research Division</strong> Well I mean it's just -- I don't want to beat a dead horse but it just -- it's either -- it seems to me either your investment spending in some of these initiatives is higher than you originally expected or you're just being incredibly conservative.
Because otherwise I'm just not sure how exactly the math works if you already were call it $0.15 to $0.20 of that $0.30 has already been put into the bank.
Yes for the most part I would say that the investment profile in terms of total SM&amp;A as we planned it through the year with obviously with the timing thing we've already talked about is largely in line with how we started the year's thinking.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just more of a broader industry question for J.P.
Kraft is obviously going to Acosta for their grocery company.
I was just with General Mills and McCormick had an Analyst Day and they talked about how kind of similar to you if anything they're investing more in their own kind of sales force and in-store capability.
And so I guess maybe for somebody -- or for a company that I guess has been really pushing this initiative from when Rick took over to Dave to now you what do you see as like the potential advantage of using a third-party distributor as opposed to the in-house capability because it seems like the industry is -- like some players are going one way and the other players are going the complete opposite? Yes.
I can't really speak for how other folks have really thought about it but I can tell you that from a philosophical standpoint I am a strong supporter of having our own organization and our future being in our hands.
So we believe -- as you've heard us say many many times our sales organization we believe has a strategic advantage.
We can move on a dime.
Our people are passionate about the results we get.
Every one of them can tell you that winning is visible when you walk out of a store.
You don't have to have somebody give you 100 metrics to understand if you've won or not; you can recognize it easily.
And so we just feel very very strongly about the commitment we have to our own people and the passion they have for our brand.
You could do all kinds of analysis around what is the financial comparison et cetera.
And all I know is that when we stand up in front of our troops at those national sales meetings once a year I couldn't be more proud to be associated with those people than I am every time I'm with them.
And so I guess on my watch never say never but as far as I'm concerned we'll fight the battle with our own guys.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And Bert if I could have just one quick follow-up.
I think you said that elasticity on the everyday business was what you had expected in terms of volume.
Was it down like mid-single digits or low-single digits? What do you mean by it was like in line with what you had expected? Yes it would be low-single digits to characterize it.
And yes it was in line with how we think -- with how we were expecting it.
But I would -- the only thing I would say is we look at it across package across channels so every one of them is imperfect but by and large yes low-single digits and a little better than we expected but not by a lot.
And your final question comes from John Feeney of Janney Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones.
First how do you think about dividends versus share repurchase? I apologize if that's been asked.
I missed a few minutes of the call but I know certainly with the performance in the stock the yields a little lower and certainly there's some cash flow.
Yes in terms of how we think about cash deployment clearly we're always conscious of what we think we need to run the business in terms of day-to-day operational and strategic investments.
We're very much committed to the dividend.
We think that's a good way to give back to shareholders.
We increased it 10% back in February.
And as a result you're right.
I mean the stock has performed well.
So I'm not going to apologize for the low yield at this stage but they're equally [indiscernible]...
Research Division</strong> Because you got there the good way.
Right.
They're equally important to us and again we did execute against some of the buyback and we'll continue to talk to our board to see how we want to treat the rest of the authorization.
But currently the dividend is an important element for us.
Okay.
And just a follow-up for Bert.
You mentioned that you don't break out segments.
I don't know how the rules work or how you look at it as a judgment call but at what point do you anticipate breaking out international as a segment...
Yes the way the rules works -- the way the rules work clearly is based on size of business and a number of other factors.
If you take a look at the accounting pronouncements right now we're a little bit below what those rules would require for segment but I suspect we'll be reporting segments certainly in the future as the international business grows.
From a complexity standpoint again it's not that we couldn't.
We certainly are accounting folks who are capable of doing that.
We're not required to so at this stage we've just chosen to stay with our current requirements but I think it's pretty predictable that there's going to come a time when we will report segments.
All right.
Well thank you for joining us for today's conference call.
And Matt Miller and myself will be available for any follow-up questions that you may have.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Tabitha and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Hershey Company Second Quarter 2012 Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Pogharian you may begin your conference.
Thank you Tabitha.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to The Hershey Company second quarter 2012 conference call.
J.P.
Bilbrey President and CEO; Bert Alfonso Senior Vice President and CFO; and I will represent Hershey on this morning's call.
We also welcome those of you listening via the webcast.
Let me remind everyone listening that today's conference call may contain statements which are forward-looking.
These statements are based on current expectations which are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements because of factors such as those listed in this morning's press release and in our 10-K for 2011 filed with the SEC.
If you have not seen the press release a copy is posted on our corporate website in the Investor Relations section.
Included in the press release is a consolidated balance sheet and summary of consolidated statements of income prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Within the Notes section of the press release we have provided adjusted pro forma reconciliations of select income statement line items quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.
As we've said within the note the company uses these non-GAAP measures as key metrics for evaluating performance internally.
These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP.
Rather the company believes the presentation of earnings excluding certain items provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations.
We will discuss 2012 second quarter results excluding net pre-tax charges of $24.9 million or $0.07 per share-diluted which are primarily related to the Project Next Century program.
Our discussion of any future projections will also exclude the impact of these net charges non-service-related pension expense and acquisition and integration costs related to Brookside Foods.
With that out of the way let me now turn the call over to J.P.
Bilbrey.
Thanks Mark.
I want to thank all of you on the phone and the webcast for joining us today.
Today I'm pleased to report that The Hershey Company had another strong quarter with strong marketplace performance.
We achieved market share gains in virtually all classes of trade.
Total Hershey's CMG that's candy mint and gum retail takeaway for the year-to-date period through June 16 2012 in channels that account for about 90% of our U.S.
retail business was up 6.1% resulting in a 0.3-point market share again.
As a reminder this is x AOC+C-store data consisting of the food drug mass x and C-store channels plus the inclusion of Walmart and partial Dollar Club and Military channels.
Our results for the second quarter were solid as net sales increased 6.7% and adjusted EPS-diluted grew 17.9%.
Bert will provide you with all of the financial details.
But as it relates to net sales growth was primarily driven by net price realization.
New product contributed about 2 points to our quarterly sales growth while everyday core volume was off about 3 points.
In terms of marketplace performance the reported IRI and Nielsen second quarter the 12-week period ended June 16 does not encompass the entire Easter season in both the year-ago and current periods.
Therefore my remarks today will refer to year-to-date marketplace performance for the 24 weeks ended June 16 2012.
As it relates to Easter we had good sell-through and gained Easter market share of 0.9 points in the xAOC universe.
We won Easter for the fourth consecutive year and our market share in this key season expanded to about 36%.
Although note that the shorter Easter season in 2012 versus 2011 is a headwind to our overall chocolate market share performance this year.
Now for some further details on our overall year-to-date marketplace performance.
Hershey marketplace performance by segment is progressing as planned.
Recall the year-ago period benefited from our major product launches primarily Reese's Minis and Hershey's Drops that occurred early in the year.
Our more significant 2012 innovation builds in Q2 and beyond and we expect this will have a favorable impact on our marketplace performance in the second half of the year.
xAOC+C-store CMG year-to-date category growth is up a solid 5.1%.
The combined segments of chocolate non-chocolate and mints grew 6.9% while gum declined about 3.5%.
Growth by channel has varied.
However the confectionery category is advantaged and ubiquitous.
While we focus on all points of distribution we've been flexible and focused on our efforts and resources with faster-growing customers and classes of trade.
Specifically year-to-date CMG growth in the expanded xAOC universe which includes Walmart partial Dollar Club and Military increased 7.4%.
Hershey retail takeaway was solid across all of these channels.
For the year-to-date period ended June 16 2012 xAOC+C-store chocolate category growth was up plus 6.1%.
xAOC+C-store chocolate retail takeaway for Hershey was plus 4.3% with market share off 0.7 points.
As I mentioned earlier and as planned Hershey's chocolate performance was impacted by a shorter Easter period and the timing of chocolate new product launches as well as in-store promotions and programming.
We have solid plans in place over the remainder of the year supporting new products in our core chocolate business and expect our chocolate marketplace performance to improve sequentially in the second half.
Year-to-date xAOC+C-store non-chocolate category growth was up 8.5%.
Here we lead the way.
And Hershey's non-chocolate xAOC+C-store retail takeaway was up 16.9% resulting in a market share gain of 1.1 points.
The solid performance was driven by continued TWIZZLERS momentum including the twisted summers promotion and the new Jolly Rancher Crunch 'N Chew product.
In the C-store class of trade CMG year-to-date category growth was up 8.8%.
Total Hershey C-store performance was particularly strong with takeaway up plus 10.6% resulting in a share gain of 0.5 points.
Hershey's C-store performance was balanced with retail takeaway up 9.7% 16.2% and 19.4% in chocolate non-chocolate and mints.
These gains were driven by pricing new products core brand advertising and merchandising and programming including our promotional tie-in with The Avengers movie.
Convenience stores will be an important contributor to our marketplace performance in the second half but as we lap the price increase we would expect the growth rate to temper over the remainder of the year.
I'd like to make a note that Nielsen C-store service in the first half of the year was based on a sample of 12 000 C-stores with a mixture of scan and audit data collections.
Nielsen C-store service for the second half of the year will increase by 7 000 chain C-stores with all sample stores providing scan data.
Therefore we could see some slight changes in C-store retail trends over the remainder of the year from this improved service that is more focused on additional chain C-stores.
As it relates to our 2012 innovation recall that it's balanced between chocolate and sweets and refreshment.
The launch and rollout of new items such as Jolly Rancher Crunch 'N Chew ICE BREAKERS DUO Rolo Minis and Hershey's Simple Pleasures are tracking as expected and as I mentioned were a net positive to the top line.
Although ICE BREAKERS DUO and Simple Pleasures got on shelf late in Q2 we believe they have yet to have an impact on our marketplace results.
Let me provide you with some additional new product details.
In the non-chocolate segment Jolly Rancher Crunch 'N Chew year-to-date takeaway in the xAOC+C-store channels is tracking as expected making this product the largest non-chocolate candy launch this year.
While early ICE BREAKERS DUO is showing strong end-market performance.
ACV distribution is building and will close by our target at the end of July.
Importantly ICE BREAKERS DUO is experiencing good initial trial and extremely strong repeat.
Advertising and sampling started in the mid-July and we think there could be upside to our initial plan.
Rolo Minis launched in late March and is our latest extension in the hand-to-mouth space.
It achieved fast distribution and is tracking ahead of expectations for both trial and repeat.
Additionally core Rolo brand performance is up versus last year and in late July we'll activate TV advertising on this brand for the first time in over 25 years.
Initial distribution of Simple Pleasures is on target.
This FDMx-specific product is garnering merchandising and programming at select customers.
Marketing plans are in place including advertising and a high-value FSI in mid-August to drive trial and repeat.
In addition to our innovation over the remainder of the year we have many exciting promotions programs and merchandising events in place across all of our channels.
Some of the activity we have planned includes S'mores programming that will run throughout the key summer dates and into fall tailgating; a couple of TWIZZLERS summer programs one is tied into the Spiderman movie and another that will award a lucky consumer a chance to win a new car filled with their favorite TWIZZLER products; as well as the summer Reese's and Coca-Cola promotion.
Outside of the U.S.
our international business is on track especially in geographies of China Mexico and Brazil.
In China Hershey continues to be one of the fastest-growing international chocolate companies as our chocolate growth rate is double the category in the cities where we're focused.
In Mexico we've seen strong growth in the Hershey's and KISSES franchise and on sweets and refreshments.
Our Pelon Pelo Rico net sales are up double digits on a percentage basis driven by the introduction of the Peloneta lollipop.
In Brazil we continue to make good progress.
And following our distribution gains we'll begin advertising in additional cities during 2012.
Given the volatility in the financial markets we've updated our estimates for the full year related to the strong U.S.
dollar.
In our key international markets we still expect double-digit reported net sales growth for the full year but it is less than our earlier outlook and year-ago due to the impact of foreign currency exchange rates.
As we outlined at our investor update last month we'll continue our disciplined investments in distribution and go-to-market capabilities in these key markets that continue to drive solid local currency and marketplace results.
Now to wrap up.
I'm pleased with the way the confectionery category and Hershey continue to perform in the marketplace.
Macroeconomic challenges still exist.
However we feel good about the performance of the confectionery category.
Shipments of back-to-school and Halloween essentially had no year-over-year impact in Q2.
To date retail customer Halloween orders are on track with our outlook.
Similar to Easter we believe we have the right mix of seasonal-specific advertising couponing and programming.
Over the remainder of the year we're confident that our innovation advertising and in-store execution will continue to drive top line growth.
As previously mentioned advertising will increase low double digits on a percentage basis versus last year supporting U.S.
and international brand-building initiatives.
Our plans are on track and we expect organic volume growth to accelerate in the second half of the year and be up for the full year 2012.
Therefore including estimated net sales of the Brookside acquisition about a 1.5-point benefit at current exchange rates we expect full year net sales growth of about 7% to 9% including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates.
Bert will provide further details but given our gross margin gains and SM&amp;A investments to be made over the remainder of the year we have increased our full year adjusted earnings per share-diluted outlook and expect it to increase 12% to 14%.
I'll now turn it over to Bert who will provide some additional detail on our financial results.
Thanks J.P.
and good morning everyone.
I am pleased to report that Hershey posted another strong quarter.
Consolidated net sales in the second quarter totaled $1.41 billion up 6.7% versus the prior year.
Adjusted earnings per share-diluted of $0.66 up 17.9% versus a year ago was better than our expectations primarily due to solid gross margin and earlier resolution of certain tax items.
I have more on each of these points shortly.
Net price realization primarily in the U.S.
increased 6.6 points in the quarter and slightly better than expectations.
Excluding a 2.4-point benefit from the Brookside acquisition net volume declined 1.1 points.
Note that in the U.S.
new products contributed about 2 points of growth while everyday core was off about 3 points.
While relatively in line with historical volume elasticity Q2 core volume was slightly lower than our assumption when we last spoke.
Finally foreign currency exchange rates were unfavorable by 1.2 points.
Turning now to gross margins.
During the second quarter adjusted gross margin increased 170 basis points driven by greater-than-expected net price realization supply chain efficiencies and productivity gains which were partially offset by higher input costs of approximately $25 million.
Commodity spot markets continued to be volatile and we expect that volatility to continue in the upcoming months.
As previously stated we have good visibility into our cost structure and there is no material change in our full year inflation outlook.
Given our gross margin gains for the first 6 months of the year we now expect adjusted gross margin to increase 100 to 120 basis points versus our previous estimate of 90 to 100 basis points.
In the second quarter adjusted earnings before interest and income taxes or EBIT increased about 9% resulting in an adjusted EBIT margin of 17.5% up about 40 basis points versus last year.
As expected SM&amp;A excluding advertising increased mid-teens on a percentage basis versus last year.
Over the remainder of the year we expect SM&amp;A expenses excluding advertising to increase 15% to 20% in the third quarter but lower in the fourth quarter.
These planned investments are primarily concentrated in marketing and go-to-market capabilities in both the U.S.
and international markets as well as expenses related to our new R&amp;D center in China and other employee-related costs.
Advertising expense in Q2 increased about 10% versus the year-ago period.
For the first 6 months of 2012 advertising was up about 12% versus 2011 and in line with low double-digit percentage increase forecasted for the full year.
Now let me provide an update of our international businesses.
On a reported basis net sales in our targeted focus markets Mexico China Brazil and India were about flat due to the impact of foreign currency exchange rates.
Despite the stronger U.S.
dollar on a local currency basis we're pleased with our overall sales performance in these markets.
Our business has continued to grow above category growth rates.
And on a percentage basis local currency net sales were up solid double digits in China and Mexico and high single digits in Brazil.
The investments we've made in these target markets are enabling our brands to gain momentum in the marketplace.
We'll continue to make disciplined investments in these markets over the remainder of the year to drive brand awareness and trial.
For the full year 2012 we expect reported net sales outside of the U.S.
and Canada to increase about 15% in line with our strategic plan including the negative impact of foreign exchange.
Operating income outside the U.S.
and Canada was down in the second quarter due mostly to the net season -- net sale seasonalization of our focus markets.
Moving down the P&amp;L.
For the quarter interest expense was in line with the expectations coming in at $24.3 million versus $23.4 million in the prior period.
For the full year 2012 we continue to expect interest expense to be approximately $95 million to $105 million.
The adjusted tax rate for the second quarter was 32% lower than a year ago and the outlook we provided in April.
Various tax audits were concluded in the second quarter that we had planned for in the second half of the year.
As a result we expect the tax rate to be higher in the third quarter and below the annual average in Q4.
For the full year we continue to expect the tax rate to be slightly below 35%.
In the second quarter of 2012 weighted average shares outstanding on a diluted basis were 228.9 million versus 230.3 million in 2011 leading to adjusted earnings per share-diluted of $0.66 up 17.9% versus year-ago.
Let me now provide a quick recap of the year-to-date adjusted results.
Net sales increased 8.9% in the first half.
Adjusted EBIT increased 19.6% resulting in an adjusted EBIT margin gain of 180 basis points to 19.6% from 17.8%.
Advertising increased 12% on a year-to-date basis in line with the low double-digit percentage increase forecasted for the full year.
Year-to-date adjusted gross margin was 45 -- 44.5% versus 42.7% last year or 180 basis points higher as net price realization and productivity more than offset commodity costs.
Adjusted earnings per share-diluted in the first half increased 26% to $1.62 per share.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow.
At the end of the second quarter net trading capital increased versus last year's second quarter by $200 million.
Accounts receivable was up $56 million primarily due to higher June sales year-on-year in part due to the timing of last year's price increase.
Accounts receivable aging remains extremely current.
Inventory increased $133 million year-over-year primarily due to production associated with the Project Next Century transition and the timing of strategic purchases of key ingredients.
Over the remainder of the year we expect these items to work through the system and year-end 2012 inventory will be about at 2011 ending levels.
And finally accounts payable decreased $11 million primarily due to lower capital spend levels.
In terms of other specific cash flow items capital additions including software were $56 million in the quarter.
These amounts include Project Next Century capital expenditures of $12 million.
In 2012 we expect the ongoing CapEx to be approximately $240 million to $250 million excluding Project Next Century.
Our total 2012 CapEx estimate of $305 million to $320 million includes Project Next Century capital of approximately $65 million to $70 million.
Depreciation and amortization was $55 million in the second quarter.
This includes accelerated depreciation related to Project Next Century of approximately $6 million.
In 2012 we are forecasting total operating depreciation and amortization of about $195 million to $205 million consistent with our previous estimates.
Dividends paid during the quarter were $84 million.
We did not acquire any stock in the second quarter related to the current share repurchase program or replace shares issued in connection with stock option exercises.
Cash on hand at the end Q2 was $590 million.
And as we exit the second quarter we are well positioned to support the seasonal working capital needs of the business which peak in the third quarter.
Let me now provide an update on Project Next Century.
We are pleased with the progress we've made at the West Hershey plant expansion.
Construction and line installation are largely complete and our current focus is on line performance optimization.
The forecast for total pre-tax GAAP charges and non-recurring project implementation costs related to the program has been increased from $150 million to $160 million to $160 million to $180 million due to higher-than-expected disposition costs of the legacy facility.
The higher projected costs could increase further if severed employee withdrawals from the pension plan in the second half of the year exceed certain accounting threshold levels which trigger a pension settlement charge.
Importantly any pension settlement charges would be noncash.
By 2014 we continue to expect ongoing annual savings to be approximately $65 million to $80 million.
Now let me summarize.
As we enter the third quarter we are well positioned to deliver on our financial objectives.
As stated earlier we expect full year advertising expenses to increase low-double digits on a percentage basis versus last year to support seasons new product launches and core brands in both the U.S.
and international markets.
Our plans are on track and we expect organic volume growth to accelerate in the second half and be up for the full year.
Therefore including an estimated 1.5-point net sales benefit from the Brookside acquisition we expect 2012 net sales including the impact of foreign exchange to increase 7% to 9%.
We expect that commodity markets will remain volatile.
However we have visibility into our cost structure.
While we continue to anticipate higher input costs there is no change in our full year inflation outlook.
As previously mentioned due to greater-than-expected net price realization we now expect the adjusted gross margin to increase 100 to 120 basis points.
As stated earlier for the full year 2012 we expect SM&amp;A expenses including -- excluding advertising to increase low double digits on a percentage basis versus last year.
We will continue to make planned investments in marketing and go-to-market capabilities in both the U.S.
and international markets.
As a result we now expect 2012 earnings per share-diluted growth of 12% to 14% greater than our previous estimate of 12 -- of 10% to 12%.
Before we go to Q&amp;A I'd like to provide a recap of the timing of unique items discussed earlier that will impact Q3 and Q4.
So as you work your models please note the following: Over the remainder of the year we expect organic net sales contribution from net price realization and volume to be more balanced as we lap the price increase.
Therefore gross margin gains in the second half of the year will be less than the year-to-date gains.
In the third quarter we expect SM&amp;A expense excluding advertising to increase 15% to 20%.
And we expect the effective tax rate in Q3 to be higher than the annual rate.
As a result of all these moving parts and higher SM&amp;A in Q3 we would expect Q4 to drive EPS in the second half.
We'll now open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> How would you describe the overall category innovation environment right now not just from you but your competitors? Because -- I'm asking because your market share gains are impressive across the board.
I'm trying to get a sense of whether you're seeing competitors innovate as you'd expect them to or whether we're in a period where maybe some of your competitors are off their game.
And I don't really know.
I'm just curious if in your opinion you're beating the best at their best or whether we should expect a tougher challenge going forward.
I know that -- I know this requires a subjective answer.
I'm just curious how you see things at the moment in that regard.
Yes.
Sure Ken.
Well first of all it always feels like we're competing against the best every day.
But I think the innovation in the category we're seeing a little bit more of a tick-up than we have over the last couple of years.
And just kind of to put things in perspective I feel really good about the overall category growth.
I think the fundamentals in the category are good.
Our competitors had solid innovation in the first quarter.
Our second quarter innovation was very much around some of our sweets and refreshments brands.
And therefore you had a little bit of a difference between what our innovation looked like versus some of the competitors' innovation.
But I think it's really good for the -- I think it's really good for the category.
The final point I would just make from our standpoint is is that our overall growth algorithm is to have about 1 point of growth from innovation.
We feel good that we're probably going to this year be well above that probably in the 1.5-plus point range and we were better than that last year.
So I think -- I think it's a good environment.
And we have tough competitors and they're doing well but I think that's good for everybody.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one more.
I think last year you had if memory serves fewer Halloween products offered.
I don't think there was -- you didn't do the harvest packaging after Halloween I think.
Did you address some of those issues? How should we think about how you're feeling about that season and correcting maybe some of the problems you had last year? Yes we're correcting for those things and we feel really good about the visibility we have to Halloween and the holidays for the balance of the year.
Remember one of the things you don't want to do is win share the week after those holiday events because that's when all of the significant markdowns are.
So I think we're getting better and better every time.
It's selling what we believe the consumer is looking to consume and it continues to work well for retailers and we continue to grow well in the seasons and perform how we would like.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> With I guess much of the EPS upside in the second half that you expect looking to come from continued gross margin-related strength I'm just curious is that -- is that still going to be driven by sort of what you saw in this quarter which is I guess a bit better-than-anticipated pricing coming through at least relative to when you had started the whole sort of pricing action last year? Andrew I think I would characterize it a little bit different than that.
If you think about -- we're looking for sales to come in again in that 7% to 9% range.
We're slightly ahead of that at the halfway point mostly because we had a very strong first quarter and we had the pricing on the Easter holiday.
But again that still calls for good sales performance in the back half.
The pricing will actually play a smaller role in Qs 3 and 4 because we've completely lapped it at this stage other than the Halloween and holiday period.
And so we've averaged probably about 170 to 175 basis points of gross margin in the first half of the year.
We will expect that obviously given our outlook of 100 to 120 to be somewhat less specifically because of the -- of pricing playing a smaller role.
The counter to that is we certainly expect volumes to start accelerating and be more balanced between price and volume in the back half which we haven't seen as much year-to-date.
SM&amp;A I commented specifically on third quarter.
We were -- we actually underspent a bit as you recall in the first quarter due to some timing.
We're back to sort of where we thought we'd be.
It's a little higher than the third quarter so earnings in the back half driven by top line a little bit lighter -- a little bit less gross margin due to lower price realization a bit of investment behind the business to give us continued momentum against new products.
And we think fourth quarter EPS is -- on a comparable basis will sequentially be better than third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The reason I asked is just because given the $0.05 raise to the full year a good part of that comes in the second half which is still operating upside in the second half of the year.
So I certainly understand what drove some of the upside in the second quarter the margin side.
I was just trying to get a better sense for what drives the rest of that upside in the back half.
And I guess it's really just more of a combination of still obviously some of the pricing although less significant in the first half and then volumes starting to come back into a better balance into growth mode.
Does that I guess make sense? Yes that's exactly right.
I -- that's exactly the way I would put it.
We continue to get some pricing.
But with the volume recovery there we're expecting despite the additional investment that gives us the ability to upgrade the EPS outlook for the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted ask you -- you gave a number early on J.P.
about -- when you were discussing the revenue growth for the quarter and I think you said like a 2% benefit from new products and sort of your core down 3%.
Was that referenced -- referencing just the U.S.? Or was that an overall comment for the company? It's really a total number but it's reflective of the U.S.
business so...
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess my only question in relation to that would be that international should have been a pretty solid contributor to that on a volume basis.
And I just want to understand kind of how international played.
And you mentioned I think double-digit reported growth but closer to maybe flat growth if you include FX in the quarter if I heard that properly.
Yes.
From a volume perspective international would've been a net plus.
So we specifically -- we specifically broke out the U.S.
piece just to be more transparent.
But Chris international isn't a big driver in the second quarter as much as some of it is -- some of the business is seasonal related so there is -- you will probably see international being a bigger driver of quarterly results in the first and in the fourth.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Due to holidays and seasonal I assume.
Correct.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just another question for you just to be clear on the SM&amp;A sort of guidance from here.
You've indicated a pretty solid growth in SM&amp;A in the third quarter.
I'm sorry if I missed it but how should we expect the fourth quarter SM&amp;A x advertising to -- would that be down in the quarter? It won't be down in the quarter but it will be below the second quarter levels.
And we said second quarter was sort of mid-teens.
Third quarter is a little higher.
3 is up -- 3 up from 2 but 4 down from 2.
Your next question comes from the line of Rob Moskow with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to know is there -- as you head into fourth quarter the guidance I think implies kind of a deceleration in EPS growth which I think is totally fine.
But I want to know are you planning on doing any kind of reinvestment in fourth quarter? Sometimes that happens when you're heading into a really strong year.
Right now our reinvestment plans are pretty close to plan.
So I wouldn't say that as a result of a strong first half that we've decided to increase higher than planned rates.
There is a tax impact obviously in the third quarter but we're getting the benefit in the second because of just the resolution of a couple of tax audits that we thought would come in the back half of the year.
So I wouldn't characterize our investments in the back half while they're stronger than the first half as being in addition to what we thought we would be doing early in the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a follow-up.
You have obviously very good visibility into Halloween.
What about convenience stores in the back half? That's been a huge driver of growth.
Do you have visibility there? Is the momentum -- do you expect the momentum just to continue? And what are your customers saying? Well we have strong programming throughout the balance of the year certainly that's C-store focused.
We continue to see strength in the channel and so we feel really good about what our planning looks like and we can -- we continue to hear pretty optimistic commentary from our retailers as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So I apologize in advance juggling a couple of balls here so I hope you didn't already comment on this.
But volume this quarter -- I think last quarter you were expecting it to be roughly flat.
It's a little bit softer than that.
Not trying to make a mountain out of a molehill here but can you just help me understand where the shortfall was? Sure.
First of all I would go back to the earlier comment I made about the category continues to perform well.
We feel good about the fundamentals.
We saw a little bit lower merchandising on our brands in the quarter than we do -- we did versus the previous quarter which confirms for us some of the broad-based success of innovation in the category.
So as we look at what we were lapping what our programming was we probably came in a little bit different than we did.
Also remember when we talk about innovation even though that's on major brands and then we talk about the core volume those are still core brands.
So if you combine those 2 it's also really about 1 point there.
FDMx was a little softer for us than was the balance but again we grew.
So I felt fairly good about that and while we would like to grow share in every category in perpetuity we might not actually be able to do that so...
Research Division</strong> And one quick follow-up.
I really appreciate the increased disclosure in terms of sales growth outside of North America.
Can you add any commentary in terms of where we sit in terms of profit inflection there? Yes.
In terms of our international business the second quarter I think Mark mentioned it it's our lowest quarter internationally.
You don't have Chinese New Year.
Easter's big in a couple of the markets particularly Brazil a little bit in Mexico.
And so the second quarter tends to be our low quarter and we continue to invest at a pretty good pace as we build infrastructure in the selling and what have you.
So we're actually outside of U.S.
and Canada operating income net down.
It's different from market to market.
In markets where we've been longer whether you talk about Mexico or Brazil we tend to have a little bit more.
In markets like China where we're in a pretty strong reinvest mode I'd say we're still a little bit further away.
Now we can flex that as we think is necessary given the market conditions.
But right now we're seeing great top line growth and we think making the strong investments now is the right thing to do for the future.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Feeney with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about seasonal execution specifically.
Because it seems to me that even last Halloween but certainly Easter candy as a whole and Hershey specifically has taken endcaps from other categories gotten great display activity and that's resulted in not only Hershey share gains but good holidays overall for the candy industry.
I wonder if -- can you comment on whether those trends are still intact if that's accelerating or it's the same? And where do we stand in terms of that promotional execution say versus this time last year? Jonathan it's interesting.
We have worked really really hard on what we call prescriptive selling around holidays and in our -- in basically our seasonal events.
And I think we're getting much much better at how we execute both in getting it up at the right time and then ensuring that it's selling through at the right time.
So when we look at these events we actually could probably sell more than we do in terms of the sell-in.
But as we work with our retailers one of the things they're learning too is is they need to get these seasonal events off the floor to get into the next one so that they can also be timely.
And so getting the sell-through to occur more at the planned rates is really important.
So we just feel good about the overall execution.
It leverages our sales organization which is in there.
It's our seasonal navigator tool which is proprietary that we help manage the category.
And so I think if you bundle all of those things together we're getting better.
We've talked about S'mores how it's almost become a season and then we've had a terrific event with TWIZZLERS this summer.
So the -- you're right on when you describe what you're seeing and it's very very much how we challenge our seasonal team to work with retailers to make these things as prescriptive as possible.
Research Division</strong> Great.
If I could just have one follow-up.
Can you -- where would you say -- could you characterize where you stand in terms of shipment into if any of seasonal activity at this point? Or where are you going to run in terms of that? Is that going to run heavier sooner or in line with last year or whatever? Well what I don't want to do is talk about what those volume targets are.
What I would tell you is is there's certainly no disappointment from our side or discussions with retailers that we're not collaborating on what we think the right volumes are.
And so read that as a positive not a negative.
I guess the overall comment I'd make if you look at our takeaway and our shipments where we feel really good about is is that we continue to see those running very very close which is always a positive sign for the overall supply chain and how products are moving through the total system and that usually is found money for everybody when you're efficient throughout the entire system.
So we feel really good about the planning of those events for the second half of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> And forgive me if I -- if this was asked.
I missed the first part of the Q&amp;A.
But there's been -- I guess as we've gone through earnings season at least on the -- from some of the beverage companies there's been a bit a controversy about whether or not there's been some slowing in the convenience channel particularly late I guess in the second quarter and/or maybe the beginning of the third quarter.
And so just your perspective on consumer behavior in that channel whether you've noticed any change at all in your categories or just in general just the consumer environment in that channel would be helpful.
Bryan first of all I'll make a general comment that I think that it can be dangerous -- and I can't speak to the beverage guys.
So I think it can be dangerous if we get too enamored by some of the short-term swings.
However in our business we continue to see really robust C-store business.
We continue to execute well.
We've got good programming.
So in the retailers that we talk to on our brands they're pretty positive frankly.
And so while there's a lot of events I think and a lot of moving parts today that maybe didn't happen across channels as much over the last several years for our brands our category we continue to see really good trends.
And we feel good about the planning that we have.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And if I could follow up.
Just now that we've-- we're closer to the end in terms of this last round of price increases how do you feel about the optics for consumers? Have they fully adjusted to the price points that they're seeing on the shelf now both in traditional food channels and also in C-stores? And how do you feel about there's -- given there's potential for volatility in input costs going forward how do you feel about the base you have now in terms of consumers' comfort level with the price points they're seeing and the ability to basically have that as a base to work with going forward I guess potentially at some point if raw material costs increase to raise prices off of this point? And also do you feel comfortable that you don't have to discount back a lot from where you are now? Yes Bryan I would say that given the price realization that we've seen in the first couple of quarters and by and large while we were a little bit off on our second quarter volume call it isn't anything that concerns us.
We see good continued trends for the back half of the year.
So I'd say that the consumer has adjusted reasonably well to the pricing.
If we look at how -- at Easter as an indicator of how consumers might be feeling around Halloween and holiday that's a good sign.
I won't comment on timing or anything other aspects of a price increase.
We did say in New York recently at our analyst -- on our analyst day that we felt that costs would actually be down year-on-year given trends in 2013.
Don't know what'll happen beyond that.
So from our perspective I -- we think innovation continues to be a driver and all of that comes out at the new price points obviously.
And so as long as there's news in the category and programming and those seasons which are traffic draws for the retailer we think that prices will continue to be well accepted by our consumers.
Your next question comes from the line of David Driscoll with Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to ask a little bit about the Reese's brand and J.P.
I'm sorry I might have missed it if you said it earlier but how did Reese's do overall? And then specifically can you pull that apart a little bit and talk about Reese's Minis? I'm interested to hear how it does in its second year of launch.
That was such a big product last year.
And want to know if we're seeing any tailing off in that particular brand at this point.
And then maybe if you could talk a little bit about how do you support a new product like that in its second year? So let me start with the last part.
If you think about how we're looking at innovation today really the most important thing is around innovation lifecycle versus just around what we knew at one point as a lot of limited editions and those have a tendency to run their course and get tired.
So we're very pleased with the innovation in total not just on Reese's but innovation in total that we have.
We continue to advertise into year 2 and we continue to go beyond that because we really think that if our innovation is additive to our core business over time that's obviously a good thing.
If you look at Reese's in total the Reese's core minus innovation because of the amount of merchandising that happened in the introductory period of the Reese's Minis you see the core merchandising was off a little bit in the quarter and that impacted the core business which was down a little bit more than the innovation was up.
So again the Reese's business we continue to feel really good about it.
Reese's continues to grow for us.
It's obviously a hugely important brand and we think Minis is going to be around for a long time.
And we hope that the whole hand-to-mouth occasion not only on Reese's but across more of our brands will continue to be a good growth builder for us.
Research Division</strong> And one follow-up.
J.P.
one of the things that I think really was so special about Hershey is that as the advertising spending increased in '08 '09 '10 '11 and now in '12 by such strong rates of increase we saw that year after year the places that you were putting the advertising on those increases on we saw very high rates of growth almost as if the brands had just not been activated in a long time and reminding the consumers was causing high single-digit growth in most cases for the brands that you were activating.
The question had been and continues to be do you still see the same kind of momentum from the advertising campaigns today as you did in year 1 and year 2 of the initial increase in the advertising budget? Hopefully that was reasonably clear.
Yes.
No I understand.
I think that when you think about initially activating a brand and certainly one that hasn't been nourished for a while you get very good response initially.
What's important in our overall plans is is that we've gotten brands that were undernourished to what I would call sustaining levels.
So you go through growth levels and you get to sustaining levels and at those sustaining levels the goal is for those brands to continue to grow which is what we're seeing.
And then as we activate really in 2 different segments we activate more broadly across our portfolio.
But as you think about some of those brands like PayDay and York et cetera we have those brands that we will rotate through.
So there's a segment of brands there that we believe we can do some rotation around.
It benefits the brand.
It keeps them current in front of the consumer.
And then the other segment I would talk about you're seeing as a part of the advertising is the investment in our international businesses in these core markets.
So we really -- with our spend today it's not just spending more on the same thing over and over again.
We've really been able to become more efficient in terms of the GRPs we get expand that across our portfolio and then further expand that across our geographies.
Research Division</strong> And J.P.
would you then say that this is the core of the thesis why you guys are continuing to be optimistic about not just 2012 but about 2013 and beyond that? Because it's not as if we're just going to reach a plateau and suddenly the benefits from the advertising stall out.
This is how it continues in the future years.
Is that more or less correct? I -- Yes I think that's right.
And the real magic in so much of our growth algorithm and in our strategies is that we have these wonderful markets where you have GDP growth the category is growing with GDP growth and we can participate in those markets as we talked back in New York that that's not just a high-cost battle for share.
That's really category growing.
All manufacturers are participating.
Consumers are entering [ph] the category.
So it's very very efficient to be able to grow that way and then we're very fortunate that we have a significant position in such a great market like North America.
So if I look at the coming 5-plus years and our current strategic plan I'm just really optimistic that we have a sound disciplined approach to continue to deliver solid business growth.
Your next question comes from the line of David Palmer with UBS.
Research Division</strong> It does looks like Hershey -- getting back to the innovation topic which we've hit on already it does looks like Hershey has rolled out fewer new products in terms of the number of new products than its competitors in this year and that's striking given the fact that the market share gains are there.
It seems like a year of pricing and reinvestment widening the hit on advertising across more brands and allowing this year to be maybe a digestion year from the platforms and supporting year of the platforms that you rolled out in the last couple years.
My question is are you thinking that 2013 might be a year where you're past the digestion phase and the reinforcement phase of those platforms and you can get a little bit more active on the new product news front maybe with a big platform or 2? Yes I think David it's -- so we believe innovation is important to the category.
There's no doubt about that.
At the same time when we're able to make the investments we want to make execute against the fundamentals and pace our innovation in a way that we're delivering against what we see is a sound growth algorithm that's what we're going to continue to do.
And so we feel good about our pipeline.
It's really about pacing.
We believe that the right level of innovation for the category -- and we're seeing more innovation I think this year than we have.
That's a good thing.
We want to participate in that.
But importantly we want to ensure that we have sustainable innovation.
And to the earlier question lifecycle of these is important so that we don't create so much churn in the category that really it's unprofitable for everybody.
Research Division</strong> And do you -- I mean do you feel at this point that your -- that we've had enough time lifecycle-wise as you're saying where you could see yourselves doing and your pipeline is offering you some highly incremental new news that it may be time? Yes I think as you -- I think as we look forward first of all we have initiatives out there.
We're emphasizing our sweets and refreshments category in a way we never have before and we feel as though that's rewarding as well.
Obviously chocolate is extremely important to us and we have things that we're doing there.
We're coming off of a couple of really big blockbusters with the Minis.
And as we look forward we expect to continue to introduce things at the right pace and hopefully that really resonates well with the consumers.
So I think the way you're thinking about it is not inconsistent with how we think about it.
But we probably have been far more disciplined in the way that we've done innovation than we have in the past.
Your next question comes from the line of Thilo Wrede with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just have a quick question on Simple Pleasures.
And I know it's early but what's your impression right now who the consumers for this product? And where would Simple Pleasures take its market share from? Well Simple Pleasures is an indulgent product.
It also has some benefit of lower fat content and there's this consumer we call -- let me think here for a second but it's more of a permissible indulgence.
Sorry I have to search my hard drive there in my mind.
But it's more of a permissible-indulgence type product and so we believe that there's some trade-up type customers if you think about those brands that it would source some of its volume from and it's a bit different than some of the other -- it has some nice differentiation from some of the other products in the category.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in the press release you talked about the CMG category outpacing -- continuing to outpace historic growth rates.
Do we have to adjust our kind of assumptions for what the category could grow at? Or in other words is this growth right now sustainable for the category? We feel as though the category growth has -- I used the word at one point in time I think earlier around the "new normal." But if you look at the 3% to 4% historical growth rate and where the category is growing today I think that the key difference that I see that makes me a believer in continued category growth at least in the North American mindset is the investment that continues to be made in the category in terms of advertising.
We've talked a lot this morning about innovation.
And then don't forget in a tough retail environment retailers are looking for categories that are good for them and our category is good for retailers.
So I think we'll continue to get our fair share as a category of overall merchandising in the store and that I think are all positive fundamentals to future growth.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zaslow with Bank of Montreal.
I just wanted to round out the conversation on the channel discussion.
I know you said something about C-stores and traditionals.
Can you talk about mass and where you think the other growth dollar stores drugs? Can you talk about the distribution of growth that you saw during the quarter just round it out? Well I think if I were to just put it in 2 sort of macro comments we saw FDMx had a bit of a grower -- a lower growth rate than the balance of some of the things you described.
If you think about Walmart Club Dollar those collection of the new part of the xAOC growth so you saw a little bit greater growth there than you did in the others.
We still saw pretty balanced growth across all of those customers for us in the category as well.
So there -- the consumer seems to be moving around a little bit.
But overall that's how we see our category responding right now.
And then of course we talked convenience earlier and convenience continues to do really well for us.
Are there any channels that you still feel like there is market -- relative market share gains that you can have in terms of penetration that you need to still allocate more resources towards? I think for us continuing to be dedicated to growth in our international businesses and the core markets that we talked about increasing our capabilities there so if you think about expanding our geographical footprint which is the second thing that we talked about in our strategy and then expanding our portfolio across those geographies that's going to keep us pretty busy and that's probably where you'll see us...
There's no channels -- there's no retail channels that you still feel like you're underrepresented relative to where you want to...
I think that we're learning a lot about the Dollar channel and we're trying to do better there.
We want to make sure we do it smart just -- versus just putting things out.
So that's an area.
But if you look at our brands and our coverage it's pretty ubiquitous.
And my last question is on the commodity outlook.
Obviously you sound like you're pretty well hedged through the year.
Is there any concerns at all into 2013 in commodity? It doesn't look like it for you guys but just in general if you could just talk about the general outlook for commodities for you guys because it seems like everything seems to be under control.
Milk's probably going up a little bit from here.
But can you just talk to it a little bit? Yes I mean we mentioned that we had good visibility to this year.
So clearly our inflation expectation hasn't changed.
We mentioned in New York that we felt that next year at least the trend feels favorable right now.
You're right to point out the area.
It's one that's not easily hedged and so we watch that closely as we do other commodities.
But I wouldn't say that there's anything right now that we're extremely concerned about.
Your next question comes from the line of Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I guess most of my questions have been answered.
But just thinking back to the investor day and your strategy over the next couple -- 2 or 3 years as maybe the economy starts to recover I remember a few years ago premium was a big growth theme in this category and I think you had a couple of false starts in that area.
As you start to think about the longer-term is that an area that you're going to be focused on? And how might you prepare for that coming back? Yes we talk about premium and if you look at the category today and these numbers are probably some that you're perfectly familiar with but I'll say them premium and trade-up represents about 12% of the total category today.
If you look at what's happened over the last several years premium had declined some and it's now recovering some.
Trade-up is declining some.
So that percentage of the business which has been relatively constant over time is one that we have not I would just say succeeded at.
Now we feel very good about the fact that we concentrate in where the bulk of the category is today.
We do well there.
But we talk about and have projects in place around how to think about premium.
We think there's potentially a couple of share points there in the total category that if we were to sort that out we could benefit from.
One of the issues for us is that we haven't convinced ourselves that we can do that more profitably than some of the other things that we're doing.
And so solving for it within that context because I don't want to chase share that could be less profitable for us than not.
But I recognize your question and it's one that we too think about.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A quick one.
On the strategic inventory purchase that you mentioned Bert is that the nonfat dry powdered milk? Because I think as Ken asked that has hurt you in the past and I understand that there's an excess supply of that at the moment.
Yes I really can't -- or won't comment on specifically what inventories we've made strategic purchases in.
You're right to point out that there is good supply of that in the marketplace but that's really all I'll say Eric.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe more importantly I got a little bit confused J.P.
with all of the numbers and acronyms and stuff around the market share.
But just let me try to frame it this way.
So in the first 3 months the market share was flat.
In the second 3 months -- the second quarter your market share was up.
So you obviously accelerated your share sequentially as the year has gone on.
But it sounds like most of that is coming in seasonal because every day your shipments are actually down a couple of cent [ph].
So I guess one is that accurate? And two what does that say about the everyday category? Is that -- did you gain share in everyday volume and therefore the category is even worse based on the elasticity? Well I think Eric what we may want to do to get into a lot of the detail is we can probably take some of that offline and Mark can help us go through each of those numbers.
What I would tell you is across each pieces of the business we continue to feel pretty good about the progress that we're making with the exception that we were disappointed just so we have a goal for ourselves to grow share across all of our businesses.
And so chocolate was off a little bit.
The everyday would have been impacted by the innovation that we were seeing.
But fundamentally I don't think that I would describe any of those events as causing us concern around what our overall plans are for the year.
So our seasonal performance has been good.
We did very good at Easter as we described earlier.
The instant consumable business is doing well.
The Minis continues to do very well.
Front-ends continued to do well.
And so I think if you describe it those are the places where it's a bit softer for us than maybe we would have liked.
But I think we understand what's happening in the category.
So it doesn't cause alarm bells.
We're still going through a period of time where we said volume would be back to 100% by the end of the year.
So as we look at that on a period-to-period basis we always see some fluctuation there.
So again I'm more than happy offline to get into some further detail to help you understand that.
Hey Eric it's Mark.
And it's not an apples-to-apples because I think the flat share you're referring to in the first quarter was FDMxC and now we're talking about the xAOC+C universe.
So -- and I think as you -- from our remarks I think...
Research Division</strong> Now I'm more confused.
Because I'm just worried -- obviously you guys are doing well in seasonal but I wonder about the category's health because to Chris Growe's question right your volume is down 3 in everyday.
That includes some benefit maybe not all that material but some benefit from international and so is the category's elasticity better than that worse? I'm just -- I'm not -- so we can go over it Mark a little later.
The only thing I would say is that the minus 3 doesn't include the international benefit.
We specifically spoke about U.S.
to just be more transparent.
Yes.
We look forward to talking to you Eric offline.
Your last question comes from the line of Rob Dickerson with Consumer Edge.
LLC</strong> So -- I guess again kind of a follow-up from Chris' question and Eric's question.
Can we just ask it and say if we look at the -- what we saw at the analyst day what we're seeing in our data is just there is obviously deceleration within the C-store channel at least as it pertains to confection.
I don't know if it's price driven.
You're seeing 3% down in core.
So is the next -- does this all relate then to why there is kind of the next stage of growth should be coming from international? I mean the core is obviously -- it's about -- I guess about 1/3 of your business it sounds like.
And if we see a deceleration continue as pricing is rolled off in C-stores we -- and then we also saw some volume share pickup from Mars in Q2 within C-stores.
And then as we think about '13 it would just seem as if there is a deceleration kind of in the core and then what we would expect to have happen is that advertising would be kind of going up even further and continued into '13 to really drive the international part.
Well first I would start by saying is I don't think we believe there is a broad deceleration in the C-store business.
And we continue to be -- as we've talked about how we're looking at the balance of the year we see sequential improvement in share specifically in chocolate.
And so -- again I would come back to what we have visibility to across the balance of the year.
We've had as a category very successful innovations in the first half and the things I would tell you that that innovation has been not from a single manufacturer but from multiple manufacturers.
That's good for the category.
And so I think the context is not as you may be describing it.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Perfect.
And then last question easy one.
The tax rate -- and I think in your prepared remarks you said that it was still 35%.
In the call you said it'd be slightly below.
For Q2 you said tax would be slightly below year-over-year.
It was over 400 basis points below.
So just to clarify should we be expecting a tax rate that's kind of 34% to 35% now for the full year? No I -- well no.
We already said the tax rate for the full year...
Yes closer to 35%...
Would be just a little below the 35% level and that's consistent with what we've said all year.
The only thing that occurred in the second quarter was that we closed a couple of tax audits which we had in the plan for the second year.
So it's really more timing during the year.
The tax rate is the same as what we anticipated early in the year.
Thank you very much for joining us for today's conference call.
Matt Miller and myself will be available to answer any follow-up questions that you may have.
Thank you and enjoy your day.
That does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Lisa and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Hershey Company Third Quarter 2012 Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Mark Pogharian.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Lisa.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to The Hershey Company Third Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
J.P.
Bilbrey President and CEO; Bert Alfonso Senior Vice President and CFO; and I will represent Hershey on this morning's call.
We also welcome those of you listening via the webcast.
Let me remind everyone listening that today's conference call may contain statements which are forward-looking.
These statements are based on current expectations which are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements because of factors such as those listed in this morning's press release and in our 10-K for 2011 filed with the SEC.
If you have not seen the press release a copy is posted on our corporate website in the Investor Relations section.
Included in the press release is a consolidated balance sheet and a summary of consolidated statements of income prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Within the Notes section of the press release we have provided adjusted pro forma reconciliations of select income statement line items quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.
As we've said within the Note the company uses these non-GAAP measures as key metrics for evaluating performance internally.
These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP.
Rather the company believes the presentation of earnings excluding certain items provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations.
We will discuss 2012 third quarter results excluding net pretax charges of $34.9 million or $0.10 per share diluted which are primarily related to the Project Next Century program.
Our discussion of any future projections will also exclude the impact of these net charges non-service-related pension expense and acquisition and integration costs related to the Brookside Foods.
With that out of the way let me turn the call over to J.P.
Bilbrey.
Thanks Mark.
I want to thank all of you on the phone and webcast for joining us today.
I'm pleased with Hershey's third quarter results.
As we anticipated Hershey's U.S.
marketplace performance accelerated in the third quarter.
Hershey chocolate non-chocolate mint and gum retail takeaway was up in the measured channel universe of xAOC+C-stores resulting in market share gains across all segments.
Retail and core brand net sales volume trends continued to sequentially improve.
This growth is driven by the faster growing channels like convenience and dollar which are pacing ahead of the more traditional classes of trade.
Before we get into the details I'd like to give you an update on a couple of announcements we've had since our last conference call.
On September 28 we acquired the remaining 49% stake in the Hershey Godrej joint venture.
We're very excited about the opportunities that exist in India.
The Mahalacto and Nutrine candy brands and the Jumpin juice and soy-based beverage brands are good businesses and in growing categories.
Similar to what we've done in other international markets we'll make disciplined brand building investments and improve upon selling capabilities and expand distribution.
We'll focus on expanding margins via aggressive cost control and margin enhancing innovation while also evaluating the global Hershey portfolio to determine the best products for the India consumer and marketplace.
We've learned a lot over the last 5 years and have gained valuable consumer insights that will serve us well.
We believe we have the right brands products and people to give us the ability to grow in the marketplace as we fully control our future.
Moving on to sustainable cocoa.
Earlier this year we announced that Hershey's Bliss chocolates will be Rainforest Alliance certified and available to consumers by year-end.
Bliss joined Hershey's  Dagoba organic chocolate which is already 100% Rainforest Alliance certified and Scharffen Berger which will source 100% certified cocoa by the end of 2013.
Currently certified cocoa accounts for less than 5% of the world's cocoa supply.
Earlier in the month we announced that we'll source 100% certified cocoa for our global chocolate product lines by 2020.
Hershey and its cocoa suppliers as well as African governments will work together to increase farmer knowledge improve incomes and help cocoa communities increase the volumes of certified cocoa.
No company or single organization can solve this complex and long-term issue.
That's why Hershey will continue to work effectively with numerous public and private partners on a precompetitive collaborative basis as we strive towards our 2020 goal.
Over time we expect this will help farmers and lead to a more efficient cocoa supply chain as greater certified cocoa becomes available.
The investments related to this commitment are included in the long-term targets that we discussed at our June investor update.
As it relates to the third quarter net sales growth of plus 7.5% was essentially in line with our expectations.
Net price realization was a 3.9 point benefit in volume; excluding the Brookside acquisition it was up 2.1 points.
The organic volume gain was primarily driven by new products.
Core volume trends improved sequentially and were up slightly this quarter.
From a profitability perspective earnings came in a bit better than our expectations due to the timing of SM&amp;A expenses.
In terms of Hershey's marketplace performance Hershey's CMG that's candy mint and gum retail takeaway for the 12 weeks ending October 6 2012 in channels that account for about 90% of our U.S.
retail business was up plus 5.9% resulting in a 1.1 market share gain.
Year-to-date Hershey U.S.
retail takeaway and market share is up 5.2% and 0.4 points respectively.
Year-to-date the CMG category in the xAOC+C-store channels is up 3.8%.
As we approach midyear the category began to lap the price increases instituted last year.
Additionally the Gum category continues to underperform.
Therefore CMG category growth for the 12 weeks ended October 6 2012 slowed and was up 2.2%.
Looking separately at chocolate non-chocolate and mint categories tells us a different story as each of these segments grew within or above the historical category growth rate of 3% to 4% in the third quarter.
Additionally the categories beginning to lap the innovation and limited edition introduced by major manufacturers over the last few years.
We've had a solid innovation pipeline that we estimate will be at least 1 point of our net sales algorithm on an annual basis.
Hershey Q3 FDMx CMG growth was plus 4.3% resulting in a market share gain of 1.3 points.
In Q3 the FDMx CMG category was flat.
While the broader food group debates what is happening to trips and basket size in some channels note that there's no evidence of retailers pulling back from the confectionery category in terms of aggregate levels of xAOC distribution points and programming.
Importantly the other measured channels such as convenience dollar stores and large mass customers are growing towards the high-end of the historical category growth rate and represent about 55% of our U.S.
sales.
As it relates to Halloween orders shipments and sell-through is on track.
We believe we have the right mix of seasonal specific advertising coupons and programming support that sets the stage for another winning season.
We will not have a complete read on sell-through for another couple of weeks but our preliminary analysis indicates that our Halloween market share and xAOC is projected to increase for the fifth consecutive year and it will build on our 37% plus share of this important season.
For the 12 weeks ended October 6 2012 xAOC+C-store chocolate category growth was up plus 3.6%.
xAOC+C-store chocolate retail takeaway for Hershey improved sequentially as expected and was up plus 4.5% resulting in a gain of chocolate market share of 0.4 points driven by core brands in our Rolo Minis and Hershey's Simple Pleasures new product launches.
For the 12 weeks ended October 6 2012 xAOC+C-store non-chocolate category growth was up about 3.5%.
Hershey's non-chocolate xAOC+C-store retail takeaway was up 9.2% resulting in a market share gain of 0.9 points.
The solid performance was driven by continued Twizzlers momentum as well as the new Jolly Rancher Crunch 'N Chew product which is getting good trial and more importantly repeat purchases.
In the C-store class of trade CMG third quarter category growth was up plus 4.3%.
Total Hershey's C-store performance was particularly strong with takeaway of plus 8.9% resulting in a share gain of 1.3 points.
Hershey's C-store performance was balanced with retail takeaway up 8.7% 6.4% and 24.6% in chocolate non-chocolate and mints.
These gains were driven by new products core brand advertising and merchandising and programming including a Reese's and Coca-Cola promotion on a summer program to win free -- in a summer program to win free gasoline.
As it relates to breath refreshment within convenience stores we've gained mint market share for 56 consecutive quad weeks or about 4.3 years and now have about a 42-share of category in this channel.
As it relates to our 2012 innovation recall it's balanced between chocolate and sweets and refreshment.
The launch and rollout of new items such as Jolly Rancher Crunch 'N Chew and Ice Breakers Duo occurred earlier in the year.
We've reached ACV distribution targets on these products with trial and repeat on track versus our plans.
Rolo Minis and Hershey's Simple Pleasures were launched around midyear.
Rolo Minis achieved fast distribution and is tracking ahead of expectations.
Repeat is about 25% above our target and remains above that of similar hand-to-mouth products during the comparable time period.
ROLO brand advertising started in mid-July for the first time in 25 years resulting in sharp increases in dollar velocity for the ROLO base business and Mini pack type.
Simple Pleasures a late Q2 launch is in line with our assumptions.
Initial ACV distribution targets were reached in August and we ran a high-value FSI that generated solid results.
Marketing plans are in place for the fourth quarter.
And as we exit the year we'll have a perspective on repeat purchases.
As we close the year we'll be active in all classes of trade with solid brand building initiatives including core brand merchandising programming and consumer promotions around Hershey's S'mores tailgating holiday and baking season and a Reese's NCAA Football and EA Sports promotion.
Additionally full year advertising expense will increase and is now expected to be up 13% to 15% in 2012.
This investment will benefit our business in the near-term and into next year.
Outside of the U.S.
our International business on a local currency basis is on track.
Year-to-date the key markets of Mexico China and Brazil are all above planned and up double-digits on a percentage basis versus last year.
We're growing faster than the category in these markets and feel confident that the disciplined investments and go-to-market capabilities will benefit the company in both the near and long-term.
However as I stated last quarter given the strength of the U.S.
dollar in 2012 foreign currency exchange rates or FX is a headwind.
Therefore we would expect full year 2012 international sales growth including the impacts of FX to be just below the 15% to 20% growth we've realized in the last few years.
Now to wrap up.
I'm pleased with our performance given the macroeconomic challenges that consumers and retailers are facing.
Our advertising consumer promotion selling capabilities and merchandising have combined to help drive customer and consumer conversion which has resulted in sequential volume improvement throughout the year.
We'll continue to make appropriate investments to ensure a healthy category while driving our everyday and seasonal business over the remainder of 2012 and into 2013.
Organic volume trends continued to sequentially improve.
Additionally the Brookside acquisition will be about a 1.75 to 2-point benefit in 2012.
Therefore we've narrowed our full year net sales growth outlook and now expect it to increase 8% to 9% including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates.
Now Bert will provide further details but given our gross margin gains and SM&amp;A profile over the remainder of the year we have increased our full year adjusted earnings per share diluted outlook and expect it to increase 14% to 15% versus 2011 and be in the $3.22 to $3.25 range.
As we look to 2013 we'll continue to focus on core brands and innovation in both the U.S.
and key international markets.
In January we'll launch Brookside branded products in the broader U.S.
food drug and mass channels.
Therefore we expect 2013 net sales growth to be within our 5% to 7% long-term target including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates.
As we stated earlier this year we remain focused on gross margin.
We have solid productivity and cost savings initiatives in place.
And while early in the planning cycle we don't expect input cost inflation next year.
Therefore we expect to achieve gross margin expansion in 2013 and growth in adjusted earnings per share diluted in the 8% to 10% range consistent with our long-term target.
I'll now turn it over to Bert who will provide some additional details on our financial results.
Thanks J.P.
and good morning everyone.
Hershey posted another quarter of quality results with consolidated net sales of $1.75 billion up 7.5% versus the prior year generating adjusted earnings per share diluted of $0.87.
The 7.5% net sales gain was driven primarily by the continued growth of our core brands and new products.
Net price realization primarily in the U.S.
was a 3.9-point benefit in line with our estimates.
And volume excluding a 2.3-point benefit from Brookside was up 2.1 points.
The organic volume gain was driven by new products.
Core brand volume trends have improved sequentially throughout the year and were slightly up in the third quarter.
In addition foreign currency exchange rates were a 0.8-point headwind.
Adjusted gross margin in Q3 increased 70 basis points.
Net price realization supply chain efficiencies and productivity improvements were partially offset by increased commodity costs.
Versus last year input costs were about $30 million higher in the quarter and relatively in line with our expectations.
We have good visibility for our cost structure for the remainder of the year and we continue to expect higher input costs in Q4 versus last year.
However our current inflation outlook for the full year is slightly better than our previous forecast.
Combined with our cost savings and productivity programs as well as year-to-date price realization we now expect adjusted gross margin to increase 120  to 140 basis points for the full year versus our previous estimate of 100 to 120 basis points.
In the third quarter adjusted earnings before interest and taxes or adjusted EBIT increased about 6%.
This resulted in an adjusted EBIT margin of 19.3% a 30 basis point decline versus last year due to planned investments in brand building and go-to-market capabilities.
Specifically advertising expense increased about 12% versus the year ago period.
We are now planning a slightly higher investment in advertising in the fourth quarter and expect full year 2012 advertising expense to increase 13% to 15% versus 2011.
This is greater than our previous estimate of a low double-digit percentage increase.
Adjusted SM&amp;A excluding advertising also increased about 12% versus last year although less than our previous estimate of a 15% to 20% increase for Q3.
We will continue to invest in non-advertising brand building and go-to-market capabilities in both the U.S.
and international markets.
In the fourth quarter we would expect another meaningful increase in adjusted SM&amp;A resulting in low double-digit percentage increase for the full year.
Now let me provide an update on our International businesses.
On a local currency basis net sales increased meaningfully in China and Brazil.
In addition local currency of sales increased in Mexico although at a more moderate rate.
The investments we've made in these key markets are enabling our brands to gain momentum in the marketplace.
We will continue to make disciplined investments in these markets in Q4 and 2013 to further drive distribution brand awareness and trial.
Given the strong U.S.
dollar in 2012 net sales in our businesses outside of the U.S.
and Canada including the impact of foreign exchange are expected to increase 10% to 15% although still on pace to reach $1 billion by 2015 as previously communicated.
On September 28 we completed the acquisition of the 49% stake in The Hershey Godrej joint venture that we did not own.
We are very excited about the opportunities that exist in India.
In the coming weeks we plan to pay off the existing local debt which will essentially offset the additional losses we'll incur from owning 100% of the business.
And as J.P.
stated we will now concentrate our efforts on building capabilities and portfolio development for Hershey India.
Moving down to P&amp;L.
Q3 interest expense was $24.5 million up 6.5% versus the prior period.
For the full year 2012 we expect interest expense to be approximately $95 million to $100 million.
The adjusted tax rate for the third quarter was 36.1% or 190 basis points higher than the prior year.
Recall that in the previous quarter we discussed the timing of certain tax items that adversely impacted the third quarter year-over-year.
We continue to expect the full year tax rate to be about 35%.
In the third quarter of 2012 weighted average shares outstanding on a diluted basis were $228.6 million versus $229.8 million in 2011 leading to adjusted earnings per share diluted of $0.87 up 3.6% versus year ago.
Now let me provide a quick recap of our year-to-date results.
Net sales increased 8.4% adjusted gross margin was 44% year-to-date versus 42.6% last year.
Net price realization of productivity gains were partially offset by higher commodity costs.
Advertising increased approximately 12% on a year-to-date basis.
Adjusted EBIT increased 14.4% resulting in an adjusted EBIT margin gain of 110 basis points from 18.4% to 19.5%.
And adjusted earnings per share diluted for the 9-month period increased 17.4% to $2.50 per share.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow.
At the end of the third quarter net trading capital increased versus last year's third quarter by $96 million.
Accounts receivable was up $29 million primarily due to higher September sales.
Our accounts receivable aging remains extremely current.
Inventory increased by $72 million year-over-year primarily due to the timing of strategic purchases of key ingredients that we discussed in the second quarter.
We will continue to work through these inventories in the fourth quarter and expect that year-end 2012 inventory will be at or below the 2011 ending levels.
Finally accounts payable increased $5 million.
We expect net trading capital to improve in the fourth quarter as we cycle through the peak seasonal period of our business.
In terms of other specific cash flow items capital additions including software were $66 million in the third quarter and $214 million year-to-date.
The Q3 amounts included $9 million of Project Next Century capital expenditures.
For 2012 we are targeting total capital additions to be in the $280 million to $300 million.
This range includes base ongoing CapEx of $215 million to $230 million plus Project Next Century CapEx of approximately $65 million to $70 million.
Depreciation and amortization was $53 million in the third quarter.
This includes accelerated depreciation related to Project Next Century of about $3 million and adjusted operating depreciation and amortization of $50 million in the quarter.
In 2012 we are forecasting total operating depreciation and amortization of about $220 million including accelerated depreciation and amortization related to Project Next Century of about $20 million.
Dividends paid during the quarter were $83 million.
Also during the quarter we repurchased approximately $279 million worth of common shares to replace shares issued in connection with stock option exercises.
We did not acquire any shares in the third quarter related to the $250 million outstanding repurchase program.
Cash on hand at the end of the quarter was $466 million.
The company continues to generate substantial free cash flow and has a strong balance sheet.
Therefore as mentioned in this morning's press release we have increased our quarterly dividend by 10.5%.
This action reflects our confidence in the long-term growth of our business.
Let me now provide an update on Project Next Century.
I am pleased to announce that construction and line installation is complete and the plant is operational and our current focus is on line performance optimization.
The forecast for pretax GAAP charges and nonrecurrent project implementation costs related to the program has been increased from a range of $160 million to $180 million to $190 million to $200 million primarily due to a non-cash pension settlement charge during the third quarter.
As required by U.S.
GAAP the settlement charge occurred because employee withdrawals from pension plans exceeded certain accounting threshold levels.
During the third quarter we recorded Project Next Century charges of $26 million pretax of which $13 million was related to non-cash pension settlement charges.
As previously communicated by 2014 we continue to expect ongoing annual savings to be approximately $65 million to $80 million.
Now to summarize.
We are pleased with our third quarter and year-to-date results.
Over the remainder of the year we plan to make incremental investments in our brands and business capabilities.
As stated earlier full year 2012 adjusted SM&amp;A expenses excluding advertising are expected to increase low double-digits versus the prior year in line with previous estimates.
Full year advertising expected to increase 13% to 15% versus the prior year.
Halloween has gotten off to a good start and the Brookside acquisition expected to contribute 1.75- to 2-point net sales benefit in 2012 as our initial supply chain performance has enabled us to optimize product sales mix.
Therefore we've narrowed our full year net sales growth outlook and now expect net sales to increase 8% to 9% including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates.
As previously communicated while input costs will be higher in 2012 we have good visibility into our fourth quarter input costs.
As a result price realization improving volumes and strong productivity will result in full year adjusted gross margin expansion of 120 to 140 basis points.
Additionally we expect Brookside acquisition to be slightly accretive for the full year.
Therefore we now expect 200 -- 2012 earnings per share diluted growth of 14% to 15% or $3.22 to $3.25 per share.
As we look to 2013 we assume that the economic environment for retailers and consumers will continue to be challenging.
However we will continue to focus on our core brands and leverage Hershey's scale at retail in the U.S as well as continued growth in key focus markets.
The Brookside integration and capacity expansion is on track and ready for broader launch early next year.
Overall we believe that the investments we're making will enable us to deliver predictable and consistent top line and earnings growth.
Therefore our current expectation for 2013 is for net sales growth to be within our 5% to 7% long-term target including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates.
We have solid productivity and cost-saving initiatives in place.
And while early in the planning cycle we do not expect input cost inflation in 2013.
Therefore we expect to achieve gross margin expansion in 2013 and growth and adjusted earnings per share diluted in the 8% to 10% range consistent with our long-term target.
We will now open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jonathan Feeney with Janney Capital Market.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to dig in a little bit on the thought about 2013 your long term guidance.
Because when I look at -- and I'm kind of a broken record on this but when I look at the trajectory of what costs have done and how strong the pricing has been and now with volume working a little bit better and obviously raising for Q4.
Can you tell me are there any explicit factors I'm missing as to why you wouldn't see more gross margin expansion in 2013? Because when you do the arithmetic you get to a little bit more aggressive gross profit growth trajectory.
Yes Jonathan this is Bert.
I -- we haven't really given a range on gross margin expansion and we typically wouldn't this time of year.
We are signaling that we certainly expect gross margin expansion.
And frankly we think it'll be at a pretty good level.
But I think we're going to maintain what we typically do is to give a lot more color around that and provide a range in January.
But right now I think what we're trying to provide in terms of some information or some color is the fact that it's not an inflationary year which the last 2 years have been and that we still have strong productivity coming through.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And if I could just ask 1 follow-up.
A competitive landscape gaining some significant share here does that maybe give you caution going into 2013? I mean picking up 1.1 points a share this quarter is excellent.
I mean are you going to be able to sustain that? And how are you feeling in the marketplace in Halloween competitively? Well first of all we feel good about Halloween.
The programming that we would've expected to be out is all materialized.
The early sell-through while it's not the whole season we certainly are seeing sell-through.
And as I said in my comments we expect to grow share in Halloween once again.
So from a Halloween standpoint we feel as if we're very much on track.
We've also had good results from our innovation that we've had.
Most of ours has been in the second half of the year.
You know that from a competitive standpoint there was a lot of innovation early in the first quarter.
And then we get off to the start of the year with good innovation as well.
So we'll have Brookside which we'll be expanding in the U.S.
and we're very excited about that.
As you know we've had the manufacturing expansion project that doubles our capacity on Brookside as we go into 2013.
And then we feel good about our overall new product pipeline.
So it's always our goal to grow share and we also feel -- the one thing I would just end on is we also feel good about the progress we're making in our conversion.
As we said we hope to be back to about 100% on volume growth somewhere around the first of the year and all indications with sequential improvement each quarter would suggest that's going to happen.
Your next question comes from the line of Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> As I look out to 2013 you mentioned the last couple of years were inflationary years and we've seen the price increase go through in 2011 and 2012.
For next year I'm assuming the algorithm will change with less price growth and more volume growth.
Could you maybe just talk about of the 5% to 7% top line growth roughly how much do you expect to mean maybe price and mix effects by trading consumers up to higher price products versus volume? Well I don't think we'll comment on exactly what we think the split will be.
But we would hope that as we get into 2013 volume growth of course will be an important piece of the overall growth.
And we continue to be on track for that to happen.
We -- as Bert mentioned as you think about gross margin and we're not giving specific guidance that we do believe if you look at the overall commodity complex with the exception of dairy which there is no futures market on we have good visibility and we would expect while there will be volatility it will move more in a more modest range and probably more sideways than it has for a while.
But we continue to believe that we're still in a longer-term bull market but you might see a bit of moderation here for a while.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And then just a quick follow-up.
On the commodity cost outlook for 2013 how locked in are you for next year at this point? Obviously I think you have longer-term forward looks on cocoa but the dairy market is pretty volatile here.
Can you just give us a sense for how confident you are that the other numbers will be pretty flat to down? Yes.
Alexia we don't provide specific hedging figures for competitive reasons and obviously many of our competitors don't provide any information whatsoever.
What I would say is our K says we're normally in that 3- to 24-month range.
The fact that we're already signaling that we're fairly confident around gross margin expansion is that we have reasonable coverage within the amount of information that we're able to provide.
And you've seen that the commodities have seemed to level out a little bit.
Cocoa is a little higher than it was recently [indiscernible] sugar spot prices.
And the spot price is obviously not indicative of how you might project this.
But peanuts are a little better sugar is a little better dairy is the one that's going the other way based on higher corn.
But overall I would say even energy the basket itself is a bit more stable to down.
And we hope to -- we're expecting to benefit from that.
Your next question comes from the line of David Palmer with UBS.
Research Division</strong> All right.
A couple of questions.
In the measure channel data it looks like extensions Rolo Minis; Simple Pleasures of which is not an extension but a brand; and then Jolly Ranchers varieties those are doing great something like a few points of growth in total from those.
Air Delights doesn't seem to be lapping as well which surprised me.
Could you comment on the sources of innovation lift? Obviously you can see more of your business than we can.
Well I think your comments are correct in that we feel really good about the -- those most recent innovations.
I think with regard to Air Delight we're still trying to work through our communication messages.
We think the product's a terrific product.
It's a form that does well in a number of different countries around the world.
We do well with it in Brazil.
And so we're really working through what we think the messaging is.
So I wouldn't say that it's something that we're not committed to because we're very committed to getting it figured out but I think it's also different enough and new enough that it's going to continue to take some work for us.
And -- so that would be my comment there.
We feel really good about the emphasis we put on the breath freshener and non-chocolate business we have this year.
As you mentioned in non-chocolate we're up about 9.2% versus a category up 3.5% in the most recent 12 weeks.
And in breath fresher about 20% with the category up about 13% across xAOC.
So those have worked really hard for us.
And then we're very excited about what we have coming in 2013.
So again we've talked about our philosophy on innovation and we want to make sure that we stick with these things that we advertise in the second year and really look at them as long-term as possible.
Churn is not really good for the category.
And if we can have a stickier innovation it's really better for everybody.
And we feel good about the things that we've been doing over the last several years and certainly this most recent freshman class of innovation.
Research Division</strong> And a second question on Brookside in particular.
It looks like ACV is 37% in measure channels and it was representing about 70 basis points of your sales in the last 12 weeks.
I'm trying to think about how you are thinking about the potential lift of this product.
It seems that it would be able to be doubled at least in distribution.
And then maybe an advertising push or marketing push might get you even more.
So 1 to 2 points of lift from that product.
I mean how are you thinking about what that can do for you in '13? Well I really like the way you're thinking about it.
And just to give you a sense of our own confidence competence as I said in my earlier comment we have doubled our manufacturing capacity for the brand.
We've -- it's been exceeding our expectations so far.
And so we have outside of Costco really the U.S.
expansion coming in 2013.
And then we're hopeful that this brand can play even broader than that although we're taking it one step at a time but we're very positive about the contribution Brookside will make.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Goldman with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit more detail about how you performed in C-stores in some states like California where retail gasoline costs were higher? I'm just curious to what degree you were hurt by that? Or maybe you even picked up some velocity by consumers filling up more often? Just curious how that went.
Well I'm not sure that I can add a lot of value on California specific.
If you look at total CMG the category in the 12 weeks was up about 4.3%.
Hershey was up about 8.9%.
We gained 1.3 share points in that time frame.
And so we continue to hear very positive things from the C-store channel as we talk to operators.
And so I would just say Ken that these guys are positive.
I would anticipate that if gasoline -- we have pretty consistently said that we don't believe gasoline prices in our category have really negatively impacted how we've been doing.
Now as we see that gas -- the price of oil is moderating and gasoline may come down a quarter or more.
If we've been wrong about that all along then I guess we should get a nice tailwind from that.
But -- so those would be my only real comments.
But I feel good about the way we continue to perform.
And more importantly that channel feels good about the way they are performing.
Yes Ken this is Mark.
The only other thing I would add J.P.
mentioned that C-store CMG takeaway was up 4.3% and that's with gum being a mid-single digit tailwind for the category.
So that means chocolate non-chocolate and mints in C-stores grew greater than the historical growth rate of 3% to 4%.
Research Division</strong> And then one follow-up regarding gum there Mark.
Are you guys seeing anything -- there's been some innovation in the category there's been some more focus from the branded leaders on value items.
I realize gum isn't a huge deal for you obviously you'd rather it do better than worse.
But are you seeing any signs of life in the category? Anything from the leaders that is giving you some hope there? Or is it just too early to tell? Yes Ken.
I don't think that we see anything different than the comments that probably all of us have batted around.
It's a category that innovation is important.
When there's innovation there tends to be advertising.
And those are the basic drivers within the category.
And so if we begin to see something different there then the expectation may be different.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Granger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions on Asia.
First just wanted to get your latest thoughts on capacity utilization levels in the region and in China specifically and how you might choose to address your capacity needs whether you think that something you anticipate reaching a decision on during the next few quarters.
And just to revisit the JV in India and your decision to buy out your partner's interest there.
In the past you talked about having some concerns about the quality of the brands and the pricing power that they had in the market.
And I guess just in the context of those prior comments I just wanted to get your thoughts again on the benefits of bringing those brands into your overall portfolio.
Well let me address Asia first.
So we've made a long-term commitment to our Asia business more importantly China.
The joint venture project that we have with Lotte and our factory outside of Shanghai is essentially fully utilized.
And we continue to look at our Asia footprint for manufacturing.
We were at a point where we need greater capacity to meet the needs of our domestic business.
So where that plant has supplied product to some of the other Asian markets in addition to China we'll probably think of that more as a China domestic plant and then look at how we expand manufacturing under some combination of a new footprint.
And there's several options that we're looking at there that could include additional manufacturing in China for China or in Southeast Asia.
And as those things become clear to us certainly we'll communicate what that is.
In our India business first of all we simply feel good about being in control of our own destiny there.
And we've commented on the background of that some.
We have a portfolio there that doesn't really have any of the Hershey brands with the exception of Hershey's Syrup which does very very well in the Indian market.
And so we're in a couple of states in the south.
We have a very basic sugar confectionery portfolio with the exception of a couple of very interesting beverage brands which we're optimistic about growing.
And so what we're really focused on is building out our sales capability to broaden our footprint bring what we feel are stronger brands -- Mahalacto is a good brand.
And we believe that we can communicate some brand benefits behind that.
And so really distribution penetration in a broader geography increasing our sales capability and then communicating with consumers around those brands which we feel bring benefits and then expanding the Hershey portfolio as appropriate in those markets is really what our plan is.
I think India is a country for us where it's more of a journey than an event.
And so that's really how we think about it.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel Nicolas.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is Dan in for Chris.
This is actually Dan for Chris.
We were curious do you expect heavy SG&amp;A spending again next year? I mean should we think about it at a rate much faster than sales growth? Yes.
I think when we were last talking about that from a future perspective was back in June.
And given our plans particularly outside of the U.S.
although to some degree in the U.S.
as well we think of SG&amp;A as an investment area over the next couple of years which would be a bit higher than what we're projecting for sales growth in that 5 to 7 range.
The reason for that really are more in terms of sales capability and sales force expansion in markets such as China continuing to do our market research and putting infrastructure on the ground as we expand the 5 global brands into more of the countries where we operate.
So could be somewhat comparable to what we're seeing this year in terms of an annual rate.
So I would say yes slightly above what we think of as sales growth.
Let's say in the next year or 2 -- when you look at the back half I guess of the 5-year plan that we talked about in June we would expect about that point to be getting leverage out of SG&amp;A.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up is there anything unique in the phasing of the SG&amp;A investment? I mean is it going to support -- is it going to be lumpy at all? Or is it going to relatively even through the year? This year it was a bit lumpy I would say in terms of year-on-year growth right? We started in the first quarter it was single-digit and then I think we were at about 10% to 12% for the last couple of quarters.
And we expect it to be somewhere in that range in the fourth quarter.
So I think you're going to see it be mostly even but there is some lumpiness and you saw that this year in the first quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Moskow with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to know a little more specifics on India and China.
Can you tell me specifically what you're investing in for 2013 for China? And what kind of a step up could that deliver in terms of sales? Or do we really have to wait until '14 before the platform gets significantly bigger? And then secondly as you talk to your U.S.
retailers about global brands and your commitment behind these global brands has that helped you gain distribution for hard candy items that may not have been emphasized as big as before? Well let me talk about China first and then we'll talk a bit about the global brands and how that's worked for us.
We're still very much in an invest mode in China on several fronts.
So you may recall in June we talked about expanding our 5 global brands.
Certainly in China the expansion of our portfolio is very important.
KISSES is a primary footprint -- or really a primary portfolio brand for us today and so we'll be expanding that portfolio beginning in 2013.
We're also increasing our sales capability and coverage as we put more feed on the street and we're increasing our advertising across more cities than we've had before.
So those are 3 pretty big fundamental investments that we'll continue to make in China.
And then I think if you come back to one of Bert's comments earlier we will -- if you look at our current 5-year plan and you start to look at the real leverage on these investments it's really going to be more in the second half of that 5-year plan although we expect strong net sales performance out of that kind of portfolio expansion.
So while I don't want to project a specific number of category growth obviously across those key markets placed into that but this is a market we want to win in and really grow our business and so we're very dedicated to that.
In terms of global brands the one example that I would give you is Walmart has a program in some of their different markets where they put in an American type portfolio in the stores.
So brands like Reese's in Japan have benefited from that part of our portfolio has benefited from that in Europe.
And you see other retailers which have similar types of programs where they have U.S.
sections and U.S.
brands.
Costco is certainly another brand that does that in some of their Asian markets as well.
So where we have customers that -- retailers that we work well with here and they have some of those specific kinds of programs our brands tend to benefit from that.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask really quickly on advertising.
You're on track this year to have grown advertising investment at nearly a 30% CAGR since 2006.
This comes at a time when many staples companies are talking about opportunities to find efficiency savings to this line.
So first can you talk about the returns you're getting out of this investment? And second do you believe you're close to a point where we could start to get some margin leverage on advertising spend going forward? Well first of all let me just talk about that decision philosophically is we believe that it's been very good for the category and certainly a key driver of why our category has maybe performed differently than some other areas in the store because it's supported [indiscernible] with strong in-store merchandising it brings people into the stores.
So we feel good about the philosophy that we've had about being a brand building company and being able to invest in those brands.
And I also remember in that number we're expanding advertising across a broader part of our portfolio and in markets that we've never made advertising investments before.
So there's a lot of different parts to that.
The other comment I would make is we are very rigorous about measuring the ROI of our advertising.
We have sophisticated models that help us understand lift and certainly isolate that.
We wouldn't continue to be advertising the way we are if we didn't think we were getting a good return on investment.
And then because of the level of investment we're making in the category we're actually getting a higher GRP delivery versus the actual dollars that we're investing.
So there's also efficiencies beyond the dollars that you see.
Our actual GR delivery rates are higher actually even than the spend so that's another way to think about the leverage that we're getting off of that advertising.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate the philosophy.
I appreciate it quite a bit.
It's a healthy sort of investment.
But it must come with some degree of diminishing returns as you continue to ramp it.
Is there a point where you say "Enough is enough.
We've kind of reached a steady-state." And are you close to that point? Well on some brands -- so think of it as an S-curve and there's a point in that S-curve by which you move from growth levels to maintenance levels and then a point where the variable spend wouldn't be very efficient.
So we're just continuously reviewing what is the right point along that curve.
And then also remember that we've introduced innovation around our core brand -- innovation a lot of that has been around core brand.
So you also get a halo effect you get a benefficient -- an efficient use of being able to move that advertising from purely core into some of the innovation and also try to tweak the investment that way.
There's a point by which the advertising doesn't have an effective return.
We certainly don't feel as though that we've reached that point.
And I'll reassure you that we're quite rigorous in making sure that we don't waste a single dollar.
Our next question comes from the line of Ken Zaslow with Bank of Montral.
I may have missed it but can you just talk about why your SMA was actually lower than your expectations? Was it -- did it have to do with any investments internationally? And have you -- you have your international investments in lower or higher than your initial expectations? Just if you could just address those 2 issues.
Yes.
Ken I think overall it was a bit of timing between the quarters and so we're focused on completing some of that work in the fourth quarter.
And it's a mix of U.S.
and international.
So it's not really more pronounced in one or the other.
There continues to be sales force expansion and that is primarily an international focus.
But market research around product launches and some of the work that we're doing around advertising new brands those are the primary areas.
And so while we thought we'd be a bit higher in the third quarter we think some of that sort of levels off in the fourth.
So it's not really to be honest focused in 1 market versus another other than again with that caveat of sales force expansions primarily outside of the U.S.
So just to be clear your rate of investment internationally has not changed in any way? And there's nothing that gives you any evidence that you should be slowing or increasing or -- your commitment to international has not waned at all.
No I would say that -- I actually said that while the rate itself of investments are higher just given the different base outside of the U.S.
the planned investments and how we're thinking about it in terms of completing this year and working on the things that will help us to grow next year aren't really different.
Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I know that M&amp;A particularly on the international side is a high priority for use of cash.
It has been for a while.
And I know your midterm international goals in terms of the sales that you're looking for would certainly require some activity in that level or in the M&amp;A side over the next couple of years.
So I'm just curious any change there that you're seeing in either the pipeline that's out there? Or availability of potential assets? Or changes in multiples that change of thinking there? Really just trying to get a sense if anything's changed there since we haven't talked much about that today.
Yes.
Andrew I don't know that there's been a significant change.
We continue to have discussions around M&amp;A opportunities in the areas that we've discussed in the past local brand good sales force capability and distribution and those types of things.
I would say that the multiples are not that different.
They continue to be higher in Asia than you would find in other markets for the obvious reasons expectations around higher growth rates.
We're -- continue to focus on the use of cash in the M&amp;A space.
We don't include it in the model.
And then we've kind of -- I guess given some feel for the size of it in the -- on our aspiration of a $10 billion number that we put out there.
But I would say it's steady as she goes.
We're hopeful that we can make M&amp;A part of our value creating formula and that's the way we think about it.
Research Division</strong> And then just a quick follow-up.
Just maybe sort of an update on just how the sort of the joint venture if you will that you've got with Ferrero around some of the distribution and warehousing and things.
And just how has that played out? Has it delivered on kind of what your sort of hopes had been? And to the extent that there's some other opportunity along those lines would this I guess experience suggest that there's more that can be done whether with that player or other ones down the line? Yes I would say that it's progressing well.
We talked about the development of a distribution center in Canada.
We're executing against -- both parties are pleased with the progress we've made in terms of carrying the product together and we're realizing the savings that we thought we would.
It's logistics-based.
I agree with you that those are the types of opportunities that we think are available to us in other markets.
As you said whether it's with Ferrero or someone else these sort of pre-competitive collaborative arrangements that save money for both parties I think we'll -- you'll see more of that in the future.
Your next question comes from the line of David Driscoll with Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to start off with the -- going back to Brookside a little bit.
Can you -- and I think you mentioned this earlier but I missed it the timing of the new lines that you're adding when do they come on stream? Well Dave we're building inventories now in anticipation of our launch in the U.S.
That's still enabling us to meet what is a growing existing business.
And in early Q1 is when that will really be up and running at capacity.
So that's why we have the U.S.
launch happening in the first quarter because we will have the ability then to feed demand behind that expansion and distribution build.
Research Division</strong> Will you have the full slate of the Brookside product lineup included in the "first quarter launch?" Yes the line as it exists today will certainly be fully available.
And we're always looking at what the total portfolio for Brookside could be.
Research Division</strong> And then just continuing on this.
The current Brookside in the United States is mostly in Costco and so the incremental focus would be getting all the other food classes of trade -- I think that's the primary focus of it.
How does C-store and other classes of trade fit in with Brookside? Well the initial launch would be focused on the channels that you described but we believe Brookside especially because of its hand-to-mouth usage has a place in C-store.
And we're evaluating what those packages ought to look like.
Research Division</strong> And final question is this a mix positive product for the portfolio? Yes Brookside is a very attractive product for us from a gross margin standpoint.
Your final question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the volume trends or the volume trajectory for your base business.
So if you look at volume growth in excluding new products in excluding acquisitions in the U.S.
it looks like it's improved a bit sequentially.
If you could just give us a little bit of color in terms of where it stands now relative to kind of where your expectations were related to just elasticity taking a lot of pricing in the last 1.5 years? And how do you feel about the volume -- kind of where volumes have recovered relative to the pricing you've taken? And  then if you look into I guess 2013 part of the model is going to depend upon that volume improving just what gives you the confidence that that occurs in '13? Yes I would tell you that we're about where we thought we would be.
And I use the word about this is not a perfect science.
So as we would look over this whole timeframe since we took the pricing I really emphasize what we've said all along that we think by the end of 2012 we'll have achieved conversion to volume.
And so we've seen some quarters where versus the model that might be up or down slightly.
But actually we feel pretty good about where it's at.
It was up in this most recent quarter so we feel good about that.
And we think it will continue in 4Q to where ultimately we're predicting it to be.
You saw that in the mix numbers across the total business.
And our core brands really are tracking again about where we thought it would be.
So we don't feel any differently than what we've been communicating.
Okay there are no further...
I guess -- thank you for joining us for today's conference call.
And Matt Miller and myself will be available for any follow-up questions that any analysts and investors will have.
Thank you so much.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Phyllis and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Hershey Company Fourth Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Mark Pogharian you may begin your conference.
Thank you Phyllis.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to The Hershey Company's Fourth Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
J.P.
Bilbrey President and CEO; Bert Alfonso Senior Vice President and CFO; and I will represent Hershey on this morning's call.
We also welcome those of you listening in on the webcast.
Let me remind everyone listening that today's conference call may contain statements which are forward-looking.
These statements are based on current expectations which are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements because of factors such as those listed in this morning's press release and in our 10-K for 2011 filed with the SEC.
If you have not seen the press release a copy is posted on our corporate website in the Investor Relations section.
Included in the press release is a consolidated balance sheet and a summary of consolidated statements of income prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Within the Notes section of the press release we have provided adjusted pro forma reconciliations of select income statement line items quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.
The company uses these non-GAAP measures as key metrics for evaluating performance internally.
These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP rather the company believes the presentation of earnings excluding certain items provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations.
As a result we will discuss 2012 fourth quarter results excluding net pretax charges of $24.3 million or $0.08 per share diluted primarily related to costs associated with the Project Next Century non-service-related pension expense and integration costs for the Brookside Foods acquisition.
Our discussion of any future projections will also exclude the impact of these net charges.
With that out of the way let me turn the call over to J.P.
Bilbrey.
Thanks Mark and good morning to everyone on the phone and webcast.
I'm pleased with Hershey's fourth quarter and full year financial and marketplace results which represent a solid end to another good year.
We accomplished our 2012 objectives while growing adjusted EPS 14.5% our fourth consecutive year of double-digit percentage increases.
We continue to build and execute our consumer-centric business model and are creating a virtuous cycle that is delivering predictable profitable and sustainable results.
We've accelerated profitable organic sales growth increased our leadership position in the U.S.
marketplace boosted margins and returns and delivered record profitability.
Outside of the U.S.
and Canada our businesses continue to grow and barring any dramatic changes related to foreign currency we're on a path to achieve net sales of $1 billion in these markets by the end of 2014.
We're operating from a position of strength.
We believe there are far more opportunities ahead than successes behind us because at The Hershey Company the future is not where we're headed but what we're creating.
Now for an overview of the U.S.
candy mint and gum category.
Growth was solid in 2012 and within the 3% to 4% historical growth rate.
As has been the case for the last few years the gum category has been challenged.
Excluding a decline of minus 5.5% for the gum category this year chocolate sweets and refreshment grew a combined 5.2% in 2012.
This increase outpaced other snack alternatives such as salty snacks cookies and crackers.
The chocolates sweets and refreshment categories continue to grow driven by investments in the form of both innovation and advertising.
The category is performing well with good brand-building efforts across many brands creating excitement trial and emotional connectivity between brands and consumers in our category.
As a result looking forward in 2013 we would expect the CMG category growth to be in the 3.5% to 4.5% range.
For the full year 2012 Hershey's net sales increased 9.3% and were relatively balanced between net price realization and volume including the Brookside acquisition.
In the fourth quarter net sales excluding Brookside and FX increased 9.3% slightly better than our expectation driven by volume growth of 7%.
As expected with last year's pricing action essentially behind us core brand volume growth was more than double the contribution from new products.
From a profitability perspective overall earnings were in line with our expectations although SG&amp;A spending was a bit higher as our financial flexibility enabled us to make some investments to ensure we ended the year strong and enter 2013 with momentum.
This is reflected in our fourth quarter marketplace performance as we gained market share in every segment that's chocolate sweets and refreshments and gum.
In terms of Hershey's marketplace performance let me start with Halloween.
Halloween results were in line with expectations.
The late October storm that affected the East Coast did not have a material impact on our overall Halloween results.
Retail sell-through was solid and we gained 0.8 share points in this important season.
Now for some details on overall fourth quarter marketplace performance.
Hershey CMG retail takeaway for the 12 weeks ending December 29 2012 in channels that account for about 90% of our U.S.
retail business was up 7%.
This resulted in a 1.2 point market share again.
As a reminder this is xAOC+C-store data consisting of the food drug mass x and C-store channels plus the inclusion of Walmart partial Dollar club and the military channels.
For the full year Hershey U.S.
retail takeaway and market share was up 5.7% or 0.6 points respectively.
CMG fourth quarter category growth in the xAOC+C channels was up 2.6%.
As I mentioned earlier gum continues to be a drag; and excluding it the chocolate sweets and refreshment categories are up a combined 4.1%.
Importantly CMG category growth sequentially improved in the traditional FDMx channels from flattish in Q3 to plus 1.4% in Q4.
As has been the case all year long Hershey has outperformed the CMG category in the FDMx channels with retail takeaway of plus 4.8% resulting in a gain of one full market share point in 2012.
Fourth quarter xAOC+C-store chocolate category growth was up plus 4.5%.
Hershey's xAOC+C-store chocolate retail takeaway was up plus 5.8% resulting in a gain of 0.5 points of chocolate market share.
Core brands such as Reese's Kit Kat Kisses and ROLO all gained share.
Fourth quarter xAOC+C-store non-chocolate category growth was up plus 2.5%.
Hershey's non-chocolate xAOC+C-store retail takeaway was up 12.6% resulting in a market share gain of 1.2 points.
Our performance here continues to be driven by Jolly Rancher innovation and Twizzlers.
In the C-store channel CMG fourth quarter category growth was plus 2.7% and was impacted by the double-digit percentage decline in the gum category.
Total Hershey C-store performance was strong with takeaway of 9.8% resulting in a share gain of 2.1 points.
Our C-store performance was driven by chocolate and mint retail takeaway of 11.2% and 15.2%.
As we look to 2013 we have many exciting products promotions programs and merchandising in place across all channels including our annual Reese's NCAA basketball program; a Twizzler tie-in with the upcoming Superman movie; various promotions with the pop band Gym Class Heroes that will focus on the Jolly Rancher and Twizzlers brands; increased distribution in in-store merchandising and programming of Hershey's S'mores; and the launch of many new products to include Kit Kat Minis Twizzlers Bites Jolly Rancher Bites and yet to be announced new products that we are very excited about.
We continue to feel very good about the direction of our core U.S.
business as we are bringing innovative news variety and excitement to the category.
We'll support our core business in the aforementioned initiatives with coordinated in-store programming merchandising and advertising that will drive trial repeat and increased velocity.
I'm also excited about the broader launch of Brookside products into the FDMx channels.
Brookside has increased sales at a compound annual growth rate of about 20% over the last several years.
With our additional manufacturing capacity now online Brookside 2013 net sales growth will exceed this historical CAGR.
Three SKUs in a standup 7-ounce resealable pouch will begin shipping to retailers -- began shipping to retailers a few weeks ago.
Our research indicates strong appeal among many of the consumers identified within our confectionery demand landscape.
Therefore we believe Brookside will attract new consumers to the confectionery category by focusing on unmet consumer needs.
Once targeted ACV is achieved year-round TV advertising will begin.
We expect this to be sometime in late February as well as high-value FSI coupons sampling at key customers and significant in-store merchandising and programming.
Note that we'll also increase Brookside advertising in Canada where a national TV campaign will begin in July.
Our solid position in the U.S.
marketplace continues to give us the financial flexibility to invest in key international markets.
In China Brazil and Mexico we made solid progress in 2012.
Net sales in these markets were all above plan with local currency sales up double digits on a percentage basis versus last year.
However as I stated the last couple of quarters due to the strength of the U.S.
dollar in 2012 foreign currency exchange rates were a headwind.
Therefore full year 2012 sales growth outside the U.S.
and Canada including the impact of FX was 12% below our 15% to 20% target.
In 2013 based on current exchange rates net sales outside the U.S.
and Canada will increase to 15% to 20% keeping us on a path to reach $1 billion in net sales by the end of 2014.
Our brands are gaining distribution trial and more importantly repeat purchases.
On-shelf velocity is increasing and will build on our momentum in 2013 and accelerate brand building investments across the board.
Think about this as market research sampling innovation advertising in-store selling capabilities and so on.
In China Hershey's Kisses and Hershey's solid chocolate globe product in the instant consumable tin are doing very well.
In 2013 we'll extend the portfolio and introduce a premium Kisses Deluxe product and Hershey's Drops and build on our fourth quarter expansion of the traditional Hershey's Milk Chocolate bar.
These initiatives will be supported with sampling and advertising in the cities where we have a solid presence and distribution.
In Mexico our chocolate business had a solid year driven by Hershey's and Kisses.
Additionally in the Mexican food channel which includes Walmart we became the #2 player behind Ferrero.
In 2013 we'll look to build on our chocolate momentum and expand our portfolio.
Pelon Pelo Rico is also doing very well with franchise growth of nearly 25% in 2012.
Pelon is primarily sold in the traditional trade where we have national distribution but the total points are below the industry average; hence in 2013 we're targeting to increase our reach.
In Brazil our chocolate business grew at a pace more than double the category growth.
Market share was up 0.4 points driven by Hershey's tablet bar and the Big Kiss.
In 2013 we'll broadly launch Hershey's  Mais a chocolate-covered wafer product into national accounts and we'll support it as well as the base business with significantly higher media and brand-building initiatives.
We spend much of our time talking about Mexico Brazil and China but there are a lot of great things going on in many other geographies as well.
In our export markets velocity at retail is up and we continue to increase distribution.
And in Canada the Reese brand more than solidified itself as the #1 chocolate brand in the country driven by the continued growth of Reese Minis while the sweets and refreshment portfolio gained 1.4 market share points driven by solid gains for Twizzlers Jolly Rancher and Ice Breakers.
Given the exciting activity across the company in 2013 as well as our commitment to building international capabilities advertising and SM&amp;A are expected to increase at a rate greater than net sales.
These disciplined investments will benefit the company over the near and long term.
Now to wrap up.
I'm very pleased with our 2012 performance.
In the U.S volume trends continue to progress and we expect that will also be the case in 2013 given our planned investments in advertising consumer promotions and innovation.
Bert will provide further details but gross margin gains in 2013 will give us the financial flexibility to make the accelerated SM&amp;A investments I discussed earlier.
Therefore we expect 2013 net sales growth of 5% to 7% including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates and we anticipate adjusted earnings per share diluted growth of 10% to 12% within the $3.56 to $3.63 range.
I'll now turn it over to Bert who will provide some additional detail on our financial results.
Thanks J.P.
and good morning everyone.
Fourth quarter consolidated net sales of $1.75 billion increased 11.7% versus the prior year slightly greater than our expectation.
Our strong top line results allowed us to be flexible in our approach to category and brand-building investments throughout 2012 especially in the fourth quarter.
As expected organic core brand volume trends sequentially improved and were the primary driver of our fourth quarter net sales growth.
Volume excluding the Brookside acquisition was a 7-point benefit in the quarter.
In addition net price realization and foreign currency exchange rates were a 2.3 and 0.3-point benefit respectively.
Profitability improved as fourth quarter adjusted earnings per share diluted of $0.74 increased 5.7% versus last year.
Price realization and supply chain productivity was partially offset by increased investments and go-to-market capabilities and marketing related investments.
For the full year net sales increased 9.3% or 9.8% on a constant currency basis led by net price realization of 5.7 points resulting in adjusted earnings per share diluted of $3.24 an increase of 14.5% versus last year.
J.P.
provided details on our marketplace performance so I'll focus on a review of the P&amp;L and balance sheet starting with gross margin.
During the fourth quarter adjusted gross margin was 43.1% on -- a 140-point increase over the prior year.
This margin improvement was driven by net price realization supply chain productivity and cost saving initiatives.
Gross margin gains were partially offset by higher input costs of about $35 million.
For the full year 2012 adjusted gross margin was 43.8% versus 42.4% in 2011 also an increase of 140 basis points.
Higher net price realization and productivity gains were partially offset by higher input costs.
Fourth quarter adjusted EBIT increased 7.4% resulting in an adjusted EBIT margin of 15.8% a 60-point decline versus last year.
The decline was primarily due to the timing of SM&amp;A investments.
Advertising spending increased 27% in the fourth quarter slightly greater than our expectation of a 20% increase as we took advantage of media-buying opportunities to support our core brands.
As a result full year 2012 advertising increased 15.9% greater than our outlook of 13% to 15%.
Fourth quarter SM&amp;A expenses excluding advertising increased 18.8% as we stepped up our investment in selling marketing and IDP-related capabilities in both the U.S.
and key international markets.
This was a considerable increase from the September year-to-date level of about 9% and slightly above what we had outlined during the last conference call.
For the full year 2012 SM&amp;A advertising increased 11.9% about in line with our double-digit expectation.
Adjusted EBIT for the year increased 12.7% with adjusted EBIT margin up 60 basis points to 18.5% from 17.9%.
The increase was driven by solid net sales growth partially offset by higher input and supply chain costs and investments in SM&amp;A.
Now let me provide a brief update on our international businesses.
Outside of the U.S.
and Canada fourth quarter international reported net sales were up 20% driven by solid double-digit percentage increases in China Mexico and our key export markets.
On a constant currency basis fourth quarter China net sales increased more than 50% driven by base business gains and the introduction of advertising behind Hershey's solid chocolate products.
In Mexico and Brazil fourth quarter sales were up driven by strong investments in brand building and distribution gains.
As J.P.
mentioned given the strong U.S.
dollar in 2012 full year reported net sales in our businesses outside of the U.S.
and Canada increased 12% less than our 15% to 20% target.
In 2013 based on current exchange rates net sales outside the U.S.
and Canada are expected to increase 15% to 20% putting us on a path to reach $1 billion in net sales by the end of 2014.
Moving down the P&amp;L.
Fourth quarter interest expense was about $23 million versus $21 million in the prior period.
For the year interest expense was in line with expectations totaling $96 million versus $92 million a year ago.
In 2013 we expect interest expense to be in the $85 million to $95 million range.
The adjusted tax rate for the fourth quarter was 33.5% up 130 basis points versus a year ago due to the timing of certain tax events.
For the full year the tax rate was 34.7% down 10 basis points.
In 2013 we expect the tax rate to be about the same as the full year 2012 rate although quarterly rates should be less volatile than they were last year and closer to the full year rate.
In the fourth quarter of 2012 weighted average shares outstanding on a diluted basis were approximately 227 million versus 229 million in 2011 leading to adjusted EPS per share diluted of $0.74 an increase of 5.7% versus year ago.
For the full year outstanding shares were approximately 228 million versus approximately 230 million in 2011.
Adjusted EPS diluted for the full year was $3.24 an increase of 14.5%.
Now turning to the balance sheet and cash flow.
At the end of the year net trading capital increased $24 million versus last year.
This is primarily due to accounts receivable increase of $62 million resulting from higher year-over-year December sales.
Our accounts receivable remained very current.
In addition inventories decreased $16 million and accounts payable increased about $22 million.
In terms of other specific cash flow items.
Total company capital additions including software were $64 million in Q4 and $278 million for the full year.
These amounts included Project Next Century capital expenditures of $7 million in the fourth quarter and $75 million in the full year.
In 2013 we expect total CapEx to be about $300 million including capital related to Project Next Century of about $15 million to $20 million.
Depreciation and amortization was $47 million in the fourth quarter all of which was operating depreciation as there was no accelerated depreciation in the quarter.
For the full year 2012 depreciation and amortization expenses were $210 million including accelerated depreciation and amortization of $15 million.
In 2013 we are forecasting total depreciation and amortization of about $200 million to $210 million.
Dividends paid during the quarter were $91 million bringing the full year to $341 million.
Also note that earlier today we announced a regular dividend on our common stock of $0.42 our 333rd consecutive declaration.
During the fourth quarter approximately $13 million of our common shares were repurchased to replace shares issued in connection with stock option exercises.
Cash on hand at the end of the year was $728 million up $35 million versus year ago.
Now let me close by providing some context on our 2013 outlook.
As J.P.
outlined we have initiatives in place that we believe will drive net sales growth across our businesses in 2013.
We're confident of our plans and we expect 2013 net sales growth of 5% to 7% including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates.
We expect our net sales gains to be driven by core brand volume growth in the U.S.
and international markets the launch of the Brookside brand in FDMx channels innovations such as Kit Kat Minis Twizzlers Bites Jolly Rancher's Bites Kisses Deluxe Hershey's Mais and other yet to be announced products.
We have good visibility into our full year cost structure.
As stated in October gross margin will increase in 2013 driven by productivity cost-saving initiatives and the expectation overall input cost deflation.
Therefore we expect 2013 adjusted gross margin expansion of 180 to 200 basis points.
Given this financial flexibility in 2013 we will invest behind business building initiatives.
Total advertising is expected to increase approximately 20%.
In the U.S.
core brand advertising is expected to be about the same as last year or around 2x net sales growth.
Incremental advertising in 2013 will support the Brookside launch base business and innovation in the U.S.
and key international markets.
This includes a broader advertising campaign of the Hershey's brand and other core brand launches in China and Hershey's Mais in Brazil.
SM&amp;A expenses excluding advertising are expected to increase 9% to 11% versus last year.
These investments will build on our go-to-market capabilities established over the last few years as well as consumer insights work underway in key international markets for the 5 global brands.
Additionally the company will continue to expand its IDP initiative invest in international selling and marketing capabilities and support new products with increased levels of consumer promotion and sampling to drive trial and repeat.
As a result we have increased our full year adjusted earnings per share outlook and now expect it to increase 10% to 12% in 2013 which is greater than the previous estimate of 8% to 10%.
And before we open up for Q&amp;A please note the following.
Compared to the first quarter of 2012 the first quarter of 2013 net sales will be impacted by a shorter Easter season in the U.S.
although we will benefit from continued improvements in U.S.
core brand volume trends the launch of Brookside into FDMx channels and the international innovation that I already mentioned.
As a result we expect first quarter 2013 net sales to be within our 5% to 7% long-term target.
We expect solid gross margin expansion throughout the year to drive EBIT dollar and adjusted EPS diluted growth across all quarters in 2013.
However recall the SG&amp;A x advertising was about flat in the first quarter of 2012.
We don't expect that to be the case in 2013 as we'll make investments in go-to-market capabilities and costs incurred related to Brookside and the international new product launches that occur early in the year.
Therefore given all of the moving parts between last year and this year our expectation is that first half EBIT margin will be pressured and adjusted EPS diluted growth will be greater in the second half of the year.
All right.
Thank you Bert.
Operator before we open the lines for Q&amp;A note that it's a busy day for earnings announcements.
Therefore out of respect for those companies as well as everyone in the investment community please limit yourself to one question as we are going to attempt to end the conference call at around 9:30 a.m.
Operator we'll now take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jonathan Feeney with Janney Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just one question.
Brookside Farms could you give us more detail in terms of -- of your current footprint where you're selling any confectionery product today in North America what percent of ACV is Brookside in already and how big do you think -- what percent of ACV do you think Brookside -- just in terms of channel.
I mean who knows what -- the consumer is obviously more difficult question.
But in terms of channel what percent of ACV is Brookside a relevant product to stock in would you say? Yes so let me just build the base real quickly.
Recall that in the U.S.
it was primarily in Costco when we made the acquisition and then it was available broadly across Canada but it wasn't advertised across Canada.
So as we've continued to build out the distribution in Canada we'll be advertising it this year.
And the trade reaction to the product as we've been expanding it in the U.S.
has been extremely positive.
We would expect it to really be in all the channels where our products are today with the exception early on of convenience where we haven't yet built out the packaging that we think will be appropriate for convenience although we certainly plan to do that because we think it's a great on-the-go product.
So you would expect it to look very similar to the balance of our line in 2013.
And then beyond we believe that we'll continue to build region penetration with the product.
Your next question comes from the line of Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask about what innings you're in in terms of the category captaincy role that I think you're now playing at maybe Walmart and some of the drug stores.
As I remember it that initiative started a few years ago.
I think you got into Walmart or a large mass merchant about 2 years ago.
Is there still more benefit to come from that initiative? Or are you basically sort of at the point that you want to be in terms of those -- that sales advice in those stores? Yes I think that it's continuing to evolve and we feel quite good about the progress that we've made.
Just for a bit of historical perspective we've always played an important role in terms of category captain across a meaningful percentage of our customers.
With IDP specifically which you're referencing we continue to expand that across the largest customers where they also have the capabilities in place for us to be able to work well together on joint business planning and research projects.
So we believe this is an important cornerstone of how we go to market.
We continue to learn and grow here and we do that with our retailers at the same time.
So we're quite optimistic.
It's important and we believe we'll continue to make solid gains because of those joint planning relationships.
Your next question comes from the line of David Palmer with UBS.
Research Division</strong> That fourth quarter it did look like a quarter of abnormally high shipments and marketing spending and that happens from time to time just because of timing.
Is there going to be -- is it likely that there will be a little bit of a moderation in the shipments into the first half? Or do you feel like you're in a good balance right now? Well as we look at our planning stance in 2013 and as you know we've given guidance of 5% to 7% net sales growth we believe that it will look pretty balanced across the quarters.
We don't specifically guide to the quarters but we think the year looks pretty balanced.
We felt good about the fourth quarter in particular that while seasons is important to us in the fourth quarter -- we always talk about the business in sort of thirds and seasons being one of those.
In the fourth quarter seasons is probably about 20%.
We had what we would describe as low retail inventories going into the fourth quarter.
So a lot of the volume that we saw in the fourth quarter was really around our core brands and base business.
Price was important to us in the fourth quarter.
So as we had talked about sequential improvement across '12 we really saw that happen.
And the quality of our sales in the fourth quarter I think was really high.
So we felt good about it and we're saying that we think the category will be between 3.5% and 4% growth in 2013.
And as -- we'd like to see ourselves growing share in that environment.
Research Division</strong> And as you're building up Brookside are you thinking -- oftentimes these new smaller brands it's better to let them be discovered by the type of consumers that you want for them.
Are you thinking of marketing that brand differently as you expand that? Well yes I think David because of the nature of the brand you'll probably see different media types as we talk about the brand but we expect to have a strong marketing program behind Brookside.
As you know we've got the capacity to allow the brand to grow so we're in a good place there.
And so we continue to be really excited about it and the consumer response that we've had has been really positive as well.
Your next question comes from the line of John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> In the -- thinking about your outlook for adjusted gross margin growth in 2013 can you speak a bit to the drivers of productivity there? Is the private being  [indiscernible] in the joint warehousing alliance? And then maybe just thinking about that going forward can you identify any opportunities to expand that alliance outside North America? Yes talking about the expansion we gave -- obviously gave some guidance which we feel good about and so we're saying 180 to 200 basis points pivoting off of where we ended up the year at 43.8%.
I would tell you that our productivity programs continue to be quite strong and 2013 continues to be a strong incremental year for Project Next Century even though the investment behind it is largely complete.
We said that by 2014 you'll start to get to the full year rates.
So last year in 2012 we had productivity in and around that $80 million range.
And while we might expect it to be slightly below that this year our emphasis on our ability to have savings of around 3% on our non-commodity cost of goods remains on track.
To your specific reference around the Ferrero initiative where we're -- have a logistics arrangement where we both ship product together that is making progress in 2013 but part of that is the construction of a Canadian facility.
And so you won't see the full benefit of that until '14 although it will increase from 2012.
So productivity remains extremely strong and a good part of our program.
Clearly the commodity decline if you will year-on-year as we've seen moderation and some of our key commodities is also expected to really benefit it next year.
So that does play an important part.
But from our perspective we're planning to invest behind the business and -- as well as grow our earnings and what we think is a good return from those gross margin gains.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's earlier in the year than usual for you guys to raise guidance so your confidence seems high.
And I imagine given your historically conservative nature I guess you're leaving some room for further upside.
So as you look down the P&amp;L could you maybe shed some light on which line items you think there's the most upside? I'm curious for example if you're leaving some leeway in the gross margin line in case some of the costs move around on the dairy side or maybe you're estimating a slower build in Brookside than what you actually think will happen.
I'm just curious if you can kind of lay out the -- some of those answers if you could.
Yes Ken I would say that we've given what we think is our best view of gross margin expansion and obviously there's a range there for things like what you're mentioning which is -- dairy is one of those that can be more volatile while at the same time there's less inability to develop hedge strategies around that.
Clearly what we're seeing is a year that we're expecting will be driven by volume.
And so that's an area that we're keeping track.
And we're encouraged by where we're starting the year as well as where we ended the year.
I'd say new products and Brookside it's a little early to tell but we do have probably more new product activity in the pipeline this year across the globe than we've had in a number of other years.
So to your point we think we're giving the right guidance around gross margin.
Below that we do have a significant amount of spend and we always have flexibility around that spend.
We're going to be aggressive because we think we're getting the right top line growth that meets our strategic needs.
But I'd say that that's where you might have flexibility if we decide that that's the appropriate thing to do.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess my question revolves -- did you say actually what level of deflation you expect in 2013 on the inputs? And then kind of on the back of that we've -- I don't ever recall seeing for example gum lowering prices.
Obviously that part of the category is suffering.
And chocolate as you mentioned J.P.
are gaining share.
So why wouldn't your competitors who are likely also getting the benefit of deflation -- why shouldn't we see more promotion thrown back into the business especially as you guys continue to roll out these hand-held product that kind of goes right up against M&amp;M Mars's core? Let me take the first part of that.
No we have not given any specifics around deflation and really we're not planning to.
Erik I continue to believe that as the category has made progress against pricing -- and let's put gum aside for a second.
I think that if you look at this category relative to a number of other categories across the store we've done well.
We believe this will be a year that volume drives the growth in the category.
And assuming that story comes true there shouldn't be a great temptation for us to think any differently about how we market our products.
I think that we're bringing good news to the consumer.
I think the products are positioned in a way that they provide good value.
And then from a retailers' perspective they're also looking for friends in these categories that are producing good profit and are growing at the same time.
It's a highly merchandised category.
You find it in a number of places across the store seasons of course plays a role.
So I'm not so sure that that's the lever that maybe once the category had relied more on.
We're seeing a higher percentage of sales at full revenue kind of year-over-year and where -- if I went back 5 years ago you would have seen call it 52% 54% of sales in the category maybe on promotion.
And you might see it almost flipped from that today.
And those aren't hard and fast numbers but directionally that's probably fairly correct.
So that's my view and that's how I would respond to that question.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Back to Brookside for a minute.
If we think about the 20% planned increase in advertising for '13 and with a similar level behind your core brands at this point certainly implies a large portion going behind obviously the expansion of Brookside.
And no matter how you slice that number it would put the advertising as a percent of sales ratio on that brand obviously at a pretty massive level obviously ahead of what kind of growth you ultimately expect.
So it's certainly a big bet and suggests maybe you see the brand ultimately at multiples of where it is today in terms of sales.
But I'm trying to get a sense have you put this much behind a new brand before? And I guess what is it about the brand's performance whether it's in Canada or what you've seen so far here albeit it's early days that kind of gives you that level of confidence that this level of spend ultimately pays off? Well first of all we have in place a business model now that when we're introducing brands we want to make sure that we fully support them on a sustainable basis as we roll them out into the market and we're going to certainly do that with Brookside.
We're very optimistic about the brand and we do believe that while we're in the first round of expansion that this is a brand that probably has relevance more broadly than the markets that we're currently talking about.
It's also important to remember that we're expanding advertising across a number of our markets in China and Brazil and Mexico.
And so as you look at the comments we made about the U.S.
advertising spend and then take Brookside which is incremental and then think about what we're doing broadly it all doesn't come down to being spent on Brookside.
With that said we're going to have a very aggressive position around building the Brookside brand as we expand it creating awareness introducing it to consumers creating trial and so on.
So again we're going -- we're very serious about building brands and we see Brookside as an important one.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just a question about the investment in the international markets.
I guess just doing a back-of-the-envelope calculation the upside or the flexibility that you've got to increase spending this year is something north of $50 million.
So I guess could you talk a little bit about first how much of the capital -- how much of your $300 million in capital spending is also going to the international markets? And then also just how that organic spending -- kind of more greenfield as opposed to acquisitions? Are you having more effect I guess on sort of building as opposed to buying as you build out those markets? Yes Bryan with respect to the capital you're correct a greater percentage of that capital is non-U.S.
in 2013.
And we talked about last June if you recall having the need to expand for volume growth in Asia specifically.
And so while we've not commented on exact location you're quite right your observation is a good one in terms of more capital being deployed outside of the U.S.
And while we still have some against Project Next Century I mentioned it was at quite a low number in the 15% to 20% range.
We're always going to have some amount of our capital which is either maintenance driven or driven in things like IT technology and the like.
But a lot of our capital is margin enhancing and business building if you want to call it that.
So more of it is deployed outside of the U.S.
in 2013 and you might see that starting to be more common in -- as we go forward given that we feel pretty good about our footprint in the U.S.
while still growing volume.
We think we have the right number of facilities if you will.
Research Division</strong> And I guess my question was more you're going to spend more P&amp;L dollars you're increasing your P&amp;L spending as well there.
And has that organic investment been better than what you were thinking a year ago? More kind of implying you can build it as opposed to making acquisition or are acquisitions still part of the international expansion? Yes I think we look first at our organic business.
Obviously that's our priority.
And the reflection of spend really is a reflection on new product introductions.
I think J.P.
mentioned we have a number of them in China.
We're planning to launch additional new products in Brazil.
And so these markets where we've invested in infrastructure and are at a point where we feel that we've done the right market research to be able to put -- expand those 5 brands in particular those 5 global brands.
M&amp;A is quite different.
It's still a priority for us where we can expand the business inorganically.
Clearly we have the right capability from a balance sheet perspective to do it.
And it is a key priority but we don't put it in our model because it's hard to predict.
And we're going to do our best to find good value return opportunities in M&amp;A but our main focus is our organic business.
One comment I would just add to what Bert has said we've talked about expanding geographies expanding our portfolio.
If you think about our core portfolio and we talk about 5 global brands with Hershey's Kisses Reese's Jolly Rancher and Ice Breakers our opportunity to grow those brands within the footprint that we've been articulating is really significant both that we don't have the penetration we want yet and those categories are also growing rapidly.
So as we continue to invest and prepare ourselves to be able to do that we think it's a great spend.
And the one example I would give you that you may not have heard us talk about before is if we look at the Kisses brand which is the one brand that we have led with around the world with our Kisses brand 32% of the sales on Kisses happen outside the U.S.
So as we continue to expand our other brands we would hope to be able to begin to see an evolution towards that same-type profile.
So that gives us a lot of encouragement and we need to get the other brands within the same framework that we have Kisses and that's a significant opportunity of growth for us.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Congratulations on your momentum particularly in some of your emerging markets.
Mexico China Brazil you've mentioned them numerous times throughout the call here.
Can you help us just sort of contextualize how large they are right now as a percentage of the overall sales? Yes we've talked a little bit about this in the past and within our -- within the context of that $1 billion that we're shooting for non-U.S.
Canada.
And so when you think about our brands outside of the U.S.
and Canada we're at about $700 million and about 2/3 of that are those key geographies.
We haven't specifically talked about market sizes and they're growing at different rates.
We mentioned China 50%.
The others are somewhat below that although still growing very nicely.
And then the other third is our -- is an export business which is quite profitable for us where we have either distribution arrangements in those countries.
And in that side of the business obviously there's significantly less marketing spend than in our key markets.
So think of it as about a $700 million business growing to $1 billion by the end of 2014.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
One quick follow-up.
China great growth this quarter.
Curious if you saw any impact on gift-giving demand whether it's stronger weaker overall and also timing because of the new year whether or not any of that shifted into the first quarter.
Well I think the overall comment is that we continued to see really good trends in China.
Obviously as the seasons there move around you see some of the volume move around.
But as you had a lot of discussion around China and heavy industry and other things and there were some gloomy reports here in 2012 we just never really saw it in our types of products.
So if you think about basic products where the consumer is entering into the economy we continue to feel awfully good and see very positive trends in our China business.
Your next question comes from the line of David Driscoll with Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> So I want to just talk a little bit more about the marketing and advertising.
You've answered a little bit of this kind of throughout a number of questions J.P.
But 27% increase in the fourth quarter and then a massive 20% increase in advertising in 2013 and I believe somebody else I think said $50 million but I think it's like a $100 million increase.
Please correct me if I'm off on that.
We just don't see numbers this large for a large cap food companies almost ever.
Can you just spend just a little bit more time on this -- the dollar magnitude of that increase? And then maybe one specific point is that with that large of a budget you didn't really change your sales growth outlook for 2013.
And maybe I'm just a little curious as to what the effect of the advertising really ought to be on your '13 growth and then if you think maybe is it delayed or how long does it take before that type of an advertising number starts to show up in results.
So take it away please.
Well let me take a whack at all of that.
And Bert can jump in here when he thinks it's appropriate as well.
Let me talk a little bit about it philosophically versus the magnitude of the numbers.
But if you think about your advertising spend at a couple of times net sales growth if you think about our North American businesses and mature businesses that's sort of where we're at.
So a lot of the increases that you're seeing is because Brookside is a big brand and it's now going to be advertised.
You have the same thing happening in some of the other markets.
Now the spend in the other markets it's going to over-index certainly from an ROI standpoint in the early days of brand building.
But we feel very fortunate that our company's performance right now enables us to be very focused across a few markets that we believe are the most attractive markets and we're getting very encouraging growth where we're executing against a really complete business approach.
It's around brand building.
So I think what you'll see is some of those numbers will look larger to us in the early days but this is -- we think we'll find leverage around both the organization investments and brand-building investments and the accelerator effect behind a growing category and a brand whose awareness is growing is really the leverage that we're betting on is really going to be worth it for us.
And I think the early evidence is that that's the case.
So for me it's really around the philosophies and then the dollars sort of follow how much activity do you believe that you can execute really well against.
Yes David the only other thing that I would add to that is that if you compare it certainly to last year a lot of our innovation happens earlier in the year and by nature we tend to start our advertising when we hit certain levels of distribution and that advertising starts sooner.
So you are getting more of a full year of advertising or more of the year of advertising versus what you might have saw last year just given the timing of our innovation and that will be true across markets.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zaslow with Bank of Montreal.
The outlook for the commodity prices obviously came in lower than probably your initial thoughts were.
What were the incremental projects that you priced ending this commodity I wouldn't say windfall but lower commodity prices towards -- can you get a little bit more specific of like what incremental projects you're taking on earlier than expected? You're talking about again going back to the SM&amp;A discussion? No just in general.
Look my sense is -- I mean maybe I'm wrong is that your commodity outlook was better than you would have thought for 2013.
And I am assuming that you're not dropping all of it to the bottom line that there might be some incremental projects that you might be taking on earlier even if it's not -- obviously your advertising went up a little bit more but there might be some certain targeted brands or targeted projects that maybe you may have thought about doing in 2014 and you might be doing in 2013? Let me respond quickly and then Bert can comment as well.
I don't think of it so much as we're taking new things on as we're able to continue executing against the strategies that we have at a level that we would like to be able to do that.
That's really I come back to my comment I made earlier that our solid financial performance has enabled us to continue to grow in these new markets and invest in growing our brands in the U.S.
And if we continue to say we believe the North American market the U.S in particular is a growth market we continue to see strong category growth levels.
We want to participate and drive that and grow share going forward.
So we're going to continue to invest in our brands.
As you know we went for a number of years where we didn't do that and it didn't work so well for us.
And the business model that we're executing against now we know does work but we can only do it in so many markets at any given time.
But in this particular environment it enables us to really execute against those focus markets we've talked about and expand these 5 global brands and be serious about really being a brand-building company.
Your final question comes from the line of Thilo Wrede with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on aerated chocolate or Air Delight and Simple Pleasures.
Those products have been in the market for a while now.
What's your assessment of them? Well we feel very good about Simple Pleasures.
It meets the need of an indulgent chocolate with a consumer who's looking for what we call control more of a moderator of their consumption.
So it's built good distribution.
We've got good advertising that we think is working behind that brand.
It's gotten the right level of distribution and trial.
So we feel really good about that.
Air Delight as I talked on the last call we've adjusted our advertising approach there.
We think it was probably a little bit harder to compete with indulgent 100% milk chocolate with the Aerated product and so we weren't really talking enough about the indulgence of the experience and so we've adjusted for that.
And as I said I think because we're introducing the consumer in the U.S.
to a different type of experience obviously these products were available outside the U.S.
It takes a little bit more work to do that but we continue to feel really good about the product.
It continues to make progress.
So that would be a couple of thoughts I would have on those 2 brands.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on that will the innovation in chocolates continue to be mainly minis and bites and pieces that kind of thing? Or will we see more  true -- I don't want to call it brand innovation but true new chocolate innovation going forward as well? Well I think you may see a mix of format innovation as well.
But whether the innovation comes from package usage occasion et cetera as long as it's driving growth that's meeting the needs of consumers or else it wouldn't be working.
So we feel pretty good about what we've been able to do in hand to mouth.
We've expanded that across multiple brands and we talked earlier about Kit Kat Minis and ROLO et cetera and we'll continue to do some of those.
But we're always looking at different format opportunities adjacencies and so on.
And with the Air Delight it's the same kind of thing.
It's -- you're building a new concept and so that could be hard work.
But as I said we'd like to see that brand succeed.
Thank you for joining us on today's conference call.
Matt Miller and myself will be available for any follow-up questions you may have and we'll see all of you at CAGNY in a couple of weeks.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Phyllis and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Hershey Company's First Quarter 2013 Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Mark Pogharian you may begin your conference.
Thank you Phyllis.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to The Hershey Company's First Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
J.P.
Bilbrey President and CEO; Bert Alfonso Senior Vice President and CFO; Dave Tacka; and I will represent Hershey on this morning's call.
We also welcome those of you listening via the webcast.
Let me remind everyone listening that today's conference call may contain statements which are forward looking.
These statements are based on current expectations which are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements because of factors such as those listed in this morning's press release and in our 10-K for 2012.
If you have not seen the press release a copy is posted on our corporate website in the Investor Relations section.
Included in the press release is a consolidated balance sheet and a summary of consolidated statements of income prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Within the Notes section of the press release we have provided adjusted pro forma reconciliations of select income statement line items quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.
The company uses these non-GAAP measures as key metrics for evaluating performance internally.
These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP.
Rather the company believes the presentation of earnings excluding certain items provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations.
As a result we will discuss 2013 first quarter results excluding net pretax charges of $10.6 million or $0.03 per share diluted primarily related to costs associated with Project Next Century non-service-related pension expense and acquisition and integration costs.
Our discussion of any future projections will also exclude the impact of these net charges.
With that out of the way let me turn the call over to J.P.
Bilbrey.
Thanks Mark and good morning to everyone on the phone and webcast.
I'm pleased with Hershey's first quarter financial and marketplace results which represents a solid start to the year.
Despite a tough year-ago comp and a shorter Easter season net sales increased plus 5.5% driven primarily by volume.
Sales growth in the U.S.
and key international markets were on track versus plan and the broader launch of Brookside products got off to a fast start.
Earnings growth was slightly greater than we anticipated driven by solid gross margin gains.
We're well positioned to deliver on our financial commitments in 2013 as the investments we've made in our business in Q1 and over the last few years continue to pay dividends.
As it relates to yesterday's personnel announcements I'm very excited.
These moves are consistent with our philosophy of leadership development.
These senior leaders are Hershey and industry veterans with deep knowledge of our business.
They all had an integral role in the development of our integrated business management process and insights-driven performance model that guides all of our business decisions.
Importantly this will enable us to further leverage their unique skills to drive Hershey's accelerated growth as we evolve into a global company.
Our company is structured for accelerated global growth and we're fully aligned on how to achieve our goals.
I look forward to working with all of my colleagues in building on our solid performance.
Bert will provide you with financial details so let me discuss category and Hershey marketplace performance.
The confectionery category continues to perform well with recent gains exceeding the category's historical growth rate.
The category continues to be driven by the steady investments in the form of advertising and innovation for most major manufacturers.
Given the high household penetration impulsivity as well as affordable price points we believe retailers and consumers will continue to value the confectionery category.
In fact Hershey's Q1 household penetration was solid and outpaced other snack categories.
We're very pleased with our marketplace performance and for the 12- and 52-week periods ended March 23 we gained market share in every channel where we compete.
Additionally Q1 market share gains driven by volume occurred across all major pack types including standard bars king size take-home packaged candy and multi-packs.
Before we get into the specifics recall that in 2013 Easter occurred on March 31 and in 2012 on April 8.
Therefore the timing of Easter obviously has and will impact Nielsen and IRI data related to the March and April periods.
Despite the Easter season being shorter versus last year most customers had a higher percentage dollar sell-through versus last year.
Preliminary analysis of the data indicates that Hershey's Easter market share was about flat and in line with our expectations.
Easter timing aside Hershey's marketplace performance was solid.
CMG or candy mint and gum retail takeaway for the 12 weeks ending March 23 increased 9.4%.
As a reminder this is xAOC+C-store data consisting of the food drug MassX and C-store channels plus the inclusion of Walmart and partial Dollar Club and Military channels.
Excluding Easter seasonal activity in both the current and year-ago period a better yet still imperfect measure our retail takeaway was up 8.6%.
Perhaps the easiest way to assess performance given seasonal timing and therefore noise in the data is by looking at absolute market share results.
We gained market share both with and without the Easter seasonal activity.
All in including the seasonal activity Hershey Q1 CMG market share in the xAOC+C universe increased by 1.4 points.
Including Easter seasonal activity first quarter CMG category growth in the xAOC+C channels was up 4.3%.
Gum continues to be a drag on total CMG performance and excluding it the chocolate sweets and refreshment categories were up a combined 6.5%.
Excluding Easter seasonal activity in the current and year-ago period combined category growth of chocolate sweets and refreshment was up 5.4%.
Looking at the FDMx channel CMG category growth sequentially improved again from low-single digits in Q4 to plus 4.2% in Q1.
However there is a bit of a benefit from an earlier Easter but it's evident that there is a correlation to seasonal candy being a destination category.
Hershey continues to outperform the CMG category in the FDMx channels with retail takeaway of plus 9.2% resulting in a market share gain of 1.3 points.
First quarter xAOC+C category growth including and excluding Easter was up 6.9% and 5.4% respectively.
Hershey's xAOC+C chocolate retail takeaway including and excluding Easter was up 10.1% and 9.6% respectively resulting in an overall gain of 1.3 points of chocolate market share.
Core brands such as Hershey's Reese's Kit Kat Kisses Ice Breakers and as well as Brookside all gained share.
First quarter xAOC+C non-chocolate category growth including and excluding Easter was up 5.4% and 5.3% respectively.
Hershey's xAOC+C non-chocolate retail takeaway including and excluding Easter was up 3.5% and 2% respectively resulting in an overall market share decline of 0.3 points.
As it relates to the mint category we continue to build our Ice Breaker Duos momentum.
Specifically our Q1 xAOC+C mint retail takeaway was 14.5% with market share up 2 points.
We now have a 39 share of this fast-growing $750 million category.
In the C-store class of trade where the Easter impacts are minimal the CMG category was up about 1%.
However this was significantly impacted by the double-digit percentage decline in the gum category.
Excluding gum candy and mint were up a combined 4.3%.
Total Hershey C-store performance was strong with takeaway up 6.3% resulting in a share gain of 1.7 points.
Our C-store chocolate and mint retail takeaway was particularly solid up 7.7% and 14.2% respectively.
These gains were driven by core brand advertising in-store selling merchandising and programming including our successful Reese's promotional tie-in with the NCAA March Madness basketball tournament.
In the U.S.
marketplace over the remainder of the year we have many exciting products promotions programs and merchandising in place across all channels and these include a Twizzler tie-in with the upcoming Superman movie; various promotions with the pop band Gym Class Heroes that were focused on the Jolly Rancher and Twizzlers brands; the Q2 launch of Kit Kat Minis and the standup pouch in king-size offering; a baking season ROLO Pretzel Delight promotion; and the launch of a yet-to-be-announced new product that we're very excited about.
The broader launch of Brookside in the U.S.
is on track.
We reached targeted distribution at the end of February and began television advertising.
Brookside is growing in all channels including the established club business.
Initial consumer response has been positive with all 3 7-ounce flavors in the top 10 chocolate pouch velocities in the food channel.
Brookside is currently the fastest-growing dark chocolate brand in the xAOC+C universe and we're very excited about its potential.
We anticipate that Brookside will be about 1 point of total company sales growth in 2013.
In Q2 we'll be tracking repeat purchases and consumption patterns and will then have a clear indication of the brand's success.
Outside of the U.S.
our international business was relatively in line with our forecast.
China Mexico and Brazil were standouts of solid double digits on a percentage basis versus the last year both on a reported and constant currency basis.
In China Hershey continues to be one of the fastest-growing international chocolate companies as our chocolate growth rate is more than double the category in the cities where we're focused.
We had a good Chinese New Year season driven by Kisses.
In Q1 the China Kisses business gained 1.2 market share points and now has a 5.8-point national share of the market.
Advertising on the Hershey's brand which started in Q4 continues and is having the desired effect.
We're primarily concentrating on 5 Eastern markets and we're seeing solid velocity and retail takeaway.
In Mexico we continue to see strong growth in the Hershey's and Kisses franchises.
In February during the important Valentine season Kisses grew 16.7% in the Mexico supermarket channel and became the largest selling brand in that class of trade.
And over the last 3 months in the C-store channel Hershey's was the fastest growing chocolate brand with retail takeaway of 13.6%.
In Brazil we continue to build on our momentum.
We've added advertising in Rio de Janeiro and in the focus regions of So Paulo Hershey has surpassed a local brand to become the third-largest tablet bar brand.
The broader launch related to increased capacity for Hershey's Mais is on track.
Product was available to customers in January and the first quarter response was strong.
And in Canada we continue to build on our momentum as our CMG market share increased 0.3 points.
Our chocolate business gained plus 0.1 points while our sweets and refreshments market share increased 0.7 points driven by Jolly Rancher the fastest-growing candy brand in Canada in addition to Ice Breakers.
Needless to say we're pleased with the direction of the business.
There are exciting things happening in our focus markets and we remain on track towards the aspirational goals we've shared with you over the last year.
Now to wrap up.
We're pleased with our Q1 performance.
The strong start to 2013 is similar to 2012.
The category continues to grow and there's a lot of activity during the second quarter which once we get past will give us a better perspective on our potential for the full year.
The overall macroeconomic environment appears to be getting better but it is still difficult to predict consumer sentiment and purchasing patterns.
Over the remainder of the year we've seen net sales growing comfortably within our long-term net sales target of 5% to 7% including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates.
While it is still a bit early in the year to predict where dairy prices could go we have good visibility into our cost structure and expect to achieve adjusted gross margin expansion of 190 to 210 basis points.
This is enabling us to make SM&amp;A investments innovation advertising consumer promotions and go-to-market capabilities across our businesses in both the U.S.
and international markets.
As a result we anticipate 2013 adjusted earnings per share diluted growth of about 12%.
I'll now turn it over to Bert who will provide some additional financial detail.
Thank you J.P.
and good morning everyone.
First quarter results were solid with consolidated net sales of $1.83 billion up 5.5% versus the prior year and in line with our expectations.
Adjusted earnings per share diluted of $1.09 up 13.5% was a bit better than expected due primarily to solid gross margin gains and the timing of some SM&amp;A investments.
J.P.
provided details related to our marketplace performance so I'll focus on the review of the P&amp;L balance sheet and cash flow.
As expected first quarter sales gains were driven primarily by volume increases that contributed 5.3% benefit including about 2 points from the broader launch of Brookside products in the U.S.
food drug and mass channels.
Net price realization was a 0.5 point benefit and foreign currency exchange rates was a 0.03 point headwind.
We continue to see consistent growth in our key international markets as they contributed about 1.5 points of the already mentioned 5.3% growth excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates.
Our U.S.
seasonal business continues to be strong as we followed up a solid fourth quarter holiday season with an improved Easter sell-through.
As J.P.
mentioned initial analysis of the data indicates that Hershey Easter market share was about flat and in line with our expectations.
It is worth noting that in a shorter season we do not get the full benefit of our packaged candy line as purchase frequency is impacted by fewer days.
Turning now to margins.
In the first quarter adjusted gross margin increased 240 basis points driven by lower commodity cost of about $35 million and solid supply chain productivity.
As previously stated while it's still a bit early in the year to predict where dairy prices could go we have good visibility into our cost structure and there is no material change in our full year outlook.
Given our strong start to the year and solid productivity outlook we now expect adjusted gross margin expansion of 190 to 200 basis points which is slightly greater than our previous estimate of 180 to 200 basis points.
The improvement in adjusted gross margin was the primary contributor of growth to adjusted EBIT up 9.3% year-over-year resulting in an EBIT margin of 22% up 70 basis points over the first quarter of 2012.
SM&amp;A excluding advertising increased about 9% in the first quarter less than our initial estimates.
The lower SM&amp;A was primarily due to the timing related to planned increases in staffing and capability initiatives that will increase our international expansion.
For the full year we continue to expect SM&amp;A excluding advertising to increase at a rate greater than net sales.
And we expect increases in Q2 and Q3 to be higher than the first quarter increase.
These planned investments in both the U.S.
and international markets should benefit the company over the near and long term.
Advertising expense increased 22% in Q1 in line with our forecast supporting core brands and new products.
The annual increase in advertising expense remains the same and is expected to be up about 20% versus last year supporting the Brookside launch and innovation in both the U.S.
and key international markets.
Now let me provide a brief update of our international businesses.
We are pleased with the first quarter progress in our focus markets especially China Brazil and Mexico whose combined top line growth exceeded 20%.
We remain committed to these markets and we'll continue to make the necessary investments to build brand equity and drive trial and repeat purchases.
Total reported first quarter international net sales excluding Canada increased about 10% versus last year.
Net sales growth in export markets which continues to see good velocity of retail tempered in the first quarter as we lapped prior year distribution gains.
There is no change to our full year outlook and international net sales.
And based on current exchange rates we are on a path to achieve net sales of $1 billion in these markets by the end of 2014.
Moving down to P&amp;L.
First quarter interest expense of $23.6 million slightly declined versus $24 million last year.
And in 2013 we continue to expect interest expense to be approximately $85 million to $95 million.
Our first quarter tax rate was 34.4% and lower than last year due to the timing of certain tax events.
Excluding the tax rate impacts associated with business realignment and impairment charges we continue to expect full year tax rate to be about the same as last year.
The tax rate in Q2 will be about 35% slightly greater than Q1 but higher than the 32% in last year's second quarter and this tax rate difference will impact second quarter EPS diluted.
In the first quarter of 2013 weighted average shares outstanding on a diluted basis were approximately $228 million versus $229 million in 2012 leading to adjusted earnings per share diluted of $1.09.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow.
At the end of the first quarter net trading capital decreased versus last year's first quarter by $41 million; accounts payable increased $32 million; inventory decreased by $23 million; and accounts receivable was up by $14 million.
Our accounts receivable remain extremely current.
In terms of other specific cash flow items total company capital additions including software were $94 million in Q1.
These amounts included Project Next Century capital expenditures of $2 million.
In 2013 we expect capital additions to be about $300 million.
Depreciation and amortization was $49 million in the first quarter all of which was operating depreciation and amortization as there was no accelerated depreciation in the quarter.
In 2013 we are forecasting total operating depreciation and amortization of about $200 million to $210 million.
Dividends paid during the quarter were $92 million.
Also during the first quarter we repurchased approximately $204 million worth of our common shares to replace shares issued in connection with stock option exercises.
All shares were repurchased in the open market.
Cash on hand at the end of the first quarter was $730 million about the same as at year end.
As it relates to our short-term cash needs the company is well positioned to manage the capital needs of the business.
Our cash flow remains strong and we'll continue to increase as we grow our earnings.
Now let me summarize.
Our U.S.
marketplace performance in measured and non-measured channels is tracking as expected.
To enable our U.S.
momentum during the remainder of the year we have planned for core brand merchandising as well as new product introductions.
We expect growth to be driven primarily by core brand volume increases the U.S.
launch of Brookside in food drug and mass channels and the expansion of our 5 core global brands in key international markets.
As a result we expect 2013 net sales to grow 5% to 7% including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates.
We have good visibility into our full year cost structure and there is no significant change in our input cost outlook for the year.
We continue to expect overall cost deflation in 2013 and given our strong start to the year we are forecasting full year adjusted gross margin expansion of 190 to 210 basis points.
Advertising will be up 20% versus last year and will support the Brookside launch and innovation in both the U.S.
and international markets.
For the full year we continue to expect SM&amp;A excluding advertising to increase at a rate greater than net sales as we plan global go-to-market capabilities and incur costs associated with the broader launch of Brookside.
Therefore we now expect full year adjusted earnings per share diluted growth of about 12%.
We'll now open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jonathan Feeney with Janney Capital Market.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about specifically the costs per unit.
And as those might course over the year you've really seen -- I guess my first question will be this improvement in cost per unit you've seen here with 5% volume growth and a much smaller I think let's say 1% group growth in adjusted COGS how much of that is Project Next Century and how much of that is just would you say is input cost? And over the rest of the year should we expect a similar trajectory in cost as we look at it that way? Yes Jonathan.
We've -- we slightly increased our adjusted gross margin by about 10 points and obviously off an already strong level.
In the first quarter we actually saw very good performance on the productivity side so we gave you sort of an indicator of the $35 million in terms of commodity cost reduction.
But we did have really good productivity in the quarter as we were just getting underway in Next Century last year and starting up the plan.
So we previously said that this year's total productivity included about $25 million of Next Century and about $75 million overall.
I would tell you that the first quarter was a bit better than if you divided it by 4 so that certainly helped.
And as we get through the year your point is a good one we also are getting -- it's largely a volume year as we see it at this point and we do get good absorption particularly on our big brands like Reese's or Hershey where we have great productivity because of the scale.
What you expect to see going out further is probably a little -- a bit lower on the expansion in the second quarter because our volume tends to be the smallest quarter.
And while we do produce a lot that's mostly Halloween product which gets hung up on the balance sheet and sells out in the third.
So it should be solid all year long little bit lower certainly in the first quarter and the second and solid in the back half.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zaslow with Bank of Montral.
Hey Bert with your new role can you talk about what initiative and strategy you'll be taking? And is there any different direction? Or how do you see your role going? I mean it's a new position for you and I just want to kind of -- we may not get another conversation with you that readily so I just kind of think about your big picture thoughts on what you're going to be taking on as President of International? Yes we've actually -- obviously talked about a lot internally.
I think part of what you're going to see is a lot of continuation because we've all as a senior management team spent a lot of time together on our international strategy.
The intention of the role is a bit of our -- of how we're evolving into the international business.
It does give us -- or will give me obviously the ability to look at Latin American and Asian regions on a more combined basis.
We're very focused on the rollout of our 5 global brands that we started to talk about about 6 months ago.
And the good news is that we have very solid teams in place at both the Regional President level and below that at country management.
And so we see that putting more resource as a company against that international growth trajectory.
The ability to assess things across regions which today we do primarily at J.P.'s level but now we'll have some extra insight against that.
But I think strategically you're going to see broad continuation.
And obviously as things evolve I'll have the ability to assess where things may ebb and flow.
But that's the way we're thinking about it.
Do you think there'll be more geographic expansion? And do you think there'll be greater probability of acquisitions globally? We are already pretty focused on the markets that we talk about continuously China Mexico where we're making our biggest bets certainly followed by Brazil and a little bit slower burn on India.
J.P.'s talked in the past about other markets that are interesting for us.
There is a set -- there are Southeast Asian markets that are interesting to a lesser degree Eastern Europe.
We know that Western Europe not for us in terms of the cost benefit.
M&amp;A we're focused clearly on trying to develop growth that's inorganic primarily in our category and possibly adjacent categories where we can get some capabilities and local brands.
So it'll be primarily in the focus markets where we are today.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Moskow with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I looked at the Nielsen data and I got kind of a head fake by how strong it was.
And even when you're giving us the information here I'm a little confused.
So if the category was up -- if your business was up in retail 9.4% with Easter and still up 8.6% without Easter but then your shipments are only up 5.5%.
There must have been another element to this that caused you to be shipping below the rate of consumption.
And I want to know is there a mismatch on pricing? Maybe the pricing got pulled forward into fourth quarter for you but the consumer saw something else in the first quarter.
Is that what it is? I think Rob the way to think about it is first of all we had -- we like to be able to ship to consumption as close as possible.
It's always the goal.
However the retail takeaway was very broad across the entire portfolio and also across some of our biggest brands.
So there's really 2 things to think about.
First of all in the quarter you had a lot of price relative to what in the first quarter last year still would've had the promotional activity.
We had some new item introductions in the first quarter that weren't in this quarter.
And so you really saw at retail a higher percentage of products sold at full revenue which is good for retailers as well.
And then the other item was lower inventory.
And so normally we would probably have something in the range of 4.9 5 weeks of inventory.
And we believe this particular quarter we had probably somewhere in the range about 4.4 4.5.
So that inventory was a bit lower which also impacted shipments there as well.
But we think those are the 2 biggest items that we have.
I don't know Bert if you want to add any other perspective but that's really what we're seeing.
And so we feel quite good about the fact that the share results were what they were and we don't see that we've got any issues in the marketplace in terms of not being able to supply demand.
No J.P.
that sums it up.
I think the little bit of -- mostly the price that you're seeing is -- Easter was the very last of the seasons that we got a bit of price on.
If you'll recall last year the first one was -- or rather Valentine sorry for the confusion.
Valentine was the last season where we saw some pricing.
While most of that ships in the fourth quarter retailers see it in the first quarter.
And so that's the bit of pricing that we did get.
Otherwise all the other pricing has slowed through.
No we didn't get the pricing.
It's what's scanned what you would see in your Nielsen data.
Correct.
Research Division</strong> That's what I thought.
And -- but I think John you were saying -- or J.P.
you were saying that there might have been some inventory burning at the trade.
Is that what you were implying? Well I wouldn't think of it as major burning but what we did see is a lower inventory level than what is usual and we really see it as being the strong offtake that we got.
And then we have the ability obviously to come in behind that.
As I said when I opened we usually like to forecast as closely as possible shipments to consumption as we can and in this case Q1 as we had hoped had a strong category growth and then we were able to obviously grow share during that quarter and build on top of that.
And so it just took us to a lower inventory level than we're usually at.
I think that really -- I don't think there's any mystery beyond that.
I think that really accounts for the difference if you look at the promotion pricing versus previous year and then the inventory drawdown.
Your next question comes from the line of Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask about your investment levels in the markets outside of North America particularly China.
I know that when Campbell went into China and Russia for the first time they were tapping investment levels at a certain number of pennies per share per year.
I believe you're still in investment mode in China.
Is the plan to sort of manage that investment at a certain absolute level going out maybe with a view to reaching breakeven in a certain number of years? So I just want to get a sense of the path to profitability there.
And then as a follow-up question in some other segments we've been hearing about increased price-based competition and from categories particularly in China.
Have you been seeing that at all? Or is it really just a matter of fairly easy environment to take pricing and raw distribution? Sure.
Alexia let me start and then Bert can pick up if he likes.
In terms of our model in China as you've heard us talk in the past about how we think about these concentric circles and economic density and building out our organization and adding brands.
So we don't really think about it at this point in time in terms of how many cents per share.
It would be in terms of our investment level.
What we're really looking at is how do we build a consumer-centric portfolio? How do we get an organization that can execute against that portfolio? And then how can we advertise behind it in a way that we believe those investments are good for us? And we've consistently said we don't want to get out over our skis so we don't want to plow into an investment level that's fixed nor do we want to be constrained by that as we see opportunities.
So I think you would continue to see us in an investment mode in China.
As you know we believe we have good gross margins in those businesses that we can grow into when we're not in an invest mode.
But that really is not going to be the case I don't think in the immediate future so we're very satisfied with this.
We continue to turn on advertising and build our portfolio.
Our Hershey bars as an example is doing terrific as we've begun to expand that.
And then we have what we think is a very exciting new item introduction in China that will be later in the year that we'll talk to you more about in coming time.
But we really feel good about the profile of China.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then in terms of the pricing competition? Any step-up there or not -- you're not seeing that? No I think that -- we continue to be headed down the track of what we think is good for our brands.
You'll see different promotion activity in the trade that some brands may choose to do but I wouldn't see that as a trend necessarily from our perspective.
Your next question comes from the line of David Driscoll with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to talk a little bit about Brookside.
Very exciting brand launch and something that looks to be unique in the category.
J.P.
I was wondering if you could start off and just talk a little bit about when is the last time Hershey launched a new brand with the significant marketing budget that you're going to put behind Brookside? And then just to follow on on the line of logic on Brookside.
Can you also comment -- give us your perspective on what you would expect the incrementality of a product like this to the entire chocolate category into your franchise? David we're very excited about Brookside in the launch and we believe the investment levels that we're making are appropriate for what we believe the potential for the brand is.
So I don't necessarily have the historical perspective so I'm going to kind of put that to the side.
But we believe that the Brookside brand has enormous potential.
We're off to a good start.
We're making it broadly available in the marketplace.
We're seeing good repurchase behind the early trial that the consumer has in the U.S.
and we're going to continue to do consumer testing as broadly as possible to see where the relevance of the brand can continue to play.
But we've got a lot of runway in front of us.
We've got a lot of work to do but I would just tell you that from what we see of the early customer reaction consumer reaction offtake repurchase we're just awfully encouraged and we think this could be a very big brand.
I -- we had some discussions internally on what we think that number is.
I'm not going to share that right now because we've got a lot of execution David in front of us to make this story come true but really off to a terrific start.
Research Division</strong> If I may just follow up on this just one other way.
My impression is that given the ingredients here and how different it is from other products in the category that we should be thinking that this kind of a new product has a greater incrementality to your franchise than say other new products.
Maybe if it's brand extension on one of your other lines they might be good but they might actually take away some sales cannibalistically when you do a new product launch of that sort.
So is it a fair point to say that this is really a different type of new product versus what we might have seen over the last few years from Hershey? Yes I think that's right David.
And it's around -- if you follow it from a dark chocolate standpoint it's a big -- it has a potential to be a big dark chocolate brand by itself.
If you think of the halo effect of the good things inside and all the benefits that you get from dark chocolate within the category I think it does have a lot of incrementality to it.
And then because of the halo effect of the great things in the center with the fruits packed in and the dark chocolate antioxidant benefit it allows you to think about it more broadly than as a chocolate item only and we're certainly exploring that and trying to understand more.
So we think it has a lot of incremental potential for the company as an adjacency as well as incremental business for us within the core category where we compete.
Research Division</strong> And if you could just make one clarification on the points of distribution.
Is it correct to think that this product is more -- or it's -- the availability in the food classes of trade is really where we're going to sell this product into a lesser extent in convenience stores? Or maybe I'm just trying to get at how much representation in convenience stores will it actually have.
Well we think packaging is obviously important.
We'd like to see it in convenience.
We have convenience packaging that will be in the future of the brand.
And so right now we have a lot of work in front of us to get it across the channels in distribution where we're currently focused on.
But yes this should be a multichannel brand with packaging that makes it readily available to the consumer when they're looking for a great tasting product.
Your next question comes from the line of John Baumgartner from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> John looking at some of the measured channel lately it looks like Bliss sales are down quite a bit.
I'm not sure that more of a comparison issue there but just wondered if you can walk through your strategy in terms of trade-up anything you're seeing there.
Well as you've heard us talk about in recent times that the trade-up segment as we used to define it has largely blended into premium and mainstream.
And so I think that segment has changed a little bit.
Bliss volumes are lower than they were a few years ago and I think having to compete in more of a mainstream-type environment than they had before and so that's changing a little bit.
We continue to be very committed to the Bliss consumer and so we see the brand as continuing in our portfolio with a meaningful presence.
One of the things you're starting to see now is the premium segment is growing a little bit again and I would anticipate that to continue.
But again that also had a little bit of suppression of pricing but I think that will ultimately be back where it was.
And then I think what will be interesting to see is if there's as much delineation as there historically was around this sort of middle segment which we call trade-up and I don't know how to predict that one necessarily.
But we do see that Bliss plays an important role.
There's competitive brands which consumers also look for and so we think it gives us a position to continue to compete there.
Your next question comes from the line of David Palmer with UBS.
Research Division</strong> In recent times the state of the U.S.
and global gum category it certainly stands in contrast to the U.S.
and global chocolate category.
I'm wondering from your perspective if you're sort of writing the case study of the diverging fates of these 2 categories? What factors would you attribute to these diverging fates? And I ask partly because Hershey seems to be leaning a little bit into this weakness with some investment there.
I know you're not the leader and obviously the big buckets are cyclical factors secular factors and just the stewardship of the leaders in these categories.
Well I'm not going to try to get too deep into gum strategy.
As you know we play a modest role there.
We've said in the past that we think gum is a segment that's driven by innovation and advertising and news and we think that's why our gum has done pretty well as modest as that business is.
And so we continue to be excited about our mints business which despite the fact it's a smaller segment we continue to grow there and largely that's around innovation and advertising and it needing consumer usage occasions and also preferences I suppose around how they interact with the product.
So I think there is a big challenge for the gum segment to understand what's happening with the consumer.
And I know there's companies out there spending a lot of time against that.
But I certainly don't have the answer for other folks on some of that.
So we're going to continue to be very focused against our mint business.
And we're really excited about how it's performing.
It's great front-end item.
It's good for retailers.
And that's probably as much as I should say about the gum segment.
Research Division</strong> And when you're thinking about gum and mint it's real -- and I know that it plays more into your portfolio to be going after mints harder.
But are you even -- are you more excited about the receptivity of innovation on the mint side? Is that -- is it fair to say that the future seems brighter on that side of the 2? Yes it's certainly the case for us and there's still a large gum category out there.
It is a larger category than mint.
But this for us is a great way to play.
We think it's a global opportunity and we have what we think are some pretty exciting innovations that continue to innovate around what some of the strengths as we understand consumer insights around mints relative to gum that will continue to leverage that.
And so we feel pretty good about where we're spending our time.
These are profitable brands.
And so that segment's working really well for us.
Your next question comes from the line of Thilo Wrede with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I might have missed it in your comments but is the Brookside distribution in regular retails on your grocery stores is it already where you want it to be? Or is there still further expansion opportunity? Well there's still further expansion opportunity.
We usually look to make sure we have about 60% ACV as we start thinking about turning on advertising.
We've got advertising on now.
And we would expect Brookside to have broad-based distribution levels across all channels.
But we still have space to go to get that as deep as we wanted.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So we're not -- don't manage to find the product in some channel checks.
It's just a matter of time until you get on the shelf from those stores as well then? Yes absolutely.
And if it's not near a store near you you give us an address and we'll make sure it is.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Then the other question I had for you J.P.
Did I understand you correct that this new product that you initially talked about is targeted at China? It's not for the U.S.
market? Well it will start -- we'll actually -- on what I was referring to we'll actually use China as a lead market and then we would hope to see that as an item that's more broadly available as we believe the usage occasion is one that's globally relevant.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is that the first time that you used China as a lead market for new product introduction that you intend -- ultimately intend to go global with? Actually we've had a couple of different instances where we've had products come from our international businesses.
Brazil is certainly one where we've taken some products other places.
And we see that being relevant in China as well as we explore some different areas there.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Congratulations to everybody on their new positions.
I guess I wanted to ask just more of a broader-based question about China in particular but maybe it applies to some of the emerging markets.
Obviously as I think you stated that CAGNY Mars has 40% to 50% share in China.
Mondelez is on record is spending a lot of money.
I think Ferrero and Lindt and others have been spending aggressively.
You're spending aggressively now.
I mean why -- is that the reason why you're a little bit more cautious on margin outlook in emerging markets? And how should we think about one player that's got the vast majority of the market or a big chunk of the market and everybody else spending aggressively to get their fair share? I mean how does this all play out in terms of margins? I mean the sales are great as you're doing a good job.
But ultimately what kind of profit can you really get out of these markets if you're spending aggressively behind it? Yes I think Eric the way that we think about it is that unless you're talking about China in particular as you referenced if you look at the history over the last 10 years certainly the last 5 years and you look at the acceleration of market growth we believe that just from a category standpoint in market the story is still very much about market growth.
Now you'll obviously -- you have Mars who has the first-mover advantage very nice business there and a leadership share.
At the same time that share is representative of a market which has doubled in the last 5 years anyway and will continue to grow over time at an impressive rate.
So I think part of the work to be done here is really around category growth bringing the consumer into the category and then making sure we're participating in that category.
So where we're really I'll call it thoughtful and balanced is is that in our model where we do have gross margins that are acceptable today and yet we're in an investment mode we have the ability to balance that as we go forward.
So as we've talked about turning on advertising in focus markets we're very satisfied with the response we get from that brand from those -- from Kisses as an example.
But we don't have a broad enough portfolio yet to be satisfied with our overall returns there.
And so as we continue to balance investing in our sales organization investing in our brand development and then not expanding at a rate that we'd get out over our skis we think it's a very good way for the company to participate in the China market.
So we're not necessarily saying "We're going to go be #1 by a specific date." That could be a really costly and foolish thing for us to do.
We want each of these markets to be successful for us.
We want them to be rewarding for our shareholders and therefore we have a pretty planned approach.
And we don't want to get out of balance with what is a very precious North American business.
And so our approach I think frankly is very advantaged and at the same time maybe not the same choice that everybody would have because they may have legacy businesses that don't allow them to look at this in the same way that we do.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on a more shorter term -- just on a shorter term Bert I guess you kind of sounded like there was a fair amount of delay in spending on some of this international SG&amp;A in part U.S.
as well.
The tax rate is higher.
You have a very tough comp in the second quarter.
And as you noted it's typically seasonally a small quarter so you don't have as much leverage.
I mean -- or did you give -- I got cut off but did you give any kind of guidance on second quarter earnings? I mean is it a low-single-digit EPS kind of growth rate? Or what are we talking here? Yes we don't -- we haven't given quarterly guidance and not moving towards that.
But I think you captured all of the data points that we try to provide.
And so while we do expect earnings growth in the second quarter it will -- it won't be comparable to what we're expecting in the other quarters.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a general question.
The CMG category as a whole has seen very strong sales trends and obviously you gained an impressive amount of market share in that context.
If you look more broadly at what you'd consider the snacking category overall can you give us a sense of how you think about both the CMG category and your own market share performance in that bigger snacking picture? And I guess if you were to assess any adjacencies you might have what other snack categories do you view as your strongest competition for share of impulse purchases? Well I think -- the general comment I would make is that CMG has held up very well within the overall snacking universe.
So for whatever interaction there is across any of those brands we've certainly continued to have -- category performance is good and that we've continued to do well obviously within the category.
I think the big piece of that really is around the fact that we continue to offer an affordable indulgence.
The category has benefited from the amount of advertising and attention from all manufacturers that it's gotten.
The innovation has been I would call it stickier in that it has been productive.
And so that's had a nice effect on a go-forward basis.
So I continue to be very optimistic about the category.
Certainly we feel good that the first quarter has given us the evidence that the category is going to perform well.
We've said that we're interested in adjacencies.
Those adjacencies would certainly be close in for us.
Most likely you wouldn't see us going real far field in the things that we might not feel as comfortable with as the businesses that we're in and things that are close to that.
But we think as we talked about Brookside that we think Brookside has a very nice healthy halo advantage that could expand into adjacencies.
And also the single serve element of our business in singles and standard bars and other items that are on-the-go nutrition are things that we're interested in as well.
So I think overall snacking continues to look very positive to us and we're going to participate in that overall segment.
Our next question comes from the line of Rob Dickerson with Consumer Edge.
LLC</strong> Just one quick easy question from another follow-up.
So I know obviously there are a lot of questions on the international part of the business.
I think at CAGNY you actually -- you reconfirmed the net sales target for '17.
But it looked like you've brought the profitability down but I guess it was originally low mid-teens to low double digit.
So I'm just curious I guess one is the sales target is still there for '17.
It would seem like the profit target has come down.
And then two just very -- excuse me very simplistically when should we expect the international sales to be broken out I mean just in terms of materiality? Yes let me try to put some context around that.
A couple of things that we've done in terms of targets right? One is we put an aspirational target of $10 billion out there which we certainly have a lot of energy against.
The other thing that we've talked about is that our organic business gets us to something south of that and then we're hopeful that we can have some value-creating M&amp;A that gets us actually to the $10 billion.
So we haven't given a very very specific target around what that organic is.
All we've really said is that it doesn't get us all the way to the $10 billion.
In terms of our investment pace at CAGNY we're pretty transparent about bringing that down slightly because we think it gives us the ability to invest at a faster pace and actually move that organic target up closer to the $10 billion.
So there is a little bit of alignment between the 2.
Our view is based on where we think that the market will provide the best return for top line growth and a path to profitability.
So China we've talked a lot about and J.P.
has given some context around that today.
It's in investment mode.
Other markets like Mexico where we have profitability we really just want to take that to a greater level.
And so our ability to be able to continue to have fast-paced top line growth in these markets and invest behind those so long as we're getting that type of growth is how we think about the business.
And we can ebb and flow that investment for whatever reason we don't think we're getting the types of returns in terms of business growth and market share that we anticipate.
LLC</strong> Okay perfect.
And then just kind of a follow-up on some of the discussion around retail segue versus reported.
I thought you'd said earlier and maybe I'm mistaken but I thought you said that you still saw a little bit of pricing in Q1.
You said it's a year-over-year effect from Valentine's Day.
Was that right? And then if you have -- that's the case pricing was up 50 bps in Q1.
It's like should we be expecting I guess to see kind of a similar rate of pricing growth throughout the year or more or less? Or how do you think about that? No you shouldn't.
Our reference to pricing and granted I may have confused folks by throwing Easter in there which wasn't relevant Valentine was the last season that we actually got pricing on.
Most of that for us ships in the fourth quarter.
So you would've seen most of that pricing there.
But it scans at the retail level in the first quarter so we were trying to explain the difference between our 5.5% growth and about 3 points higher in retail.
We did get a little bit of pricing because some Valentine obviously does.
And we also had some promoting -- promoted items last year when we had the early in the year launches from particularly our Crunch 'n Chew product around Jolly Rancher.
So there was a bit less promotion as our product launches were not effective January 1 like they were last year.
We actually launched those products late December so you should not expect to see pricing at least based on today's plan going forward.
We're talking about is that basically a volume year although that could change.
Operator we have time for one more question.
Your final question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Bert congratulations to you and to everybody else who was promoted.
It's definitely well deserved.
I just have one question.
Just you -- just trying to square a couple of numbers related to what you said about international.
So x Canada was up 10% and then China Brazil Mexico were combined up 20%.
So I guess the export markets would've been -- were they actually down in the quarter? Is that sort of how you go from 20% to 10%? Yes we had a couple of export markets that were actually where we actually gained distribution last year.
We had new accounts primarily in Asian markets.
And so those we expected would be down a bit just based on some pipelines to last year in terms of new accounts.
And so we continue to think that for the year we're still going to be in the 15% to 20% range.
But the first quarter had a bit of anomaly from that perspective.
Research Division</strong> So that was more of a timing -- year-over-year timing thing more than anything else? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the 20% growth in China Brazil and Mexico in aggregate just how much of it is being driven by volume growth and I guess volume growth driven in part by just distribution gains and/or trial people using your product for the first time? And just if you can give some context in terms of how much pricing.
Is there any pricing in that 20%? Yes I'm not going to comment on the pricing but I would tell you that in China in particular while we had good volume growth in Kisses one of the things that we did last year was we turned the advertising on for the Hershey brands Hershey bars in the fourth quarter.
And so we did see some distribution gains.
But more than that we saw velocity gains in the existing distribution in China.
In Brazil we launched a chocolate-covered wafer product late last year.
Our capacity also increased because we've put some capacity in place.
And so you're seeing distribution gains vis--vis new product growth but most of it would be volume.
Thanks for participating in today's conference call.
Matt Miller and myself will be available for any other follow-up Q&amp;As that you have.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Phyllis and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Hershey Company's Second Quarter 2013 Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Mark Pogharian you may begin your conference.
Thank you Phyllis.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to The Hershey Company's Second Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
J.P.
Bilbrey President and CEO; Dave Tacka Senior Vice President and CFO and I will represent Hershey on this morning's call.
We also welcome those of you listening via the webcast.
Let me remind everyone listening that today's conference call may contain statements which are forward looking.
These statements are based on current expectations which are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements because of factors such as those listed in this morning's press release and in our 10-K for 2012 filed with the SEC.
If you have not seen the press release a copy is posted on our corporate website in the Investor Relations section.
Included in the press release is a consolidated balance sheet and a summary of consolidated statements of income prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Within the Notes section of the press release we have provided adjusted pro forma reconciliations of select income statement line items quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.
The company uses these non-GAAP measures as key metrics for evaluating performance internally.
These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP.
Rather the company believes the presentation of earnings excluding certain items provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations.
As a result we will discuss 2013 second quarter results excluding net pretax charges of $6.6 million or $0.02 per share diluted primarily related to the costs associated with the Project Next Century non-service-related pension expense and acquisition and integration cost.
Our discussion of any future projections will also exclude the impact of these net charges.
With that out of the way let me turn the call over to J.P.
Bilbrey.
Thanks Mark and good morning to everyone on the phone and webcast.
I'm very pleased with Hershey's second quarter results.
Net sales accelerated plus 6.7% generating adjusted earnings per share diluted of $0.72.
We have momentum in the U.S.
in key international markets where our net sales growth in retail takeaway is exceeding category growth.
In the U.S.
with the exception of gum the chocolate non-chocolate and mint segments increased at the high end of the historical category growth rate.
This is driven by the rational investments we continue to see by most major manufacturers in the form of advertising innovation and brand building initiatives.
As it relates specifically to the Hershey products Brookside and our new Kit Kat Minis are performing very well with trial and repeat ahead of our initial estimates.
The U.S.
is a growth market for the confectionary category and we would expect that to be the case going forward.
We believe retailers and consumers will continue to value the category given its impulsivity and affordable price points.
Now for some details on our overall marketplace performance.
In the second quarter and year-to-date period we essentially gained market share in every channel and segment where we compete: chocolate non-chocolate mint and gum.
Nielsen's second quarter measures do not encompass the entire Easter season in both the year ago and current periods.
Therefore the majority of my remarks today will refer to the year-to-date marketplace performance for the 24 weeks ended June 15 2013.
Total Hershey's CMG that's candy mint and gum retail takeaway for the year-to-date period through June 15 2013 in channels that account for about 90% of our U.S.
retail business was up 6.8% resulting in a market share gain of 1.4 points.
As a reminder this represents xAOC+C-store data consisting of the food drug MassX and C-store channels plus the inclusion of Walmart and partial Dollar Club and Military channels.
Year-to-date CMG category growth in the xAOC+C channels was up plus 2.1%.
However similar to 2012 and 2011 gum continues to be a drag on the total CMG performance and excluding it the category was up 3.7%.
We're very pleased with the chocolate category performance specifically year-to-date xAOC+C chocolate category growth was plus 4.0%.
Hershey's xAOC+C chocolate retail takeaway was 7.1% resulting in a gain of 1.3 points of chocolate market share.
Core brands such as Hershey's Reese's Kit Kat as well as Brookside all gained share.
Year-to-date non-chocolate candy xAOC+C category growth was plus 2.5%.
Recall NCC year ago performance was exceptionally strong due to innovation that launched in the first half of the year and a longer Easter season.
Additionally in 2013 there's more chocolate activity than there is in NCC.
Hershey's xAOC+C 2013 year-to-date non-chocolate candy retail takeaway was up plus 2.2% essentially in line with the NCC category and our forecast.
Our performance was impacted by the year-over-year timing of the significant Twizzlers promotion at a major retailer last year as well as 2013 NCC innovation which is only available in take-home pack types.
As I'll detail in a minute we have activity over the remainder of the year that will continue to drive strong results.
Looking at the FDMx channels Hershey year-to-date CMG marketplace performance was solid.
Our retail takeaway of market share was up within all 4 segments and all 3 channels.
Specifically our year-to-date FDMx retail takeaway increased plus 4.8% resulting in a market share gain of 1 full point.
In the C-store class-of-trade where the Easter impacts are minimal CMG category growth accelerated in the second quarter and was up plus 4% driven by mid-single digit percentage increases in chocolate non-chocolate and mint segments.
Similar to the last few years the chewing gum category continues to struggle and declined minus 6.4% in the C-store channel in Q2.
Total Hershey's C-store performance was strong with Q2 retail takeaway up 10.6% resulting in a market share gain of 1.9 points.
Our C-store chocolate and mint retail takeaway was particularly solid up plus 13.6% and plus 12.3% respectively.
These gains were driven by core brands that were supported by advertising in-store selling merchandising and programming.
In the U.S.
marketplace over the remainder of the year we have many exciting products promotions programs and merchandising in place across all channels.
Some of these include in-store merchandising and programming as well as high-value coupons promoting S'mores Summer Fun as well as the celebration of National S'mores day on August 10.
A promotion with pop band Gym Class Heroes will rerecord 5 iconic summer songs downloadable for consumers of Twizzlers and Jolly Rancher.
The continued new product rollout in support of Kit Kat Minis in a stand-up pouch and king size offering.
Our Reese's promotional tie-in with NCAA college football and strong plans for successful Halloween and holiday seasons.
Brookside is tracking well and there is full year launch support including TV advertising FSIs and sampling.
Focused in-store execution by our U.S.
sales force in the first half of the year enabled us to reach our distribution targets although merchandising and programming are slightly below plan as we manage inventory to ensure product presence in all targeted stores.
Importantly repeat purchases are tracking ahead of our plan.
Brookside has been a benefit from a financial marketplace perspective.
It's accretive to earnings exceeding our acquisition model and has contributed about 1/4 of Hershey's year-to-date CMG market share growth of 1.4 points.
We continue to anticipate that Brookside will be about 1 point of total company sales growth in 2013.
Additionally work is underway to determine opportunities outside the U.S.
and Canada.
Grounded in consumer insights validation work has begun in select geographies to determine which countries offer the greatest payback and the timeline for entering these markets.
Outside of the U.S.
our international business was relatively in line with our forecast.
China Mexico and Brazil were standouts with net sales up solid double digits on a percentage basis versus last year.
The chocolate category in China continues to grow and is up plus 11% year-to-date.
The category is developing nicely with instant consumable and take-home pack types accelerating and outpacing gifting.
Hershey retail takeaway is tracking as expected and similar to the last couple of years our chocolate business should grow at least 4 to 5x greater than the category growth.
For Nielsen our national share has increased and is just above 7%.
We have merchandising programming and innovation throughout the year and believe we're well positioned to build on our momentum.
Hershey's Kisses Deluxe and Hershey's Drops are scheduled to launch in Q4 and earlier this month.
We began a soft roll out of our new Lancaster brand in China.
Recall in May we announced the launch of Lancaster-branded milk candies.
The milk category is about 1/4 of the total NCC market in China roughly $1.2 billion.
The premium segment within the milk category is growing 20% to 25%.
We believe Lancaster will be successful as it features a unique slow roasting process that requires high-quality milk and slow cooking resulting in a distinct rich creamy flavor.
In Mexico we continue to see strong growth in the Hershey's and Kisses franchises.
In the modern trade our year-to-date chocolate retail takeaway was almost double the category rate resulting in a market share gain of 1.2 points.
The Hershey's brand continues to perform well and Kisses had a standout quarter driven by solid Mother's Day gifting.
Consumer testing and validation on Reese's and Jolly Rancher is progressing as planned and should be a future enabler as we track towards our 2017 goals.
In Brazil Hershey bars and tablets are ahead of plan and Hershey's Mice is on track versus our targets.
Category growth and Hershey takeaway is up low double digits year-to-date.
We have plans in place that give us confidence that our momentum will continue over the remainder of the year.
And in Canada we continue to build on our momentum as our CMG market share increased 0.4 points for the year-to-date period.
Our Chocolate business gained plus 0.2 points driven by Hershey's.
Our sweet and refreshments market share increased 0.8 points driven by Jolly Rancher.
This brand has tripled the its household penetration over the past 3 years due to innovation advertising merchandising and programming.
Now to wrap up.
We're fortunate to be stewards of iconic brands that consumers love and trust.
Confectionary is an advantaged category is highly impulsive and is a destination category especially in the second half of the year.
It's expandable and profitable for the retailer and affordable for the consumer.
Our commitment to the category and our execution of both headquarters and store level has resulted in strong results positioning us to deliver another solid year.
Over the remainder of the year we have solid merchandising and programming in place to drive core brands and new products in both U.S.
and international markets.
Halloween orders are on track and we have the right mix of seasonal-specific advertising coupons and programming support that sets the stage for another winning season.
Therefore in 2013 we expect net sales to increase about 7% including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates.
We have good visibility into our cost structure and expect to achieve adjusted gross margin expansion of 220 to 230 basis points.
This is enabling us to continue to make SM&amp;A investments across our business in both U.S.
and international markets.
As a result we anticipate 2013 adjusted earnings per share diluted growth of about 14%.
I'll now turn it over to Dave who will provide you with the financial details.
Thank you J.P.
and good morning everyone.
Hershey posted strong results again in the second quarter.
Consolidated net sales of $1.5 billion were up 6.7% versus last year.
Adjusted earnings per share diluted of $0.72 was up 9.1% versus 1 year ago.
These results were slightly better than our expectations due primarily to strong retail takeaway and gross margin gains.
J.P.
provided details related to our marketplace performance.
So I'll now focus on the review of the P&amp;L balance sheet and cash flow.
As expected second quarter net sales were driven by volume increases a 6.6% benefit including 1 point from Brookside products.
Foreign currency impact was relatively neutral with a 10th of a point benefit.
The U.S.
and Canada businesses provided about 85% of our net sales growth in the quarter.
International sales excluding Canada were up 8% and not an accelerator of sales growth in the quarter primarily as a result of the seasonality of the businesses.
Turning now to margins.
In the second quarter adjusted gross margin increased 290 basis points driven by lower commodity costs and a more profitable sales mix together with solid supply chain productivity and cost savings.
Volume gains were a bit higher than our estimates resulting in improved fixed cost absorption.
Input cost deflation of about $29 million was slightly greater than our earlier estimates.
For the year we now expect adjusted gross margin of 220 to 230 basis points which is greater than our previous estimate of 190 to 210 basis point increase.
The improvement compared to prior estimate is primarily the result of an improved sales mix and higher productivity.
There is no significant change from input cost deflation.
Adjusted EBIT increased 11.5% year-over-year and the EBIT margin of 18.3% was 80 basis points higher than the second quarter of 2012.
These increases were primarily driven by the gross margin improvements.
SM&amp;A expenses increased 14.8% versus last year as a result of increased advertising spending and higher SG&amp;A spending.
SG&amp;A spending which excludes advertising increased about 12% in the quarter relatively in line with our forecast.
For the full year we continue to expect that SG&amp;A expenses on a percentage basis will increase at a greater rate than net sales growth.
This spending which includes staffing increases to support our global growth as well as investments in market research category management and selling and marketing capabilities in both the North American and International markets will benefit the company both in the near and long-term.
From a timing perspective we expect the Q3 increase over the prior year to be around 20% and the Q4 increase to be mid-single-digits given the prior year's stepped-up spending in the fourth quarter.
Advertising expense increased about 22% in Q2 in line with our forecast.
For the year we continue to expect advertising expense to be up about 20% versus last year.
This increase continues to support our core brands as well as the Brookside rollout and innovation.
Advertising expense outside of North America is expected to increase 45% to 50% primarily targeting brand building in our focused markets.
Now let me provide a brief update on our international business.
International net sales which exclude Canada increased about 8% in the second quarter.
We continued to make progress in our focused markets which achieved combined top line growth of around 15%.
This growth was driven by strong core brand performance primarily Hershey's and Kisses and was in line with our expectations.
We remain committed to these markets and will continue to make the necessary investments to build brand equity and drive trial and repeat purchases.
We expect international sales to accelerate over the remainder of the year given new product launches core brand growth in focused markets and increasing velocities in the export markets that we entered last year.
For the full year based on current exchange rates international sales are expected to increase 15% to 20% and are tracking to achieve the $1 billion in net sales target that we have for the end of 2014.
Moving down the P&amp;L.
Second quarter interest expense of $21.1 million declined slightly versus $24.3 million last year.
In 2013 we continue to expect interest expense to be approximately $90 million to $95 million.
We continue to expect the full year adjusted tax rate to be about the same as last year.
The tax rate for the second quarter was 35.7% in line with our estimate and greater than the year-ago period of 32% which reflected the timing and settlement of various tax matters.
In the second quarter of 2013 weighted average shares outstanding on a diluted basis were approximately 227 million shares versus 229 million shares in 2012.
Let me now provide a quick recap of our year-to-date adjusted results.
Net sales for the company increased 6% in the first half.
Adjusted EBIT increased 10.2% resulting in an adjusted EBIT margin gain of 70 basis points.
Advertising increased 22% on a year-to-date basis relatively in line with the percentage increase forecasted for the full year.
Year-to-date adjusted gross margin was 47.1% versus 44.5% last year a 260 basis point gain driven by lower commodity costs supply chain productivity favorable sales mix and fixed cost absorption.
Adjusted earnings per share diluted in the first half increased 12% to $1.81 per share.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow.
Net trading capital was $25 million lower than last year's second quarter primarily because of higher accounts payable.
Accounts receivable was higher by $13 million as a result of the increased sales and the aging of accounts receivable remains extremely current.
Inventory balances were lower by $13 million.
In terms of other specific cash flow items total company capital additions including software were $65 million in Q2.
These amounts included Project Next Century capital expenditures of $4 million.
In 2013 we expect capital additions to be approximately $320 million to $330 million.
Depreciation and amortization was $50 million in the second quarter.
In 2013 we are forecasting total depreciation and amortization of about $200 million to $210 million.
Dividends paid during the quarter were $91 million.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately $102 million worth of our common shares to replace shares which were issued primarily in connection with stock option exercises.
All shares were acquired in the open market.
Cash on hand at the end of the second quarter was $568 million relatively consistent with the prior year.
The company continues to generate substantial free cash flow and has a strong balance sheet.
As stated in this morning's press release we have increased our dividend by 15.5% to a quarterly rate of $0.485 per share.
The increase will put us more in line with our targeted dividend payout rate of about 50% for the 2013 fiscal year.
The action reflects our confidence in the long-term growth potential of the business.
Now let me summarize.
Our U.S.
marketplace performance in measured and non-measured channels is tracking a bit better-than-expected.
We believe we'll maintain our momentum over the remainder of the year driven by advertising in-store merchandising and programming of core brands and new products in both the North American and International markets.
As a result we now expect 2013 sales growth of about 7% including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates.
We have good visibility into our full year cost structure and there's no material change to our input cost outlook for the year.
Given our strong first half results we are now forecasting full year adjusted gross margin expansion of 220 to 230 basis points.
Advertising will be up about 20% versus last year supporting core brands Brookside and innovation in both the U.S.
and key International markets.
For the full year we continue to expect SM&amp;A excluding advertising to increase at a rate greater than net sales as we expand global go-to-market capabilities.
Therefore we now expect full year adjusted earnings per share diluted growth of about 14% an increase from our previous estimate of 12%.
We'll now open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jonathan Feeney with Janney.
Research Division</strong> J.P.
I just have one question about the competitive landscape.
There's been a number of pretty interesting new products particularly I'm referring to Snickers and Milky Way bite-size items as well as other innovation in the category broadly.
Could you comment on what kind of interplay you're having with the category right now having told us that data what effect that kind of competitions had on the category is it growing it is it not growing it? And then more broadly if it is growing the category all these new spending and innovation where does candy stand right now relative to other sort of more ancillary competition at the front end of the stores sort of other snacking categories what interplay is happening there? Yes sure.
Jonathan I think that part of the magic of this category of course is the expandable consumption.
So the fact that we're seeing quality innovation across the category continued investment in advertising and promotion to support innovation the category has cycled pricing I think quite well.
I think all of those things are certainly good for us.
As we see the categories resiliency across total snacking we continue to feel very very good about how the category is behaving and the quality of the activity in the category.
So going forward we're quite positive.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask a couple of questions around the international business.
So I guess 2 things.
One if you look at the results with the focused markets up 15 but total international sales up 8 if you could just sort of bridge for us the difference between the 15 and 8.
And then second if you could just comment on in the focused markets how much of the revenue growth is volume versus pricing? So are there any other price increases that you're taking in those markets? Yes and I'll start with the second part of your question.
So as most of these -- a lot of our growth there is really around expanding items.
So price doesn't play the same kind of additive effect it might in another markets because you're introducing these new brands at a price point people are seeing for the first time.
So it really is about gaining distribution volume and then of course getting sales against those businesses.
In Q2 we saw a little bit lumpier business around between our export businesses and our focus markets.
And in our focus markets where we're advertising and putting a lot of effort we felt terrific about our progress there.
You heard my comment on China so you can kind of do the math on your own if the category is growing at 11% and we're growing at 4 to 5x the category.
That's a pretty strong number and -- so in those markets we continue to feel quite good about the progress.
Your next question comes from the line of Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions on 2 different topics.
Convenience stores have obviously been quite an important feature over the last several years.
Could you just remind us of what the current convenience store share is in the U.S.
versus the non-c-store share? And how much more room for expansion is there in that sector? And is that still significantly more profitable than the regular grocery channel? So I'll start with just saying that -- because of the product mix in the C-store channel we -- with it being into consumables the profitability of that is very important to us.
So from that standpoint C-store is really good.
On the chocolate business in C-stores we have over a 50 share of the category.
So our brands are quite strong there and we continue to see good performance across the C-store channel.
So in 2Q where you don't have the influence of seasonality and so forth our share was up across total CMG about 10.6%.
Chocolate was up about 13.6%.
So that segment for us continues to perform well.
And the biggest observation I would just tell you about the C-store that whenever I meet with the operators is that the total mix of their store continues to evolve as they increase the selection they have and that's been I think a positive thing to keep people coming into the stores.
And so in our category we remain on the menu of people that come into the store despite the fact that they are increasing their selection.
So I think again it just shows the resiliency of the category.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I have a quick follow-up.
Where are you tracking at the moment in terms of new products as a percent of sales? And are you at your long-term goal at this point? Or do you expect it to go higher over time? Well Alexia we've been very pretty fortunate here.
As we said we want innovation to be about 1 point of our total growth on an ongoing basis.
And as we were talking here we think Brookside is an example by itself will be about 1 point.
So innovation has been important to our overall growth over the last several years.
And while you may see us do different things our real focus is on trying to be very very consumer-centric do fewer bigger better innovation initiatives that will be sustainable.
So again I want to innovate -- I want to emphasize it's not how many things we do as much as it is how successful are the things that we do.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I have just 2 quick ones for you.
I want to be clear on kind of the phasing of the gross margin for the year.
You've had a great performance year-to-date.
Your full year guidance assumes it comes down a little bit in the second half of the year but that is the pace.
I'm just curious anything we should be thinking about in relation to that the way the cost inflation phases or anything you could add to that? Okay.
Sure Chris.
The thing to think about there is as we said earlier our productivity particularly the savings around some of the last of the next century savings was a bit phased earlier in the year.
And so we had that and we'd been expecting that it would be a little bit lower in the back half of the year and we still expect that.
The overall increase is really a function of some of the sales mix improvements that we've seen and we are getting a bit more productivity.
From an input cost standpoint as we've said we have good visibility of our input costs and really don't expect that to be changing from what we were expecting in the back part of the year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I can have just one quick follow-up and then just in relation to Brookside as you've launched that product now across the country is the -- I'm just curious about kind of the way that the growth is occurring or the penetration is occurring by channel.
So I'm just curious at the C-store performance versus say the grocery mass performance for that brand.
Well during the introductory period we haven't focused yet on C-store.
You may find it in a C-store but it hasn't been a big focus for us yet.
It certainly will be but we've seen great response to the product across channels.
As you know in the early life of that brand it was more in club stores.
It had some penetration at grocery but our distribution capability has now made the brand broadly available.
One of the things that we talked to you about earlier is is that we doubled our capacity but you have to remember that capacity doesn't come online on the first day.
So some of the I'll call it pacing of depth of merchandising that we had anticipated we've had to balance and pace a little bit differently just because the repeat has been very good.
And then while we don't have a full set of data yet given just the timeline of the product very importantly for all the marketers is the repeat of repeaters.
And I know it always sounds a little bit funny to say that but repeat of repeaters is really exceeding our expectation and we feel quite good about that as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> You talked about getting to the upper end of the 5% to 7% top line target for this year and you've said that Brookside will continue to be at about a 1% contributor.
So in terms of the base business is it that the category overall has accelerated beyond what you had thought originally? Or is it more a matter of just the share gains you've been taking and expect to take for the balance of the year are greater than you'd forecast? And then I just have a follow-up.
Sure.
Andrew I think it's actually both.
I think the category continues to perform well because broadly manufacturers are investing in the category in a very positive way.
And as you said earlier advertising innovation et cetera seems to be working well for everybody.
So we would continue to believe that the potential for quality results around good growth for both the retail and ourselves.
We're quite optimistic for that.
Research Division</strong> And then it's way early obviously to start talking about '14 with any kind of specificity but just from an input cost standpoint would it be fair to say that on certain key inputs that you do typically have the ability to have more visibility around for a longer period of time that you're starting to get a bit of visibility at least around where things might shake out from a cost standpoint in '14 at this stage? Andrew as we've said our strategy is basically we can -- where we can we'll take coverage anywhere from 3 to 24 months.
And so certainly we are working through our normal process.
We're reviewing the markets and beginning to lay in to establish our cost visibility for 2014.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk just a bit more about the scope of the opportunity for the Lancaster product in China? I know it's very early days so there's limited amount that can be said but can you give us a sense of what level of distribution relative to the existing products that are in the market you'd expect to be reaching by year end or within sort of an 18-month time period? Yes.
So as you know we're continuing to grow our distribution capabilities all the time in China.
We estimate today that the milk candy segment in China is about $1.2 billion.
Today we'll target largely the modern trade with the Lancaster product but we also believe it should have legs with deeper penetration and as an example you might think of chocolate.
So as we bring what we believe is a high-quality innovation to that milk candy segment it should be good for us financially as well as offer the consumer something unique versus what's available in the marketplace today.
So we think that if we get the communication right we believe we've got the taste texture profile right and it's a bit of a soft launch.
So we're expanding in a few cities first.
It's a slow build.
So I think what you'll see to part of your question is really '14 will be a much stronger push for us on that product.
So it will be somewhat of a slow build early on.
We hope to learn with that but so far from what we've done and this is a product by the way remember we now have an R&amp;D facility in China and when the China R&amp;D folks were here in the U.S.
integrating into our R&amp;D center here that product was developed here but it's really got developed by our China team.
So we think this is -- this one has a lot of potential for us.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And just very quick follow-up with respect to the soft launch I guess does that imply that you're going to wait a while before doing any sort of broad-based awareness building advertising? Well I think once we feel is that we have the right level of distribution in those cities where we have the brand available we would probably look at advertising.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess 2 quick ones.
One when you talk about the export markets being down I realize it's probably pretty small but is that a function of the India business and the anniversary of that JV not working out or...
No.
Eric it really has to do with what we would call unstructured versus structured markets.
So exports in the structured markets is where we would be planting a flag call it where we would anticipate expanding a business in the future and unstructured is really more where our brands are available because there's distributors or people who have kind of pull on that.
And it really was more around those unstructured markets where there were just some things that didn't repeat themselves that were in the base.
So if you look at our total export business or if you look at that total international business sorry probably about 1/3 of that is the export piece and then that's split again one more time between structured and unstructured.
And so again I would just come back to the way I looked at it was the real focus markets that we had we felt very good about the results we got.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just kind of a bigger picture longer-term question Mondelez's CFO at our conference in June pretty much kind of like his statement and maybe you read it in our report was regarding emerging market investments and spending or M&amp;A what have you his quote was "The time is now and the window is closing." How do you -- like how do you think about that within the context of competition increasing in those markets for either local assets or share gains and I think the company's obviously done far better than it's ever done in getting into the international marketplace.
So for you is it -- this is just absolutely critical and even if others do some irrational stuff around share you just -- you have to answer? I mean how do you -- how do we think about comments like that? Yes.
Eric I really think about the quality of the activities we have as being important.
So as we look at assets it really has to be the right assets versus just racing to have something.
And we've really learned over time that if we don't execute against our basic business model that we're succeeding behind in each of these markets we just don't do that well and you don't have a sustainable position.
So I actually believe that for us it's so important that we continue to respect the fact we've got this very very precious North American business which is a real engine for us.
We don't want to get out of balance or ahead of ourselves in a way that we can't recover.
And so just as you look at our approach in China while I always have urgency to go faster I don't ever go faster than I think we can execute against our model.
And because for us that's all real net growth doing it well and having a business that when we come out of invest mode or get more into a going-type operation we can make money.
So I'm far more interested in the quality of our expansion than I am the quantity of the expansion.
And I'll just take advantage of this time to remind us that there's probably some legacy businesses that we felt pretty good about not participating in around the world.
So for us I think you'll continue to see a real focus on trying to get it right.
We've got a lot of work in front of us.
We think we're in the right markets.
And when we get those right or we think there's opportunity we'll expand but we'll do it in a way that we can continue to deliver over time quality financial results.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Moskow with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I want to know on Brookside one of the surprising things for me is that it's a product that no one else seems to be copying right now.
I don't see it in any other brand names and it's really good dark chocolate over some pretty sharp flavors of fruit.
And I wanted to know how big of a market do you think you're really targeting here in terms of consumers? Like if Hershey chocolate targets just about everyone it seems -- this seems to be a smaller subset of that market because the flavors are pretty sharp and to be fair it creates some mouth fatigue some of the flavors create some mouth fatigue because they are sharp and I want to know do you think of it is as a niche category or do you think of it as a really broad category in terms of when you do your consumer work? Yes we actually think of it as a fairly broad appealing brand both geographically as well as within the demand landscape.
So you have a couple of things going for this brand.
You have the hand-to-mouth occasion.
You have the halo effect of the anti-oxidant value of dark chocolate and then the super fruit packed in the centers that consumers -- that resonates with consumers.
So we think it's in a unique position across the landscape and we also have a point of view that the positioning in concept could be broad.
And so we always are asking ourselves where could you go with this? Now that's definitely out in front of us.
We have to succeed with the base proposition and define with the consumers what Brookside stands for but we internally are quite encouraged by what we think is possible with this brand with all the consumer research that we've done.
So that's how we think about it.
Research Division</strong> So you haven't heard any consumers coming back to you saying some of the flavors are sharp and as a result you can't pop into your mouth on an ongoing basis.
It's not an issue for people? Well the good news is is that so far it appears like people are -- to use your words popping it in their mouth pretty broadly and so that's what we would hope would continue to happen.
As we look -- but more seriously as we look at our likes and dislikes in consumer complaints and things like that it's simply not something we've seen so far but -- and hopefully we don't and we think over time there's the possibility to expand across other types of flavors and so forth.
And we have a new initiative that will be coming up that you'll see in 2014 that begins to look at different types of centers and things around that same brand concept.
So good heads up.
We obviously have all of our antenna up -- but so far that hasn't been an issue.
Your next question comes from the line of David Driscoll with Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to ask a little bit more about the strength in the U.S.
portfolio.
Maybe there's kind of 2 questions wrapped up here into this question on the U.S.
second quarter results.
Our measured channel data was certainly indicating I think something of a little bit stronger than what you reported.
And I think this is just going to be the difference between shipments and retail sell-through but if you could make some comments on that that would be important.
And then related to this overall strength in the U.S.
frankly we've seen something in our data that I just haven't seen in a long time with GOODBAR HEATH SYMPHONY and other brands that are kind of down the list of the big guys performing extremely well.
Can you talk about execution and sustainability? Yes so first of all I think a couple of the comments you've made are probably directionally correct.
We're seeing that our U.S.
business contributed about 80% of the total net sales growth in the quarter.
And what was very encouraging about that is the core brands performed very very well in addition to what was occurring on our innovation.
So really we were hitting across all cylinders.
If you recall Dave we had talked about how we've been rotating advertising support across some of those portfolio brands that we have that I think in years past just because our overall approach we weren't able to get much attention.
And those brands they typically have limited numbers of SKUs.
They're really nice sized businesses and they've responded very very well to advertising.
So I think our approach about rotating advertising across those brands giving them some attention is really what you're seeing that's causing some of that nice performance.
And then again we've continued to invest in our selling capabilities and we've been very focused against having the common distribution I'll call it across more SKUs across smaller retail outlets versus maybe sometimes seeing a mix of that distribution so -- that you'd see a more focused effort against what's in the store and then how we activate it is more broad than had been historically and that's part of what's helping drive our business.
Research Division</strong> It sounds like top-notch execution.
One final question -- go ahead I'm sorry.
I was just going to address your question with respect to the retail movement versus our factory sales.
And you're right there's a timing difference between that but some of the retail movement that you're seeing is also part of the -- what we're seeing that caused us to raise our sales guidance.
Research Division</strong> Very clear.
Final question for me.
J.P.
did you say that Brookside was temporarily capacity constrained? I think you were saying that by -- the comment about the phasing of when capacity comes on and how amazing the repeat rates have been.
But was the conclusion that may be for a very short period of time here it's been a little bit capacity-constrained but that goes away going forward? Well so far David we've been able to make it broadly available but we've had to be very conscious about doing that.
So we could at this point in time be merchandising the brand more aggressively than we currently are so that we can make the brand broadly available and our capacity ensures that people can begin activating at a greater rate than they are today.
We haven't been creating out of stocks as the brand has been available but we've just been measured to make sure that everybody that wants it can get it and then we do believe as we go further throughout the year our capacity catches up.
And obviously we would love nothing more than to be creating even additional capacity if that's what's required.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First on your international growth it remains really robust.
Now you've talked about M&amp;A as an enabler of expansion in the past.
Given your organic success is it causing you to revisit the prioritization of M&amp;A? I don't think so.
We really look for opportunities to build capabilities and the capabilities would be around distribution manufacturing and if appropriate certainly brands.
So it's really a parallel effort for us.
And kind of to the other question around raise the assets we think what's really important is regardless of any assets we would look at having the ability to execute our model to build awareness and build brands is really what we believe is the right way to succeed.
So I hope that we'll continue to be able to assess things we think are good for our company as we look at different opportunities and at the same time we're going to make the right investments around growing our business organically.
Research Division</strong> Back to the U.S.
real quick.
I just talked with a few people in the industry recently who've expressed some concern about the impact of front-of-pack labeling and what it may mean to the growth trajectory.
What have you learned from other markets where this has been implemented for a number of years? Have you seen an impact on growth rates? Do you think it could impact the growth rate for the category of your business as you roll this out? Yes.
As we've looked at the data on front-of-pack labeling there does not seem to be a negative effect because there's front-of-pack labeling.
And conversely you could probably say the same thing.
As a company we're not against what I would describe a right to know what is in the food of the consumers.
It's a fairly logical question.
How you execute against that and how you remain contemporary with questions consumers may have is what I think will be important over time.
GMA is certainly looking at this.
Our specific industry is looking at this.
And as you get into the smaller pack types you really have to ask yourself how meaningful or how much clutter can be added to the front-of-the-pack versus branding.
So we're a branding-driven company.
We wouldn't want to see things that de-track from branding but frankly I don't think the initiatives that we've seen today really do that.
But what we have to be careful of is is the intent of these things really driven at creating clarity in decision-making for consumers or are there other types of things that play in and so we're supportive of the efforts that GMA has put forth so far.
At the same time it's my personal opinion that there are probably more elegant solutions of how we create call it a portal or a place for consumers to go to to better understand food with facts that are supported by generally accepted science so that they get the right information and can make the best decisions.
Your next question comes from the line of John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Thinking about the alliance with Ferrero here any updates there in terms of activities or progress on that front? Well the project that we've talked about is is that we have this joint distribution project in Canada.
It's really driven by a pre-competitive type of agreement where we can create efficiencies around the supply chain.
And at this point in time that's really what we've worked on there.
And as you see around the world there are different alliances and things that manufacturers look at that are all pre-competitive that may make sense be it packaging purchasing and other types of things.
And so we're very open-minded to those things on a going basis.
Your final question comes from the line of Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Really quick I know everyone wants to jump onto a different call here.
You said the chocolate category in China if I heard you correctly is up 11% year-to-date.
Is that a slowdown in any way? I thought last year maybe it was up closer to 15% but I just wanted to make sure of that data.
Ken I don't have the exact number there.
I'm more than happy to get it to you via Mark following the call.
I think that the important thing to think about with China is is that today there's maybe 300 million or 400 million people that participate in the category versus the total country.
And so we believe brand awareness category building is still very very relevant and strong in China over time.
So if there was a short-term change I wouldn't read frankly anything into it and it certainly doesn't change in any way how we think about the potential of the market.
Thank you for joining us on today's conference call and we'll be available for any follow-up questions that you may have.
Enjoy the rest of the day.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Phyllis and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Hershey Company's Third Quarter 2013 Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Mark Pogharian you may begin your conference.
Thank you Phyllis.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to The Hershey Company's Third Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
J.P.
Bilbrey President and CEO; Dave Tacka Senior Vice President and CFO and I will represent Hershey on this morning's call.
We also welcome those of you listening via the webcast.
Let me remind everyone listening that today's conference call may contain statements which are forward looking.
These statements are based on our current expectations which are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements because of factors such as those listed in this morning's press release and in our 10-K for 2012 filed with the SEC.
If you have not seen the press release a copy is posted on our corporate website in the Investor Relations section.
Included in the press release is a consolidated balance sheet and a summary of consolidated statements of income prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Within the Notes section of the press release we have provided adjusted pro forma reconciliations of select income statement line items quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.
The company uses these non-GAAP measures as key metrics for evaluating performance internally.
These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP.
Rather the company believes the presentation of earnings excluding certain items provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations.
As a result we will discuss 2013 third quarter results excluding net pretax charges of $5.9 million or $0.01 per share diluted which were related to costs associated with the Project Next Century program non-service-related pension expense and acquisition and integration cost.
Our discussion of any future projections will also exclude the impact of these net charges.
With that out of the way I'll turn the call over to J.P.
Bilbrey.
Thanks Mark.
I want to thank all of you on the phone and webcast for joining us today.
Hershey had another good quarter with organic net sales of 6.6% driven by core brand and new product volume growth resulting in adjusted earnings per share diluted of $1.04.
And I'm pleased with our marketplace results as we gained market share in every major channel within the segments of chocolate mint and gum in the third quarter and year-to-date period.
Specifically Hershey's CMG that's candy mint and gum xAOC+C-store retail takeaway for the 12 weeks ending October 5 2013 in channels that account for about 90% of our U.S.
retail business was up 5% resulting in a 0.7 point market share gain.
Year-to-date Hershey U.S.
retail takeaway and market share is up 6.7% and 1.2 points respectively.
Third quarter CMG category growth in the xAOC+C channels was up plus 2.5%.
However similar to the last few years gum continues to be a drag on total CMG performance and excluding it the category was up 3.9%.
Hershey's Q3 xAOC+C chocolate retail takeaway was plus 5.2% resulting in a gain of 0.5 points of chocolate market share.
Core brands such as Kit Kat and Reese's as well as Brookside all gained share.
Third quarter non-chocolate candy or NCC xAOC+C category growth was plus 3.5%.
Hershey NCC new products in 2013 consisted of Twizzlers Bites and Jolly Rancher Bites in take-home pack types only.
As a result we did not keep up with category growth.
Additionally we're also lapping very successful year-ago NCC innovations and promotions hence Hershey's NCC retail takeaway in Q3 was up less than 1%.
This resulted in a market share loss of 0.5 points.
As some CPG companies have noted Q3 FDMx traffic was mixed.
However Hershey's Q3 FDMx CMG growth was 3.4% resulting in a market share gain of 0.4 points.
Here our results were driven by the food class-of-trade which generated solid CMG retail takeaway of 5.1%.
As it relates to Halloween orders merchandising and programming we're executing on the plans agreed upon with our retail partners.
Sell-through is on track and we believe we have the right mix of seasonal-specific advertising coupons and programming support that sets the stage for another winning season.
We will not have a complete read on sell-through for another couple of weeks but our preliminary analysis indicates that our Halloween market share in xAOC is projected to increase for the sixth consecutive year and that will build on our 38 share of this important season.
In the C-store class-of-trade where there isn't a big seasonal sales impact Hershey performance was strong with Q3 retail takeaway up 5.7% resulting in a market share gain of 0.7 points.
Our C-store chocolate and mint retail takeaway was particularly solid up 7.9% and 5% respectively.
These gains were driven by core brands that were supported by advertising in-store selling merchandising and programming.
In the U.S.
marketplace over the remainder of the year we have many exciting products promotions programs and merchandising in place across all channels including things like the continuation of the Kit Kat Android K promotion where consumers can win tablet computers Kit Kat Minis and other prices.
There's a Reese's NCAA Football promotion featuring a game day tailgate prize package and the opportunity to win season tickets.
And strong plans for successful Halloween and the holiday seasons are in place.
And we continue to feel very good about our brand building.
Full year advertising expense is expected to increase 22% to 23% in 2013 greater than our earlier outlook of about 20% increase.
This investment should benefit the category and our business in Q4 and enable us to get off to a good start next year.
Brookside continues to do well and we've begun to ship an instant consumable 3-ounce pack type initially targeting the C-store channel.
In 2014 we expect FDMx channels will also be interested in this pack type for secondary high-traffic placement.
We're still managing merchandising and programming of the 7-ounce package to ensure product presence remains in the candy aisle of all targeted stores.
Repeat purchases are on-track and we continue to anticipate that Brookside will continue at least 1 point of total company sales growth in 2013.
Looking North our business in Canada continues to build on its momentum.
Specifically our combined candy and mints market share is up 0.4 points year-to-date and about 0.15 points away from becoming the leader in Canada.
In Q3 Hershey's Reese's and Oh Henry! net sales on a local currency basis increased high mid-single-digits.
Chocolate retail takeaway remains strong with market share up 0.3 points.
Our sweets and refreshments market share increased 0.8 points driven by solid Ice Breakers and Jolly Rancher performance.
As expected outside of the U.S.
and Canada international net sales accelerated and were up 14% led by China Mexico and Brazil.
Export markets also performed well with sales trends nearly doubling in the third quarter versus the first half of the year.
Looking at some of the focus countries.
China chocolate category growth accelerated in Q3 and year-to-date the category is up about 12%  the categories developing as anticipated with instant consumable and take-home growth outpacing gifting.
Hershey's third quarter retail takeaway was solid and our year-to-date results are in line with our full year expectation of achieving chocolate growth of at least 4 to 5x greater than the category growth.
Per Nielsen our national share is just above 7% driven by the Hershey's and Kisses brands which have each gained 0.9 market share points this year.
We've carried our retail momentum into the fourth quarter and have begun shipping Hershey's Kisses Deluxe and Hershey's Drops.
Additionally the fourth quarter will also benefit from an earlier Chinese New Year giving us confidence that we'll end the year strongly.
In Mexico Hershey's Bliss and Kisses are having a solid year.
In the modern trade our Q3 and year-to-date chocolate retail takeaway was about double the category growth rate resulting in a market share gain of 1.8 points.
Our overall chocolate market share in the modern trade is about 21% and the Hershey's franchise surpassed one of our competitors to become the #1 chocolate brand in these channels.
Consumer testing and validation of Reese's primarily in the C-store channel is progressing and should be a future enabler as we track towards our 2017 goals.
Our Mexico non-chocolate candy growth has not kept pace with chocolate; however we have new product launches in Q4 as well as related marketing support that gives us the opportunity to end the year with momentum.
In Brazil Hershey bars tablets and Mice are on track.
The chocolate category in Brazil is up about 8% to 9% in 2013 and Hershey retail takeaway is about double the category growth rate resulting in a 0.3-point market share gain.
We feel good about the progress we're making in our International businesses and we like the growth outlook and prospects in the markets of China Mexico and Brazil.
Additionally in a press release earlier this month we announced that we'll be building a manufacturing facility in Malaysia to support our growing business in the Asia Pacific region.
Outside the U.S.
and Canada we expect that our International business will be up about 15% this year putting us on track to achieve about $1 billion of net sales by the end of 2014.
Now to wrap up.
I'm pleased with our performance given the macroeconomic challenges that consumers and retailers are facing.
As I stated earlier over the remainder of the year we have solid merchandising and programming in place to drive core brands and new products in both U.S.
and international markets.
The fourth quarter has gotten off to a good start.
Halloween is tracking as expected.
The holiday season is shaping up to be better than last year and we'll begin shipping some select 2014 new products.
Therefore we expect full year net sales to increase about 7% including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates.
We have good visibility into our cost structure and expect to achieve adjusted gross margin expansion of 240 to 250 basis points that should result in 2013 adjusted earnings per share diluted growth of about 14%.
As we look to 2014 and beyond we will continue to focus on U.S.
core brands and leverage Hershey's scale at retail.
Our International business continues to progress and we're optimistic about the potential to accelerate our international presence behind our disciplined approach to organic investments and acquisitions or joint ventures.
We believe the investments we've made and will continue to make have resulted in an advantaged business model enabling us to deliver predictable and sustainable results.
As a result this gives us the confidence to increase our annual long-term earnings per share diluted target to 9% to 11%.
In 2014 we'll continue to focus on core brands in both the U.S.
and key international markets.
Additionally we have a solid pipeline of new products including York Minis Hershey's spreads Lancaster Soft Crmes caramel as well as some yet to be announced products.
And therefore we expect innovation to contribute meaningfully to our net sales growth in 2014.
As a result we expect 2014 net sales growth to be within our 5% to 7% long-term target including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates.
As has been the case for many years Hershey is a gross margin-focused company.
We have solid productivity and cost savings initiatives in place and while early in the planning cycle we expect adjusted gross margin expansion next year that will drive 2014 growth and adjusted earnings per share diluted in the 9% to 11% range in line with our long-term target.
I'll now turn it over to Dave who will provide you with some additional financial details.
Thank you J.P.
and good morning everyone.
Hershey posted another quarter of solid results with consolidated net sales of $1.85 billion up 6.1% versus last year generating adjusted earnings per share-diluted of $1.04.
Net sales growth in the quarter included 6.6% organic growth offset by an unfavorable foreign currency exchange impact of 0.5%.
The organic net sales growth included growth in the U.S.
and international markets that were within our targeted ranges.
Core brand and new product volume growth totaled 6.1 points while net price realization primarily in the U.S.
was a 0.5-point benefit.
The Brookside business continues to do well contributing 0.5 points to net sales growth in the quarter.
Note that Brookside's net sales in the third quarter of last year included an additional month of sales as we completed the integration of the Brookside business into our financial and business processes.
For the year-to-date period Brookside has contributed about 1.3 points to our net sales growth.
Turning now to margins.
In the third quarter adjusted gross margin increased 300 basis points driven by lower commodity costs favorable sales mix supply chain productivity cost savings initiatives and fixed cost absorption from volume gains.
Input cost deflation of about $33 million was in line with our estimates and there's no material change to our input cost outlook over the remainder of the year.
Given year-to-date results we now expect adjusted gross margin expansion of 240 to 250 basis points which is greater than our previous estimate of 220 to 230 basis point increase.
Adjusted EBIT increased 11.8% year-over-year generating adjusted EBIT margin of 20.3% 100 basis points higher than the third quarter of 2012.
This increase is driven by the gross margin improvements.
Adjusted SM&amp;A expenses increased 15.2% versus last year as a result of increased advertising spending and higher SG&amp;A spending.
Advertising expense in the third quarter and year-to-date period increased 22% versus a year ago.
For the full year we now expect advertising expense to increase 22% to 23% versus our previous estimate of about 20%.
We continue to believe that the advertising activities are a key factor in our sales growth and in our momentum in our focused international markets.
In the third quarter adjusted SG&amp;A excluding advertising increased 12.3% versus last year less than our estimate of about a 20% increase due to timing.
In the fourth quarter we expect another meaningful increase in this line item.
These investments in non-advertising brand building and go-to-market capabilities in both the U.S.
and international markets will benefit the company in the near and long-term.
Now let me provide a brief update on our International business.
As expected net sales outside the U.S.
and Canada accelerated in the third quarter increasing 14.2% driven by gains in China Mexico Brazil and our overall export business where sales trends nearly doubled in the third quarter versus the first half of the year.
We continue to make progress in the 4 focused markets of China Mexico Brazil and India which collectively posted solid net sales growth of 22% driven primarily by Hershey's and Kisses.
We expect international sales to sequentially improve again from the third to fourth quarter given new product launches core brand growth and our solid seasonal plans.
For the full year international net sales are expected to increase about 15% continuing toward our goal of $1 billion in net sales by the end of 2014.
Moving down to P&amp;L.
Third quarter interest expense of $21.8 million declined slightly versus $24.5 million last year.
In 2013 we continue to expect interest expense to be approximately $90 million to $95 million.
The tax rate for the third quarter was 33.3% and lower than the year-ago period of 36.1% due to timing of certain discrete tax items.
We now expect the full year adjusted tax rate to be about 34.5% slightly lower than our previous estimate.
In the third quarter of 2013 weighted average shares outstanding on a diluted basis were approximately 227 million shares versus 229 million shares in 2012.
Let me now provide a quick recap of our year-to-date adjusted results.
Net sales for the company increased 6.1%.
Adjusted EBIT increased 10.8% resulted in an adjusted EBIT margin gain of 80 basis points.
Advertising increased 22% on a year-to-date basis relatively in line with the percentage now forecasted for the full year.
Year-to-date adjusted gross margin was 46.8% versus 44.0% last year a 280-basis point gain driven by lower commodity costs supply chain productivity favorable sales mix and fixed cost absorption.
Year-to-date adjusted earnings per share-diluted increased 14.4% to $2.86 per share.
Turning now to the balance sheet and cash flow.
Net trading capital was flat versus the year-ago period.
Accounts receivable was higher by $10 million as a result of increased sales and remains extremely current.
Inventory was higher by $36 million and accounts payable increased by $46 million.
In terms of other specific cash flow items total capital additions including software were $70 million in the third quarter.
In 2013 we expect capital additions to be approximately $320 million to $330 million.
As we announced earlier this month we will be building a confectionery manufacturing facility in Johor Malaysia to meet the growing consumer demand for our products in our fastest-growing region.
This will be a $250 million investment upon completion in 2015.
Included in our 2013 capital expenditure budget is about $35 million related to this project.
The majority of the investment $120 million to $140 million will occur in 2014 with the remainder in 2015.
Depreciation and amortization was $52 million in the third quarter.
In 2013 we are forecasting total depreciation and amortization of about $200 million to $210 million.
Dividends paid during the quarter were $105 million.
Cash on hand at the end of the third quarter was $701 million.
We did not acquire any stock in the third quarter related to the $250 million outstanding repurchase program.
Now to summarize.
We are pleased with our third quarter and year-to-date results.
Halloween has gotten off to a good start and over the remainder of the year we have plans and investments to drive top line growth.
Therefore we continue to expect full year net sales to increase about 7% including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates.
We have good visibility into our full year cost structure and there is no material change to our input cost outlook for 2013.
Given year-to-date results full year adjusted gross margin expansion is expected to be 240 to 250 basis points slightly greater than our previous estimate.
This increase as well as the slightly lower tax rate will offset the aforementioned increase in advertising expense and SG&amp;A spending.
As a result the company continues to anticipate 2013 adjusted EPS growth of around 14%.
As J.P.
stated we have also increased our long-term adjusted earnings per share target to 9% to 11% based on our expectation of continued strong business performance.
As we look to 2014 we have a solid pipeline of innovation in both U.S.
and international markets.
Additionally we will continue to focus on our core brands and leverage Hershey's scale at retail.
We expect 2014 net sales growth to be within our 5% to 7% long-term target.
We have solid productivity and cost savings initiatives in place and while early in the planning cycle we expect adjusted gross margin expansion next year that will drive 2014 growth in adjusted earnings per share diluted of 9% to 11% within our revised long-term target.
We will now open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just a question about the change in your -- in the long-term growth goals.
So in going from 9% to 11% and I guess maybe even more just looking at the goals you've set for between now and 2017 if I remember it right you're expecting about $40 million to $50 million annually of productivity and gross margins to be I guess a little better than 43% by then.
So could you just -- can you talk a little bit about whether that's changed at all? Are you expecting more productivity or better gross margins? Or is the higher growth goal a function of a more optimistic outlook on sales? Well I think as we go through it I think our productivity outlook is still consistent with what we've stated.
I think as we're looking forward with our sales growth and we're also looking at the leverage we would be getting in our SG&amp;A and hence making the change.
Yes.
I think -- I would just also add that we believe there'll be consistent top line growth and that will reflect itself all the way through the P&amp;L and this is more representative of where we think our results have both been and where we think they'll be.
Research Division</strong> So is it -- I guess is it fair to look at this and think that you're starting your outlook for the operating leverage you'll see in this international expansion is pacing a little better than what you were expecting when you laid those goals out about 1.5 years ago? Well I think that we're pretty optimistic about what we've been able to achieve around innovation.
As you know in our long-term growth algorithm we've always talked about it being about 1 point.
We found ourselves doing pretty consistently better than that.
We would hope that that would continue to be the case.
And then of course that innovation is across broader geographies than it has been in the past so I think those things all lead us to -- we just have confidence in raising the long-term EPS guidance.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Feeney with Janney.
Research Division</strong> As you put up good volume growth this quarter off a significantly more difficult comparison.
I'm concerned looking forward to next year.
If you could give us -- first of all maybe give us a sense how much of the volume growth this year has been Brookside.
And looking into next year like what inning do you think we are in that development.
And what factors maybe especially as you think about the second half of next year give you confidence that we can sustain a level of volume growth that's like this certainly above trend? Or maybe it's the case that it reverts back to trend.
Any comments you could give me would be helpful.
Sure.
I think the 2 things that I'd point out is Brookside is about 1.2 -- between 1.2 and 1.3 of our growth in 2013.
It was less than that in the Q3 just because of the normalizing of that versus the base versus previous year.
And then the other thing that we're very excited about is we're introducing things like Brookside 3-ounce so that will be an instant consumable item be largely focused on C-stores.
But I would anticipate that that would also be an instant consumable across other channels certainly on the front end.
We have Lancaster in China.
Kisses Deluxe is happening in China.
Hershey's Drops.
Kit Kat Minis continues to be very very well and we're on certainly the front side of that.
We have some new things in our sweets and refreshment area around Jolly Rancher Soft Chewy Bites.
That's also coming in like a cup holder pack which is a new package format for Jolly Rancher.
We've got some new executions around Twizzlers.
And then the one that I'm personally excited about is our Hershey's spreads product which we're introducing now the 13-ounce jar and that has had great reception.
It begins shipping in December so we'll get the benefit of that in Q4.
And then as that goes forward we will also have another type of instant consumable pack that will go along with that it's in 2014.
So we have a lot of things that we feel really good about.
And then there's a whole group of other 2014 products that I haven't included but I think we've got a really full plate of things that we could do and I continue to believe our consumer-centric approach to the business makes all of these things as we like to say stickier than we've been able to experience in the past.
I think we continue to get better at that than we have.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Thinking about I guess building on the previous question and just thinking about the 5 to 7 top line target for next year.
It sounds like from an innovation perspective the pipeline is still quite full and perhaps you can still get above the kind of the 1% longer-term target from innovation that you'd like.
I mean thinking about some of the other components of the top line I'm trying to get a sense of maybe what your expectation would be for category growth next year.
Would you still expect some modest share gains as you've been able to do over the last few years in some of your core categories? And I assume pricing at this stage anyway given maybe where your visibility is around inputs not likely a large contributor to next year either.
So just trying to get a sense of the sort of the other puts and takes on the top line.
Well we're not going to obviously speculate around any pricing nor does that makes its way into any of our planning.
We continue to have good core brand growth this year.
Our expectation is to continue to grow share in 2014 just as we have ahead of the category in '13.
And I think that we model that the category grows between 3% to 4% it's actually grown a bit ahead of that.
And I wouldn't be surprised that it's -- we hear in the marketplace there will be other people who are looking at innovation.
I think news in the category is good.
And I also wouldn't be surprised if we don't continue to see the overall advertising spend grow in the category.
And in an expandable consumption category that's good for everybody.
So frankly I would not only look forward to that if that happened but I wouldn't be surprised if it didn't happen.
And I think that will continue to underpin the overall health of the category.
And don't forget this is a great category for retailers.
They make good money and they have the same vested interest we do in seeing it grow.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Moskow with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the $250 million CapEx investment in Malaysia and what regions that plant is going to support.
And the reason I'm asking is I think China is right now a growing business $125 million $130 million in sales.
So is it -- is this plant going to support more than just China? It seems like it's an enormous investment for what is a pretty small business today.
And I know China's growing.
And I was out there I saw Hershey's Kisses everywhere.
But it seems like your sales growth slowed in the third quarter and I wanted to know what caused the sales growth to slow currently.
Well let me start off by addressing the capital.
We have had a manufacturing facility it's a joint venture with Lotte that is in China and that facility is manufacturing our product for China as well as for our exports throughout the Asian region.
And as we've said we expect the China business within the next few years to actually grow to our second largest business and we need additional capacity.
So as we're looking at this particular facility we're looking at having that facility support our overall growth in Asian businesses in the markets outside of China and that would free up capacity in the existing facility to be able to support our China growth.
And also for certain products for China it would also be being supported out of this facility.
So as we look at the growth expectations that we have in the region and it is China plus our overall Asian market we feel it's the appropriate facility and the appropriate location and size to serve our growth needs.
Yes.
Let me build a little bit of that from a commercial perspective.
So don't forget that what you're seeing in China today is a relatively limited portfolio.
We continue to fan that around our core brands.
And to be able to do that that China manufacturing plant which today supports exports also in the region just doesn't have the capacity to do that.
So that capacity in China really goes all to China and we would expect the plant in Malaysia to also help us some there.
So one of the things that happened in the quarter is as we looked at some of our export businesses we actually pulled some of those exports back so we didn't supply them out of that China plant and we also didn't have the ability to do that because we don't have the Malaysia plant.
So that's a bit in that number.
But I think just from a macro level if you go back and you think about this Brookside being normalized with 4 months of business in the base in the quarter of previous year that's 0.5 point.
So if you just took the current organic growth and you added that 0.5-point that's 7.1%.
We feel awfully good about that performance.
So one I think in total Asia it gives us a lot better opportunity to have the right footprint it allows us to expand in ways we're not expanding and it allows us to have a fuller portfolio in China and then continue to build in the balance of the region.
But if you put those things back together and you were to look at a 7.1% kind of number that's certainly a good performance.
Research Division</strong> But John how are your sales doing in China year-to-date? There's a talk of a slowdown in the consumer.
I just wanted to get kind of a check in on that.
We're not experiencing that.
And I think again it comes back to the fact that the category is growing really nicely in China.
Depending on who you talk about the category is growing at 12% to 15%.
We're growing at 4 to 5x that rate.
We continue to activate advertising.
We're expanding the cities that we're in.
So the size of the overall business there is still such that there's a lot of blocking and tackling that yields a very positive result and these are accessible indulgences.
So we're not going to experience the same kinds of things that industrial manufacturers are and so forth.
So people are participating in the category in an ever-growing rate.
I think on the last call I might have made this comment that you go back 5 or 6 years ago and the category was about $500 million.
Today it's probably about $1.5 billion.
And I'm talking chocolate only now.
The sugar and confectionary is significantly bigger than that.
So there's nothing about our business in China that I would characterize as slowing.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on the gross margin outlook for next year.
I know it's still early days here but can you give us any read in aggregate of whether you expect to see modest inflation overall across your input cost profile? And then just to ask specifically about cocoa.
Obviously we've seen it move up meaningfully over the past few months.
Do you view that as more of a seasonal dynamic or should we think about that as sort of a stabilized run rate for cocoa perhaps going forward? Well kind of 2 things.
As we said we're early in our planning process and so we'll fill out some of the pieces around how much gross margin expansion in that when we talk to you next quarter.
But we're far enough along that we're comfortable that we can see the growth rates and that we will be committing to for next year.
With respect to the cocoa market this is a time of the year that's just before harvest and there's a bunch of news that seems to come out every day.
I think we'll know a lot more as the cocoa comes to market over the next couple months.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones and then a longer-term question.
First one I think you talked about the export market versus the first half but everything else was regarding a year ago.
So what was the export business versus the third quarter a year ago? I don't have Eric on the top of my head that specific question but you could give Mark a call and we can get into that.
But the way to think about it is that we had some export business last year that we felt was less strategic than meeting some of our requirements in our core markets China in particular.
So it was creating some complexity for us that we felt put some other more important strategic business at risk.
And so some of that business consciously we started making some selections around.
So if you think about our export business -- and those are profitable businesses for us by the way.
But the way that we started thinking about it is really prioritizing where around the world do we believe we ultimately will plant flag and then some of the other businesses we made some choices around just to make sure that we could meet the requirements within our supply chains.
But Mark can give you a very specific answer around that.
Research Division</strong> That's fine.
And then you noted some pipeline fill in the fourth quarter.
Did you quantify that? Did I miss that like either what...
I didn't quantify it but as we thought -- as we have looked at our overall guidance of being around 7% certainly those are included.
And we have a number of things as -- I had a fairly lengthy list earlier things that are happening in the fourth quarter.
But certainly amongst the largest of that is Hershey's spreads which begins shipping late November early December.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just I think going back to Bryan's question I think it's -- for a company to change their long-term targets it's a pretty big deal and so I want to dig into it a little bit more.
First off is there any changes in your long-term assumptions around nonoperating items? So as you get international are you now assuming the tax rate can come down? Is the balance sheet maybe being used a bit more aggressively to repurchase shares? Maybe that's the first question.
Well I think as we go through and we look at it the change is primarily driven by how we see the sales and the SM&amp;A expenses and how we get leverage on that.
And then beyond that as we grow there could be some changes in the tax rate but that's not the primary driver.
Research Division</strong> And then at CAGNY I think you had actually lowered a bit your expectations for margins coming out in the international EM businesses from a mid-teens target to low double digits and this would seem to kind of reverse that.
At the same time I think as Matt pointed out that cocoa seems to be now moving up.
So I'm a little unclear as to kind of if -- unless you've reversed that I mean what -- I don't really understand what is the new driver of the higher-margin expectation.
From what we've said in the gross margin we've really not changed our gross margin view which is the kind of thing that you would be seeing with respect to the international.
I mean our view is consistent still with what you said that we would expect to be driving to a low double-digit in our international markets.
But our gross margin is not changing as we've outlined this.
Your next question comes from the line of John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> John I'm just wondering if you could speak a little bit to your opportunities in the U.S.
convenience channel.
And it's been 5 years of some pretty solid and stable market share gains there.
Where do you see the next opportunities for growth in that channel going forward? Either in terms of absolute growth or market share gains? Well I think that we over the last couple of years have gotten greater penetration in terms of just total stores covered.
I think that continues to be an opportunity for us.
And then I think as we look at SKU productivity and we look at being able to get things like Brookside into an instant consumable package Jolly Rancher getting into what would be thought of as a car cup-type pack Twizzlers which has largely been as an example a lay-down pack.
We've also got some of those what we call chews and so forth that come in a package that hasn't been available in the C-store channel historically.
So I think packaging will play a role for us in that channel that leads us optimistic.
And then I think our coverage and the way we merchandise in the channel continues to be a big opportunity for us.
And then I just think in terms of macro consumer trends we continue to -- our category continues to stay on the menu of consumers.
So even as the format of convenience changes I think for us the environment continues to be very very positive.
So I wouldn't expect any kinds of disruption which allows me to be optimistic about the other things that I just talked about.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just one follow up in terms of long-term guidance in the Malaysian facility.
So it seems like it's a pretty big investment.
And the way you're discussing the long-term margin outlook are you not looking for a cost benefit long-term in the manufacturing segment in Malaysia facility? And it seems like you'd get some leverage from that long term at least in tax benefits.
How are you thinking about that in terms of international cost? Yes.
Well we have expected in our long-term guidance that we would continue to build efficiency in the Asian market and the Malaysia plant is really just a continuation of what we're expecting to do there.
Yes.
In the long-term targets John that we talked about last year I mean we hinted to needing that facility anyway.
So I mean it was already built into that 2017 target.
Your next question comes from the line of David Driscoll of Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> Wanted just to say first off congratulations on just continuing to execute the business plan.
You guys are one of the few companies that I think just doesn't seem to have any problems.
So congratulations on that and a nice job.
My question relates to 2014 and again just Dave you've got a couple of questions here on this gross margin.
I want to ask just kind of -- I don't want to target a commodity I just want to hear your thoughts about the commodity basket in 2014.
I believe just given your commentary the short version of it is that the commodity basket for Hershey would be favorable.
Would you agree with that statement? And then can you guys talk a little bit about price and mix and your expectations in '14? I guess what I would say David is that as we're looking to 2014.
As you know we tend to take a view of the different commodity markets.
And depending on those views we will hedge from 3 to 24 months in advance.
And obviously we've continued to do that as we go forward.
And so as we look at 2014 we will be completing that and we'll give you additional guidance and insight on that when we talk to you next quarter.
Research Division</strong> And how about the comments on price and mix in 2014? I mean I think we haven't seen a pricing announcement so I think that's pretty straightforward unless I'm missing something.
And then the mix issue it seems like it should continue to be positive but I'd really like to hear your thoughts.
Yes.
I think David if you look at -- if you really dig into the data over the last several periods one of the things you would see is that some of the price -- some of the pricing information would look as though there's greater price realization and what's happening is it's all coming -- a lot of that is coming out of mix.
So the price per pound on some of the new things that we're introducing versus the average of what our line would've looked like let's say over the last couple of years we're really benefiting from that.
So even as we dig into the data we're looking at some things that we're very pleased with we have -- of what the mix impact is.
And then the other thing that just continues to hold true for us and it's really a benefit in retail but in terms of the percent products sold right off the shelf at full revenue we continue to see that trend higher rather than lower.
So you can read a couple of things into that trade promotion is more efficient and advertising is certainly working.
So those are all very positive things that are going on in the category and I think that this is one of the benefits of what I would describe as a more consumer-centric approach across the overall category certainly for our brands.
But it's making the innovation better it's filling white space it's bringing people to the category and then that is a higher order of mix impact.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> You're holding a decent amount of cash still on your balance sheet right? And I appreciate some of this is for the Malaysia plant.
But even including that cost and after the plant is built you'll probably at least by my numbers still have a lot of cash.
So I know you've talked about this a little before but can you add a little bit of color? What's your comfort level with this amount on the balance sheet versus the decision to maybe deploy a little bit either toward growth or returns to shareholders? And I think you said you didn't buy back any stock this period as well.
Well what we've said and how we consistently look at this is we think that we have good growth opportunities and so with our cash levels that's how we would intend to deploy it.
Some of that will be capital expenditures and as you noted the Malaysia plant.
In addition to that we continue to be working toward M&amp;A activity that would fit our strategies and help us support our growth and that is our primary focus at this point in time with the cash.
Next we did do a 15.5% dividend increase last quarter and we've talked about our long-term target being about a 50% payout ratio in our dividends.
And then beyond that our next level would be to be looking at some share buybacks but that's not our priority at the moment.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions still standing I guess.
Malaysia the plant you're building should we expect any tax benefits on the back of this? Yes.
As part of that -- as it's up and operating in a couple of years it will have a favorable tax impact.
Research Division</strong> Any chance you can kind of frame that up for us in terms of magnitude? Probably won't do that at the moment.
As we get closer to where we can see it we'll talk about it more.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'm going to stick on CapEx for a minute.
You -- I think you said around $320 million or $340 million next year with $35 million in Malaysia.
It was just a couple of years ago that you were talking about CapEx stepping down to $140 million to $150 million by this year.
I know you revised it at your fiscal '12 Analyst Day.
But bigger picture question what's caused the high -- the rising capital intensity of this business if Malaysia is only $35 million next year? Well actually the $35 million is for this year in 2013.
What we've said is that we -- that there's another $130 million -- or another $120 million to $140 million that will likely be in next year.
So that's just clarifying the years.
But fundamentally what's happened with the capital is that we are having additional investment in growth with the volume growth that we've had and with the international growth that we've continued to invest in that as well as we've had investments that are supporting our productivity programs and also to continue to focus on enhancing product quality.
Research Division</strong> Thanks for the clarification there.
Sorry I must have misheard.
Last question and I'll pass it on.
Competitive dynamics in North America.
We understand that Nestle's North America business is under new leadership.
Mars looks like its gotten a little more promotional the last couple of months.
Maybe it's just timing-oriented but what are you guys seeing on the ground in terms of competitive intensity? Well if I think that I go back to the comment I mentioned earlier we would have a sense that there's going to continue to be innovation in the category.
Some of that our competitors have announced some things that they are doing.
And I would also continue to believe that there'll be investments in more communication with the consumer around advertising digital et cetera.
So I think it will continue -- for me it never feels like it's not competitive.
But I would expect that the category continues to behave in a rational way and people invest in their brands.
And as I said in an expandable consumption category that's always a good thing.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zaslow with BMO Capital Markets.
Andrew Strelzik for Ken.
Following up on the last question one of your competitors is entering the peanut butter cup category and supporting it with fairly meaningful advertising.
Just wondering how you think that will impact the category if we should expect any response from you.
And if you could point to any similar events in the past and how that's played out.
Well as you might expect we'll continue to show up every day and execute the best we possibly can against the brands we have.
And this wouldn't be the first time that a product similar to what's being introduced has been introduced in the market.
But as I said before competition is a good thing.
News within the category is a good thing.
And we'll all have to show up and do the best we can.
I know that's what we're going to do.
Your final question comes from the line of Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask about your acquisition plans in Asia and how they're evolving? And does the announcement of the Malaysia plant mean it's more likely that you're thinking about going it alone in the region or you're still actively looking? Yes Alexia.
We continue to be active and looking at what we think are opportunities that give us the capabilities to accelerate the growth of our business.
Things that seem to give us either manufacturing distribution brand certainly.
All are things that we look at.
As you know while there's a number of the companies they're not all for sale but we're certainly active in thinking through and assessing what we think might be good for the Hershey Company.
The good news is that on a parallel path to that we have plans that we believe will enable us to continue to grow and we really have to be able to -- we have to have the capacity that this Malaysia plant gives us the flexibility to grow in the region and also develop new markets as well as meet the demands of our China business.
So you should just take all of these things as reflective of our optimism around our future.
Thank you for joining us for today's call.
We'll be available to take any follow-up calls you may have at the conclusion.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Bonnie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Hershey Company's Fourth Quarter 2013 Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Mark Pogharian.
You may begin sir.
Thank you Bonnie.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the Hershey Company's fourth quarter 2013 conference call.
J.P.
Bilbrey President and CEO; Dave Tacka Senior Vice President and CFO; and I will represent Hershey on this morning's call.
We welcome those of you who's listening via the webcast.
Let me remind everyone listening that today's conference call may contain statements which are forward looking.
These statements are based on current expectations which are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements because of factors such as those listed in this morning's press release and in our 10-K for 2012 filed with the SEC.
If you have not seen the press release a copy is posted on our corporate website in the Investor Relations section.
Included in the press release is a consolidated balance sheet and a summary of consolidated statements of income prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Within the Notes section of the press release we have provided adjusted or pro forma reconciliations of select income statement line items quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.
The company uses these non-GAAP measures as key metrics for evaluating performance internally.
These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP.
Rather the company believes the presentation of earnings excluding certain items provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations.
As a result we will discuss 2013 fourth quarter results excluding net pretax charges of $10.9 million or $0.04 per share diluted related to costs associated with the project Next Century non-service-related pension expense and acquisition and integration costs.
Our discussion of any future projections will also exclude the impact of these net charges.
With that out of the way let me now turn the call over to J.P.
Bilbrey.
Thanks Mark and good morning to everyone on the phone and webcast.
I'm very pleased with Hershey's fourth quarter and full year financial and marketplace results which represent a solid end to another good year.
Net sales for the full year increased 7.6%.
This was our fourth consecutive year of at least 7% sales growth which has been driven by a combination of net price realization core brand volume growth in U.S.
and international markets and innovation.
In the fourth quarter net sales increased 11.7% slightly better than our expectations driven primarily by volume.
And this is translated into solid gross margin EBIT margin and EPS growth.
In 2013 adjusted EPS diluted growth was 14.8% our fifth consecutive year of double-digit percentage increases.
The category is performing well and our business model is working.
However we're not content.
Using history as a guide we recognized that consumer needs and behavior continuously evolve.
We've been building on our proprietary IDP platform and look to leverage the vast amounts of available data related to consumer patterns around everyday events and how they tie into shopping purchasing decisions consumption et cetera.
This initial work has resulted in accelerated profitable organic sales growth and enabled Hershey to reclaim its CMG category leadership position in the U.S.
with a 31.1% share of the market.
We're also pleased with the continued progression of our international businesses outside of the U.S.
and Canada.
For the full year our international net sales increased about 16% including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates and we're on track to achieve close to $1 billion of net sales in these markets by the end of 2014.
And I'm excited about our recently announced agreement with Shanghai Golden monkey.
The strength of Shanghai Golden Monkey's confectionery portfolio manufacturing expertise and overall distribution capabilities especially within the traditional trade is an opportunity for us to leverage scale to make the iconic brands of both our companies even more powerful.
We believe the investments we're making across our businesses position us for future growth.
Furthermore the dynamics of the confectionery category impulsivity conversion rate at checkouts seasons multiple pack types and so on are an advantage for all category participants.
As has been the case for the last few years we continue to expect solid brand building investments in the form of innovation and advertising by many category participants.
As a result in 2014 we anticipate candy and mint category growth to be in the 3.5% to 4.5% range.
Although note that you'll see some lumpiness in category and Hershey performance in the March and April timeframes given the timing impact of Easter this year versus the previous year.
Now for an overview of the U.S.
candy mint and gum category.
For the full year in the xAOC+C-store channel and as a reminder this data consists of the food drug MassX and C-store channels plus the inclusion of Walmart partial dollar club and military channels; growth was solid in the chocolate non-chocolate and mint categories which increased the combined plus 3.9% well within the 3% to 4% historical growth rate.
The increase in candy and mint outpaced other snack alternatives such as salty snacks snack nuts cookies and crackers.
As has been the case for the last few years the gum category has been challenged and weighed on overall CMG that's candy mint and gum results.
Therefore including the full year decline of 5.6% for the gum category CMG growth was 2.5%.
CMG fourth quarter category growth in the xAOC+C channels was up 2.5%.
As I mentioned earlier gum continues to be a drag.
And excluding it the chocolate non-chocolate and mint categories increased a combined 3.5%.
Before I get into our segment marketplace discussion let me summarize our successful Q4 seasonal performance.
For the combined Halloween and holiday seasons Hershey retail takeaway was up 4.2%.
Importantly our seasonal sell-through was on target and we gained 0.6 share points in Halloween and 1.4 points in the holiday season.
This was our third and fourth consecutive years of Halloween and holiday market share growth.
Our key categories did well and Hershey outperformed.
Specifically Hershey CMG retail takeaway for the 12 weeks ending December 28 2013 in the xAOC+C channels that account for about 90% of our U.S.
retail business was up 5.2% resulting in a 0.8 point market share gain.
For the full year Hershey U.S.
retail takeaway and market share was up 6.3% and 1.1 points respectively.
We're proud of our U.S.
marketplace performance as we've gained the market share in every channel that we compete for the third consecutive year.
Fourth quarter chocolate candy xAOC+C category growth was up plus 4.3%.
Hershey Q4 chocolate retail takeaway was 5.3% resulting in a gain of 0.4 points of chocolate market share.
Core brands such as Reese's Kit Kat and ROLO as well as Brookside all gained share.
For the full year our chocolate retail takeaway and market share was up 6.6% and 0.9 points respectively.
Fourth quarter and full year non-chocolate candy xAOC+C category growth was plus 1.2% and 2.6% versus the year ago period.
In 2013 our innovation was primarily focused on chocolate.
Additionally throughout the year we were lacking very successful year-ago non-chocolate candy innovation and in-store programming.
As a result in 2013 we lost 0.2 points of NCC market share.
We're making solid investments here in 2014 with some innovative new products that we believe will result in non-chocolate candy gains.
More on this later.
While not as large as chocolate and NCC I'd be remiss if I didn't mention the success of our gum and mint business.
In 2013 our gum and mint retail takeaway was up 27% and 11% respectively.
As a result our gum market share increased 1 full point and we now have a 4% share of the market.
Our mint market share increased 1.2 points and our segment-leading market share is 38.9%.
Looking at key channels I'm very pleased with our business in the traditional FDMx channels where our performance has been solid.
For the 12 and 52 weeks ended December 28 our CMG retail takeaway was up 3.4% and 4.4%.
We gained 0.8 share points here for the full year driven by the food and drug classes of trade.
In the C-store channel CMG fourth quarter and full year category growth in both periods was up 3.3% and impacted by a mid-single-digit percentage decline in the gum category.
Excluding gum for the fourth quarter and full year C-store combined candy and mint retail growth was 5.8% and 5.9%.
Total Hershey's C-store performance was solid with Q4 and 2013 retail takeaway up 5.5% and 7.5% resulting in market share gains of 0.7 points and 1.3 points.
As we look to 2014 we have many exciting products promotions programs and merchandising in place across all channels including our annual Reese's NCAA basketball and football programs in-store merchandising and programming of Hershey's Smores and the launch of many new products such as Hershey's Spreads in the 13-ounce jar as well as an on-the-go pack type with graham crackers sticks Lancaster Soft Crmes Caramels York Minis the continued rollout of 3-ounce Brookside instant consumable pack type the Q4 launch of Brookside crunchy clusters Jolly Rancher and Twizzlers Bites in standup take-home pouches and our innovative instant consumable flex pack that fits in a cup holder and a yet to be announced new product that we're very excited about.
We're proud of the gains that we've made in the U.S.
so now I'll provide some color on the solid progress we've made in other markets starting with Canada.
Looking north our business in Canada had a good year on all metrics.
Net sales increased 5% versus the prior year resulting in solid gross margin and operating income improvement.
A portion of these gains were in advertising and consumer promotion that drove mid-single-digit growth in retail takeaway.
Our combined candy and mint market share was up 0.3 points for the year enabling us to become the market leader in Canada with a 16.6% share of the market.
Growth was fueled by Hershey's Brookside and Ice Breakers.
As expected outside the U.S.
and Canada net sales accelerated in the fourth quarter up 27% slightly greater than our expectations.
For the full year international sales of $807 million increased 16% including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates.
In China Brazil and Mexico we made solid progress in 2013 with net sales up a combined 25% in these markets.
In our key markets our brands are gaining distribution trial and more importantly repeat purchases.
On-shelf velocity of Kisses and Hershey's-branded products is increasing and will build on our momentum in 2014.
Additionally we'll look to accelerate the testing and launch of our other global brands Reese's Ice Breakers and Jolly Ranchers in key markets.
Therefore in 2014 based on current exchange rates we expect net sales outside the U.S.
and Canada to increase towards the top end of our 15% to 20% target which would put us close to our $1 billion goal.
By country our business in China had a solid quarter and ended the year strong.
Chocolate category growth in Q4 was up low double digits and for the year increased about 14%.
In 2013 Hershey was the fastest-growing chocolate company in China as consumers responded to Hershey's advertising and innovation such as Hershey's Drops and Kisses Deluxe.
As a result China was our best-performing international market with full year retail takeaway up about 45%.
Importantly in November we crossed a major milestone and reached the 10.2% share of the China chocolate market.
Our momentum gives us confidence that the investments we've made and will continue to make in consumer insight and route to market will benefit our business in the near and the long term.
In Mexico our chocolate business driven primarily by the Hershey's Hershey's Bites and Kisses had a solid year.
In 2013 our modern trade chocolate retail takeaway was about double the category growth rate resulting in a market share gain of 2 points.
Our overall chocolate market share in the modern trade is about 21% and we expect to build on our momentum in 2014 with an expansion of the Reese's test market that's been underway for the last 6 months primarily in the C-store channel.
Our Mexico NCC business lost 0.2 points this year.
However it sequentially improved versus last quarter driven by the launch of Jolly-Rancher-filled lollipops and take-home pack types of Pelon and Peloneta items.
In Brazil our chocolate business grew about double the category.
Market share was up 0.2 points driven by Hershey's Bars and Hershey's Mice which has quickly established an 8 share of the subsegment of chocolate-covered wafer products.
Reese's was introduced to the major customer earlier this year and has gained traction becoming a top 5 SKU at this retailer.
In 2014 we'll continue with the Reese's expansion and the testing of other global brands.
Now to wrap up.
I'm pleased with the way the confectionery category and Hershey continue to perform.
We have a solid position in the marketplace and we're responding to retail customers needs to drive overall category growth.
We have consumer-driven plans in 2014 and expect to drive top line volume growth by a combination of core brand growth and innovation.
Dave Tacka will provide further details but expected gross margin gains in 2014 should give us the financial flexibility to make SM&amp;A investments including advertising and related consumer marketing which we estimate will increase mid-to-high single digits on a percentage basis versus last year.
As a result we expect full year 2014 net sales and adjusted earnings per share diluted growth to be within the company's long-term 5% to 7% and 9% to 11% objectives.
I'll now turn it over to Dave who will provide some additional detail on our financial results.
Thank you J.P.
and good morning everyone.
Hershey posted another quarter of solid results with consolidated net sales of $1.96 billion up 11.7% versus last year generating adjusted earnings per share diluted of $0.86 per share up 16.2% versus last year.
The sales increase was slightly greater than our expectations due to a solid U.S.
holiday season and stronger-than-anticipated international growth.
Nonetheless the profile of organic net sales growth was relatively on target with North America contributing about 2/3 or 8.7 points of the growth and international about 1/3 or 3.5 points.
The impact from foreign currency exchange rates was 0.5 points unfavorable.
The Brookside business continued to do well contributing 1.2 points to overall Q4 net sales growth.
For the full year Brookside net sales increased 74% in line with our target.
In 2014 we would expect Brookside net sales growth to increase greater than the company's long-term target although not at the level achieved in 2013.
Turning to margins.
In the fourth quarter adjusted gross margin increased 80 basis points.
This improvement was lower than our estimate primarily because greater-than-expected Q4 volume required purchases of certain raw materials at higher prices and year-end LIFO and related inventory calculations resulted in slightly higher costs than our forecasts.
For the full year adjusted gross margin expanded 220 basis points a truly excellent performance.
Input cost deflation of approximately $122 million provided about 160 basis points of the improvement.
The remaining 60 basis points resulted from supply chain productivity sales mix improvements and fixed cost absorption driven by the strong sales volume gains.
In 2014 we expect a gross margin improvement around 80 or -- I'm sorry around 50 basis points driven by supply chain productivity sales mix and fixed cost absorption.
Despite volatility in the commodity markets we have good visibility into our 2014 input costs with the exception of dairy as there is not a developed future market.
We do not expect commodity cost deflation in 2014.
Adjusted EBIT in the quarter increased 15.3% versus last year generating adjusted EBIT margin of 16.3% a 50 basis point improvement.
The increase was driven by the adjusted gross margin improvement.
Adjusted SM&amp;A expenses increased 12.8% versus last year driven by increased advertising and SG&amp;A spending.
Advertising expense in the fourth quarter and full year increased 20% and 21% respectively versus the year ago periods.
We continue to believe that on-air and digital advertising activities are a key factor contributing to our U.S.
sales growth and our momentum in key international markets.
We believe that we are now approaching continuity of advertising support levels in North America.
In 2014 we expect advertising and related consumer marketing to increase mid-to-high single digits on a percentage basis versus the prior year.
In the fourth quarter adjusted SG&amp;A excluding advertising increased 10.1% versus last year in line with our estimate.
This increase reflects continued investments in knowledge-based consumer insights nonadvertising brand building and route-to-market capabilities in both the U.S.
and international markets which will benefit the company in the near and long term.
In 2014 we will continue to invest in our knowledge and capabilities.
However given our strong sales growth we expect that we'll begin to see some leverage on this line item.
Now let me provide a brief update on our international business.
As expected net sales outside the U.S.
and Canada accelerated in the fourth quarter increasing by 27.1% driven by gains in China Brazil and our export businesses.
International net sales trends sequentially improved every quarter throughout the year and we expect to carry our momentum into 2014.
Total international gross margin improved 200 basis points for the year although operating income declined versus last year given our investments in route to market brand building initiatives and full year ownership of our India business.
We remain committed to these markets and will continue to make the necessary investments to build brand equity drive trial and repeat purchases.
As J.P.
stated we expect solid international sales growth in 2014 which will put us close to our goal of $1 billion in net sales outside the U.S.
and Canada.
This estimate excludes the Shanghai Golden Monkey business which we are hopeful will close by the end of the second quarter.
Moving down to P&amp;L.
Fourth quarter interest expense of $21.9 million declined $0.8 million versus $22.7 million last year.
For the full year interest expense was $88.4 million slightly less than our estimate.
In 2014 we expect interest expense to be in the $80 million to $85 million range.
The adjusted tax rate for the fourth quarter was 34.2% greater than the year ago period resulting in a full year tax rate of 34.3% which was relatively in line with our estimate.
In 2014 we expect the adjusted tax rate again to be about 34.5%.
But note that in the first quarter we expect the tax rate to be closer to 35%.
For the fourth quarter of 2013 weighted average shares outstanding on a diluted basis were approximately 227 million shares leading to adjusted earnings per share diluted of $0.86 an increase of 16.2% versus year ago.
Our full year results were very strong.
Full year net sales increased 7.6%.
Adjusted EBIT increased 11.8% resulting in adjusted EBIT margin of 19.2% up 70 basis points versus last year.
Advertising increased 21% for the year relatively in line with our estimate.
Gross margin was 46% versus 43.8% last year a 220 basis point gain.
And adjusted earnings per share diluted increased 14.8% to $3.72.
Turning now to the balance sheet and cash flow.
Year-end net trading capital increased by $23 million.
Accounts receivable was higher by $17 million as a result of increased sales and remains extremely current.
Inventory was higher by $26 million primarily in finished goods and accounts payable increased by $20 million.
In terms of other specific cash flow items total capital additions including software were $123 million in the fourth quarter and $351 million for the full year.
This spending is about $30 million higher than our previous estimate primarily because of acceleration of spending on certain projects.
Construction has begun on the manufacturing facility we're building in Johor Malaysia and timing is on track.
In 2014 we expect total capital expenditures to be about $355 million to $375 million including capital related to the Johor project of $120 million to $130 million.
The total capital project is about a $240 million investment.
Depreciation and amortization was $50 million in the fourth quarter and $201 million for the full year of 2013 in line with our estimates.
Dividends paid during the quarter were $106 million and $394 million for the full year.
Cash on hand at the end of the fourth quarter was $1.1 billion.
We did not acquire any stock in the fourth quarter.
Let me close by providing some context on our 2014 outlook.
As J.P.
outlined we have initiatives in place that we believe will continue to drive net sales growth across our business.
We're confident in our plans and we expect 2014 net sales growth of about 5% to 7% including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates.
We expect our net sales gains to be driven by core brand volume growth and innovation in the U.S.
and international markets complemented by in-store merchandising programming and advertising.
We expect first quarter net sales growth rates to be tempered for -- versus the strong distribution gains of Brookside in the first quarter of last year.
We also expect foreign currency headwinds given recent volatility particularly for Canada and Brazil.
We have good visibility into our full year cost structure with the exception of dairy costs.
We expect our gross margin to improve around 50 basis points driven by productivity and the final project Next Century cost savings.
We also expect a favorable sales mix.
We do not expect input cost deflation in 2014.
Advertising and related-consumer marketing is expected to increase mid-to-high single digits on a percentage basis versus last year.
SG&amp;A expenses excluding advertising are expected to increase at a more modest level in 2014 as we build on the investments and go-to-market capabilities established over the last few years as well as consumer knowledge-based projects related to our insights-driven performance work.
In the first quarter we expect SG&amp;A cost increases of low double digits versus last year reflecting the new hires and initiatives brought on in the second half of 2013.
We expect full year adjusted earnings per share diluted to increase within our long-term growth rate of 9% to 11%.
Note that this outlook excludes operating results related to Shanghai Golden Monkey.
Excluding acquisition and transaction costs we expect the acquisition to be slightly accretive on an adjusted basis in 2014.
I'll now turn it back to Mark to go to Q&amp;A.
Okay.
Before we go to Q&amp;A J.P Dave and I will answer your business questions.
Note that Bert Alfonso President International is also with us and will answer any questions you may have related to Shanghai Golden Monkey.
Given that we are in regulatory review commentary here will be limited.
[Operator Instructions] Operator can you please set up the first question please? Our first question comes from Ken Goldman of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Dave can you talk about what you're seeing in the cocoa market? The near-term contract's been spiking again.
When you and I last spoke you weren't overly concerned by fundamentals.
I was just hoping for an update of your thoughts.
Well I guess -- I'm not going to comment on our views and coverage with respect to specific markets beyond what I've said about that we have good visibility into our cost structure except for dairy.
And so I'm not going to comment beyond that.
Research Division</strong> But can you maybe add some comment on what you're seeing on the fundamentals right? Do you think there's enough supply out there given demand? Well the cocoa market has been volatile and -- but arrivals at the port -- we're a little past mid-way in the harvest.
And arrivals at this point at the port have been very very strong.
And so the estimates of supply and demand have been growing more balanced as that's arrived.
So I think that's the things that you're seeing that the analysts are doing.
We have -- we're very confident that we will have solid supplies and that there's enough supply to meet manufacturing needs.
Our next question comes from Kenneth Zaslow of BMO Capital Markets.
I just want to ask you what do you -- your decision to launch a new brand? Well a lot of companies trying new -- launching of new brands they don't tend to I mean successful there is lot of costs associated.
If anybody can do it let me tell you its definitely Hershey.
But I guess my question is what weighed into the decision of trying to launch a new brand in the U.S.? What are the costs associated with it? And how do you measure the success? Well I think that -- you probably heard us talk a lot about it.
We are doing fewer what we call "fewer bigger better " and we believe we are far more consumer centric than we have been as we look at our demand landscapes and where there's opportunity.
So while obviously a market the size in U.S.
has different cost implications as some market it also has the magic elixir of volume as well.
So when we look at something like our spreads launch which is currently underway what we saw is that this a $3.4 billion category in spreads and so spreads includes peanut butter marmalades and other kinds of things and then the fastest-growing subsegment of that are really chocolate spreads.
So we look for unmet needs and one of the unmet needs not only in the fast growing category was is -- there was a primarily a breakfast occasion and as we've believe we can bring great chocolate credentials to that space we're also looking at variety and day parts that are different than what was happening.
So these can be used on apples bananas I mean it's almost endless strawberry it can be on traditional bread at breakfast occasions but it makes for a great tasting and a way to get also healthy snacking throughout the day.
So all of those kinds of things go in to that decision and what's great for us is this is really incremental.
It's not cannibalistic to what we do already.
So that's an example -- I want to just give you a hard example of how we might look at the demand landscape and then try to understand if we should participate there or not.
This is one that we are quite enthusiastic about.
The other example that's worked terrific for us is really Brookside.
Brookside is a dark chocolate it satisfies a need that really wasn't there it has a package that lends itself to portion control as well as on the go and hand-to-mouth.
So we look at all of those different things.
And if you look at our results this year our innovation has just been terrific over the last -- in fact really over the last several years.
So we talked about wanting 1 point of our growth coming in from innovation but we've done significantly better than that.
So it's really not the frequency of innovation it's really the quality of the innovation.
The same logic goes for Lancaster? Yes.
Our next question comes from Jonathan Feeney from Janney.
Research Division</strong> So I wanted to understand the Chinese market a little bit better.
You mentioned that you reached about a 10 share.
Maybe if you can give us a sense of like what the structure of that market looks like competitively? How that looks post the closing of Golden monkey? And what are some -- if you have them your realistic goals for 5 or 10 years for the Hershey Company in China? To the extent you can provide detail around that I'd appreciate it.
Yes.
Well first of all our business in China today is largely a modern trade business.
It's focused across major metropolitan areas we're in the 130 150 cities in total but the way we think about it is really how can we execute our business models so how do we build our brand product portfolio how do we build consumer awareness around that.
So if you think about concentric circles and economic density we really want to build those out.
China is such a vast place that -- really talking about being national may be the wrong way could think about it so we're quite patient what we really want to do is make sure our businesses are solid and that they're funded well and then we can build out our portfolio.
And our portfolio with China today is still young and so we have a lot of opportunity there.
And then as you'll probably hear from Bert at some point the acquisition that we made gives us the ability to have broader reach in Tier 2 and 3 type cities with a portfolio that's broad and is also different than the portfolio we have there today.
So those are all things that we look at.
And one other exciting thing about China is you see the convenience channel developing there and it's the consumer being -- its the consumable being one of our real core competencies we see that as a tremendous opportunity as well.
Research Division</strong> And J.P.
just a clarification.
The modern -- you said a modern trade can you give us a sense over that candy mint and gum market in China what piece would you estimate that the modern trade comprises presently? Like 1/2 of it? 20% of it? A ballpark would be fine.
This is Bert.
It's quite different chocolate versus non-chocolate.
And so it's a large portion we don't have the exact number I would say more than 50% in the modern trade very paced Tier 1 city-oriented and estimate to retail level to be at about $1.5 billion.
The non-chocolate which is much less concentrated in the modern trade would be about $5 billion to $6 billion.
And again it moves further down the chain in terms of as J.P.
already mentioned it is in Tier 1 cities but also you find a lot more in Tier 2 and Tier 3.
The one other thing that I would just add to that is that we believe about 300 to 400 million people participate in the chocolate category today with some frequency so that also begins to be another dimension of how to think about the size and scale versus the potential.
Our next question comes from Eric Katzman of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess my question has to do with a little bit with the fourth quarter.
I think you said the U.S.
business including the holidays shipments were up 8% or 9% or so? But I think you said your off-take was up 5% or 6%? What accounts for the difference? Yes there's a couple of things Eric that we believe is going on there as you look at the data.
So we had a very good holiday execution.
We felt good about that.
But the quad ending 12/28 is missing a full week of data.
And one of the things that we see happening is especially around some of its seasonal events is a higher percentage of volume that's going into those last couple of weeks.
So that's part of it and then if you look at the Wall Street data while I haven't been through the detail I think what you see is that you have I think we're about 8% or so with that data which goes through I think the first 2 or 3 weeks of January.
So really shows that it starts to pick up some of that.
And then the other thing that was happening that's in that -- that's in there number is that we have gotten to very low inventories.
We had a significant growth rate in the first half.
Some of our brands were growing double the rate of the category especially in the chocolate segment.
So if you're look at the chocolate segment in particular which this continue to remain really strong we saw some inventory rebuilding throughout the fourth quarter and so there could be a couple of points as you got into December that came back in terms of inventory rebuild to more normal levels.
They're still low but they're closer to the normal range of what we saw.
So I think those are the 2 biggest components.
The thing that was encouraging to me as I looked at that data really was the fact that it looks as though things are coming back nicely so whether that's an anomaly or not I don't know but we continue to feel pretty good about what we think the category growth rates going to be in '14.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I can just a quick one for David.
Is there any reason why free cash flow shouldn't be growing basically in line with earnings this year? I guess CapEx is up a little bit but maybe you can get a little working capital improvement towards the year-end? Yes I mean I think what I would say is that if you look at operating cash flow it should be growing in line with earnings and we kind of gave you some outlines around the CapEx and dividends.
Our next question comes from Robert Moskow of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Follow-up question on fourth quarter.
The gross margin was a little below expectations and I guess the advertising spend was a little below expectations also.
And regarding the gross margin is -- were you forced to buy materials on the spot markets? And is that why your costs ended up a little higher than you thought? And then also if this a LIFO kind of issue does that mean that you have LIFO layers that are -- that you can dip into in 2014 that have maybe lower ingredient cost than what we see in the spot market? I'm really testing my accounting knowledge here so I'm hoping you bail me out.
Well first of all you're right.
The reason that we -- that the gross margin was lower than what we forecasted in the fourth quarter was that -- we did have some higher commodity costs associated with the higher sales that we had in the fourth quarter and so we wound up picking up some materials at spot prices.
And in the year end accounting there's a number of calculations including LIFO and things and that it also includes things like how fixed cost go into inventory and that sort of thing and those things just came in with a little bit more expense than we had forecast.
I think the important thing on the gross margin is that the full year gross margin improvement of 220 basis points was very strong and it included solid productivity gains and sales mix improvements which are really the things that will continue to drive our gross margin improvement as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the advertising? The advertising was basically it was -- the spending was a little bit lower than we have forecast but there was nothing significant that we did that caused that.
Our next question comes from Bryan Spillane of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the international business.
And I guess if we look at it there was -- profit dollars were up about $150 million for 2013.
And I guess in the commentary you said it about 1/3 of your volume growth for the year came from the international operation.
So just -- can you give us some idea about if we look just the profit dollar contribution not margins but just how much of the profit dollar growth came from international is it more than 1/3 of revenues? Is it less? Just trying to get a sense for how much now that has becoming such a big slug of revenues just how it's contributing to the profit growth.
And maybe again not even if it's not specific but just try to give us some sense for as we model 2014 what your expectations are in terms of how the international revenues will contribute to profit growth? Essentially what we talked about is that in the international business we had strong gross margin improvement and beyond that we continue to invest in the business.
And so I guess what I would say at this point is that we continue to be on our targets as we're growing to building the models out in the international business.
But we are continuing to invest in the advertising and there's parts in the international business.
Yes Bryan it's Mark.
Just to clarify the 3.5 points in the fourth quarter contribution from international they had a very strong second half of the year as we expected and it will probably be a similar type of profile even in 2014 where international second half is bigger than the first half.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess what I was trying to get out is just are we are a point where you get leverage really on the SG&amp;A spending where it's not just that it's -- actually you're making obviously having a real good contribution to the revenue growth.
But at what point -- where are we I guess in terms of that evolution where the international growth also -- you get the leverage on the operating profit line which will give you the operating profit growth? Yes I think Bryan we're still early in the curve of our evolution there.
So what we want to make sure that the SG&amp;A investments that we are making continue to drive top line growth.
Even in markets like China our portfolio is quite limited today.
If you look around some of these key markets that would continue to be true as well.
So we're going to follow our business model of brand building because we have good healthy growth -- gross margins.
It does give us the chance to moderate that if we chose to do it.
But right now we continue to believe that we're building consumer awareness we're establishing brands and so I think we're going to continue to be in an investment mode for a while.
But obviously we look at SG&amp;A leverage in a number of different ways and we want to be mindful that we grow into any investments that we've made if for some reason we were out over our skis.
Our next question comes from David Driscoll of Citi.
Research Division</strong> My question just I want to focus on the U.S just a little bit Brookside.
I think by the numbers you gave I would calculate that Brookside is now kind of total size of something like $200 million.
Where do you think that this can go? And then when you talk about new product contribution of a point I would assume that because Brookside has such strong momentum going into 2014 new products and I'm hoping I can count this as one of them it will be more than a point of contribution in 2014.
So all things Brookside.
Yes.
Well I think first of all your estimate around where Brookside is currently at is certainly a good one and then to just give you a little bit of dimension on the full year.
So when we talk about 5 to 7 on the low side that innovation would be about a point in the algorithm and then on the topside obviously it would be closer to a couple of points.
If you look at 2013 most of our volume I mean literally all of the volume was volume growth but the beauty of it was on those core brands it was up about 3.8 volume on new product was up above 2.
And then Brookside was not considered a new product in 2013 and so it also had a significant contribution of about 1.3 points of that growth.
So if you take those numbers you get a little bit above the 7.6% growth rate but then you take the FX out and that's how you land back at 7.6%.
So we've been very fortunate that these new brands that we've introduced has been quite accretive to the portfolio and then we've been able to have quality innovation.
And nobody is going to ever have a perfect record on innovation but we've been very fortunate that we've had quite solid innovation that's helped.
And these brands are sticky.
They're contributing as they go forward.
And then the potential of Brookside I don't have any problem in thinking about it as a $500 million brand.
I don't have a date on that.
And then none of us know going well forward into the future but I see this is a brand that has global relevance and we just have to do a good job and make the most of it but I think this is the terrific brand that will establish itself truly as a big brand.
Research Division</strong> That was really helpful J.P.
If I could just do one follow-up on the U.S.
business.
I believe that one of your competitors is going to launch a Super Bowl commercial on Butterfingers and maybe trying to grab a slice of the Reese's pie.
Do you see a lot of interaction between those brands? And do have to do something special to defend yourself there? Well we have very solid programming on our Reese's brand.
This is a very very big brand and so we take all of these things seriously.
I think anything that brings people to the category is great.
Reese's defines largely the sweet and salty segment.
Usually when you have a variant of a parent brand it never becomes as large as the parent.
And so while I'm sure that it's a great product and they'll do well we'll make sure that we're fighting for our space as you get into March and March Madness and college football with NCAA programs and things we got terrific programming on Reese's.
We will defend it at home and we're looking to grow it globally.
So we are up for any fight that come our way.
Our next question comes from Andrew Lazar of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> With the category expected to grow as you said at the outset 3.5% to 4.5% this year some of it from new products you're putting out international contribution.
Certainly seems like there is obviously the high level of confidence and visibility in the 5% to 7% sales growth forecast for this year.
I guess partly where you fall in that range or even if you ultimately get above it but it depends on the ability to also continue to sort of take market share as you been doing pretty consistently? So I was just wondering can you give us sense that to the combination of the marketing spending and innovation that you've got give you enough comfort on additional market share gains even in the light of maybe more category activity? Yes well I think that category activity would be good for the category in total.
Its an expandable consumption category so I think we welcome those things and I'm sure retailers do as well.
And then we continue to feel really good about the execution we have against our brand.
So our goals are obviously to continue to execute well.
And I think we've got a pattern and a model that has demonstrated our ability to grow share and so I think a healthy category is really fundamental to that.
But I think what you'll see is quality rational behavior in the category and that's good for everybody.
Research Division</strong> Then on the new product you talked about when is that expected to hit the shelves this year? And can you even comment on whether it's sort of in the core confectionery sort of wheelhouse? Or is it something more on the fringe like a spreads-type thing I thought I'd give it a try? Yes well we'll probably not -- we're probably not going to talk about that quite yet but because we want do a really good job with the release and announcement of that.
So obviously you get a chance to see that it's later in the year.
But the things that we're currently doing we continue to feel really good about getting off to a great start and advertising on spreads is starting -- I think it's about February when we begin to see some other incremental advertising on some of the other things we're doing.
It's a consumable spreads product start to shipping in November but it's really building its presence now and on the front end and so on.
But we've got plenty of things to keep us busy and we'll make sure that when we get ready with our new item later in the year that you won't miss it.
I'm certain of that.
Our next question comes from David Palmer of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> A question on advertising.
Hershey has obviously over the many years you have been getting more consumer focused and centric in your approach.
You have been going from the low-end of peers to the high-end on ad spending.
While you're continuing to ramp that at least as high as sales perhaps the massive increase is over and with that in mind are you seeing less obvious ROI on incremental ad spending in certain areas perhaps in the U.S.
market perhaps with the new age media that's -- and the less live TV watching so to speak that's going on out there are you finding efficiencies in certain areas while expecting to ramp up and others? Just any sort of color about ad spending because one question that will come up is with less advertising ramp does that mean less core growth? And what would you say to that concern? Yes we look at ROI on our advertising very carefully.
We of course the mix moves around so it's not always on the same things.
But when you get a brand towards sort of the top of the curve and its at a sustaining level it doesn't mean you get to a sustaining levels on things begin to decline.
So you look at those things all the time so we're very rigorous with our models on how we advertise -- or how we analyze ROI.
So I feel very comfortable with that.
I think an important thing that you mentioned is how does media evolve and are we participating in ways where we think we have our most effective media.
So one of the things that we do is where we believe we aren't getting the ROI that would like to get we look at how do we use alternative media types how do you add digital to that we're continuously learning on our brands on a big brand like Reese's 10% of its budget is in digital.
And we continue to learn there.
I wouldn't tell you that many people and I wouldn't claim that we've mastered all of the evolution of digital but we look at the ROIs on that as fast as we can.
We feel that we're doing the right thing there as well so I think that with -- you can't make assumptions that just because you get to the sustaining levels means all of a sudden that mean the brands going to decline but it also means that you can look at that and plus and minus how you're doing.
It's all driven by a combination of ROI and marketplace need.
Our next question comes from Jason English of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions.
First J.P.
you gave us an outlook for the category next year.
I think it was 3.5% 4% 4.5% type growth.
As we think about this category growth are you expecting pricing to be a component of it? Or is that all volume-driven? Well we don't -- when we gave our guidance we don't include anything that would be M&amp;A or pricing-oriented it includes what we believe FX impact will be so that's not in those numbers.
Research Division</strong> I'm not referring to your guidance I'm referring to your outlook for the category.
Yes in the outlook for the category would not have pricing as a component.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And now I'm going to turn to international.
With it becoming such an important piece of the story here particularly from a growth perspective I was hoping you can give us a little bit more detail on it? And specifically can you give us a sense of this 16% growth? This 25% in China Brazil and Mexico and 45% in China.
How much of that is distribution related versus just the core? And also can you give us a sense of the magnitude or scale of these 3 markets relative to the $807 million figure you gave overall? Yes I'll tell you what was -- let's take advantage of Bert being here and he can chat about that and I'll fill in if it is appropriate.
Yes I would tell you that if you look at Mexico and Brazil with respect to distribution versus new and versus just core growth non-distribution it's largely all volume and not a lot on the distribution piece.
China is quite different where we're still expanding into more cities and so of the China growth about 1/3 of that would be additional distribution with the rest being velocity increases driven by advertising and some new brand activity J.P.
already mentioned.
We launched Hershey's Drops we launched a test market for Reese's as well as for IP mints [ph] and towards the end of the year Kisses Deluxe.
Research Division</strong> Any color on the size of the market? Yes we are not a segment reporter although I am sure we'll get there in due course but the only thing that we would continue to say is that we're shooting very close to that $1 billion mark which we've been targeting for 2014.
Among those I would say that China and Mexico are the bigger countries with Mexico still being our biggest outside of the U.S.
and Canada although that probable change as we get into that.
And we'll give you a lot more color when we get to CAGNY I think with respect to the different countries.
And while Brazil grew very quickly last year despite the FX impact it's the smaller of the three.
Our next question comes from Matthew Grainger of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on international.
You talked about accelerating growth in your key emerging markets through the year and sustaining some of that momentum into 2014 which obviously runs a little bit counter to what we are hearing from other consumer companies or specific categories.
Does your outlook for close to 20% sales growth reflect the view that the categories aren't showing any -- that your categories aren't showing any evidence of slowing? Or does it reflect an expectation maybe of even more robust or accelerated share growth over the next year? Yes I think what you're hearing about emerging markets could be different based on the categories across different CPG companies and what their maturity and development is so our category and this is one of the things that I think makes it an advantaged category at this point in time in history.
Is the category still relatively modest in a number of these markets? Consumers are participating in the category with greater frequency and we continue to expand portfolio offerings as we go.
So again I think they're very constructive markets in that's it's not a battle for market share in a stagnant or challenge environment.
It's really about building brands it's building the category it's being rational and consumers come to the category.
So I think that's why when you hear the players in the category talk about it you'll probably here some things that may seem to be a bit disconnected from the total and I'm not to say that we're immune from all things but I just think the category dynamics are quite different than a number of other categories and that's really why you hear some of these different commentaries.
And I think the other thing when we talk about the 15% to 20% that does include FX.
I mean we continue to see very good growth in local currencies.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Apologies if I missed it but can you give us a sense of what you are expecting in terms of FX headwind to sales for next year? We didn't say that but at current exchange rates that would be 0.5 point but it will be heavier in the first half for the year and a little bit less in the second half.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So close to 5% impact on international then? 0.5% on consolidated.
Research Division</strong> Consolidated company.
Total.
Operator we have time for one more question.
Our next question comes from Alexia Howard of Sanford C.
Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> While we've got both on the line can I ask one more question related to the Shanghai Golden Monkey acquisition? Specifically how it affects the margins trajectory in China? I think before the acquisition was announced it was going to be a few years before breakeven was achieved in the country.
Presumably the acquisition puts you on a different trajectory here maybe you could comment on that? Yes I think you got it right.
We are obviously in a much more of an investment mode in the chocolate side of the business which is our current business.
And we already mentioned Shanghai Golden Monkey would be slightly accretive if you exclude any of the onetime charges for integration post approve and post-closing.
So it will help that along at a little bit quicker pace than we would have had without the acquisition.
Okay.
Thank you very much for participating in today's conference call.
Investor Relations group will be available all day for any follow-up calls you may have and we'll see you all at CAGNY.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Crystal and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Hershey Company's First Quarter 2014 Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Mark Pogharian please go ahead.
Thank you Crystal.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the Hershey Company's first quarter 2014 conference call.
J.P.
Bilbrey President and CEO; Dave Tacka Senior Vice President and CFO; and I will represent Hershey on this morning's call.
We also welcome all of you listening via the web cast.
Let me remind everyone listening that today's conference call may contain statements which are forward-looking.
These statements are based on current expectations which are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements because of factors such as those listed in this morning's press release and in our 10-K for 2012 filed with the SEC.
If you have not seen the press release a copy is posted on our corporate website in the Investor Relations section.
Included in the press release is a consolidated balance sheet and a summary of consolidated statements of income prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Within the Notes section of the press release we have provided adjusted or pro forma reconciliations of select income statement line items quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.
The company uses these non-GAAP measures as key metrics for evaluating performance internally.
These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP.
Rather the company believes the presentation of earnings excluding certain items provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations.
As a result we will discuss 2014 first quarter results excluding net pre-tax charges of $13.4 million or $0.04 per share diluted related to the net acquisition and transaction costs primarily associated with Shanghai Golden Monkey project Next Century and non-service-related pension income.
Our discussion of any future projections will also exclude the impact of these net charges.
And with that out of the way let me turn the call over to J.P.
Bilbrey.
Thanks Mark.
Good morning to everyone on the phone and web cast.
During the first quarter we made solid progress against the initiatives we discussed earlier this year that gives us confidence Hershey will deliver on its 2014 expectation.
As we stated back in January and at CAGNY we expected the first quarter to be pressured by year ago comp and the timing of our 2014 innovation.
However Q1 topline results were a bit softer than we anticipated due to some unexpected anomalies related to U.S.
consumer trip within the various classes of trade and weakness in our Latin America business.
Despite Q1 store traffic issues U.S.
net sales increased 3.4% less than our expectations.
Specifically in channels such as convenience stores and dollar stores we are profitable and also instant consumable pack types drive sales consumer trips declined more than we anticipated.
In the traditional food and mass channels consumer trips were relatively in line with our expectation.
However the basket included a greater focus on staples.
Importantly as we got closer to the end of March and into April it appears the consumer shopping behavior was returning to normal.
While preliminary April Nielsen data for the four week ended April 19th indicate a strong sell-through for the Easter season and a sequential improvement in non-seasonal trend.
Additionally net sales declines in Latin America were impacted by the timing of Easter macroeconomic challenges and new tax legislation in Mexico on certain food products and volume elasticity in Brazil due to a price increase.
Overall total company Q1 net sales increased 2.4% driven primarily by volume.
Unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates was a 0.8 point headwind.
Organic net sales growth of 3.2% generated earnings growth that was slightly greater than we anticipated due to the timing of SM&amp;A expenses.
Dave will provide you with additional financial detail so let me provide you with an overview of the [indiscernible].
Before we get into the specifics the U.S.
retail takeaway recall that in 2014 Easter occurred on April 21 and in 2013 on March 31.
Therefore the timing of Easter has and will impact Nielsen and IRI data related to the March April and May quiet period.
Including Easter seasonal activity in the year ago and current period the candy mint and gum or CMG category declined 2.7% for the 12 weeks ended March 22 2014 within the xAOC+C channel.
As a reminder this is xAOC+C-store data consisting of food drug MassX and C-store channels plus the inclusion of Walmart partial dollar club and military channels.
Gum continues to be a drag on total CMG performance and excluding it the chocolate sweet and the refreshment categories 2.2%.
Excluding Easter seasonal activity in the current and year ago period combined category growth of chocolate sweet and refreshment was plus 2.4%.
Given the investment we continue to see in the category in the form of innovation and consumer marketing including the new product news and related activity we have planned over the remainder of the year we continue to expect a candy of mixed category to increase 3.5% to 4.5% in 2014.
We are particularly excited about our innovation that ramps up in May with the launch of YORK Minis and Hershey's Spreads as the consumable items in the third quarter launches of ICE BREAKERS Cool Blast's Chews and Brookside Crunchy Clusters.
Given the timing of Easter and our innovation calendar Hershey's CMG retail takeaway for the 12 weeks ending March 22 declined 3%.
Excluding Easter seasonal activity at both the current and year ago period of better yet still in perfect measure our retail takeaway was up 1.4%.
Despite the Easter comp this was less than our expectation and reflects the impact of the lower trip that I referred to earlier.
A better way to assess performance given seasonal timing and therefore noise in the datas [ph] by looking at absolute market results.
Hershey's first quarter market share within the U.S.
non-chocolate candy mint and gum categories increased.
However this was offset by a decline in chocolate market share given the timing of new product launches and related advertising and consumer marketing.
As a result Hershey's U.S.
CMG market share including Easter seasonal activity in the year ago and current period declined 0.1 point.
While results are preliminary we had a solid Easter and will gain share in this important season.
First quarter xAOC+C chocolate category growth excluding Easter in the current a year ago period was 3.6%.
Hershey's xAOC+C chocolate retail takeaway excluding Easter was up 1.2% and resulting in a loss of 1.1 market share points.
Looking at absolute market share results KIT KAT and Brookside Chocolate market share was up in the quarter however this was offset by Hershey franchise softness and Cadbury which lost 0.5 chocolate share points.
Cadbury is primarily sold during the Easter timeframe so we would fully expect a reversal of the share loss over the next two quiet periods.
Switching to non-chocolate candy or NCC in the xAOC+C channels the NCC category including and excluding Easter in the current and year ago periods declined 5.2% and 0.2% respectively.
Hershey's xAOC+C store NCC business including and excluding Easter in the current year-ago periods declined 4.9% and 2.7%.
As a result our NCC market share was slightly up as Lancaster gains offset declines in JOLLY RANCHER TWIZZLER bites.
Lancaster is off to a good start and distribution is tracking to expectations.
Advertising started on February 16 and is driving trial and repeat.
While early Lancaster results are similar to where Brookside was at this stage of the launch.
While not as large as chocolate and NCC we continue to do well within the gum and mint categories.
Specifically our Q1 gum and mint retail takeaway within the xAOC+C universe was up 29% and 6% respectively.
As a result our gum market share increased to 1.3 points and we now have a modest 4.8% share of the market.
Our mint market share increased 0.7 points expanding our segment leading position to 39.8%.
In the C-store class of trade where the Easter impacts are minimal the CMG category was up 3%.
However this was significantly impacted by the mid single digit percentage of decline in the gum category.
Excluding gum and despite trips being down in this channel in Q1 C-store candy and mint category growth was up a combined 5% driven by news and activity by major manufacturers.
Hershey instant consumable innovation and programming accelerates over the remainder of the year and we would expect our C-store performance to materially exceed our Q1 retail takeaway of 1.5% that resulted in a market share decline of 0.5 points.
In the U.S.
marketplace in addition to the many exciting new products I had previously mentioned we had many exciting promotions programs and merchandising in place across all channels.
These include a Reese's NCAA Gameday football program; new and highly effective Hershey S'mores! advertising; a relaunch of Hershey's Miniatures with improved taste and new packaging supported with refreshed advertising; and a sweet summer showdown program featuring TWIZZLERS and JOLLY RANCHERS.
The Hershey Spreads launch has gotten off to a good start.
Retailer response has been extremely positive driving spreads category growth of around 10%.
Category growth has been driven by the chocolate spread sub-segment which is up about 40%.
Most major retailers have accepted all three flavors of Hershey Spreads.
Advertising and couponing started in February and is driving initial trial and brand awareness which were leveraged when we launched the Hershey Spreads instant consumable product in May.
Outside of the U.S.
and Canada international results were mixed.
China continues to be a standout.
Net sales increased in the mid-teens on a percentage basis versus last year and exceeded plan.
In China Hershey continues to be one of the fastest growing international chocolate companies.
For the three months ended February chocolate category growth accelerated driven by gifting and timing of the holiday and Chinese New Year season.
As a result our chocolate retail takeaway of about 50% was more than double the category growth rate of almost 20%.
Our seasonal sell-through was solid as evidenced by a 2.3 point share gain and overall China market share of 10.1%.
Reese's testing and expansion continues and we are pleased with what we continue to learn.
The team continues to refine the messaging based on what we have learned to-date and we will apply these best practices during a broader roll-out later this year.
In Mexico our year-to-date chocolate market share in the Modern Trade increased 1.1 points.
However category growth slowed to the start of the year given Easter timing the VAT tax and a sluggish economy that's impacting consumer purchasing power and confidence.
As a result Mexico Modern Trade chocolate category sales declined about 1%.
This represents a slowdown versus the low double digit growth -- [Technical Difficulty] Similar information related to insights driven performance initiatives.
Now let me provide a brief update on our international business.
Similar to last year our expectation entering the year was that 2014 international sales growth would be back-half weighted.
We still -- Ladies and gentlemen Mark Pogharian here.
We apologize for the technical difficulty.
We believe JP you got cut off.
When JP started his remarks related to international commentary.
So we will pick it up from there and just the moment.
Again we apologize for the delay and please be patient while we pick up.
JP I will now turn it back to you if you start with your international commentary.
Okay.
Thank you everyone for your patience and I am going to have to move here in the room as we continue to make some adjustments so please bear with us.
So assuming that you can hear me now I will pick up with our international comments.
Outside of the U.S.
and Canada international results were mixed.
China continues to be a standout net sales increased mid-teens on a percentage basis versus last year and exceeded plan.
In China Hershey continues to be one of the fastest growing international chocolate companies.
For the three months ended February chocolate category growth accelerated driven by gifting and the timing of the holiday in Chinese New Year season.
As a result our chocolate retail takeaway of about 50% was more than double the category growth rate of almost 20%.
Our seasonal sell-through was solid as evidenced by a 2.3 point share gain and overall China chocolate share of 10.1%.
Reese's testing and expansion continues and we are pleased with what we continue to learn.
The Team continues to refine the messaging based on what we have learnt to-date and we will apply these best practices during a broader roll out later this year.
In Mexico our year-to-date chocolate market share and the Modern Trade increased 1.1 points.
However category growth slowed to start the year given Easter timing the VAT tax and a sluggish economy that is impacting consumer purchasing power and confidence.
As a result Mexico Modern Trade chocolate category sales declined about 1%.
This represents a slowdown versus the low double digit growth in 2013.
Given these headwinds we expect Mexico net sales growth to be pressured this year.
In Brazil local currency net sales were a bit below our plan and year ago as volume elasticity related to a price increase was greater than anticipated.
Year-to-date the chocolate category the Modern Trade declined 4.9% due to the timing of Easter.
We primarily participate in the tablet/bar and chocolate snack subsegments and the categories declined here as well.
However Hershey tablet/bar and chocolate snacks retail takeaway was up and we gained share.
We expect our business in Brazil to accelerate over the remainder of the year on a local currency basis and be up low double digits.
We have a good foundation in our key international markets.
We are building on our go-to-market capabilities driving trial and repeat and gaining market share.
We are focused on the long term and not guided by the impacts of foreign currency exchange rates which is the factor on [ph] while we'd most likely see international net sales growth of around 15% in 2014.
I am pleased with the progress we are making.
There are exciting things happening in our focus markets and we remain on-track towards the aspirational goals and we have shared with you over the last year.
Now to wrap up.
We were not pleased with our overall performance in the first quarter.
However core brand merchandising programming innovation and advertising accelerates and is expected to generate solid net sales growth over the remaining three quarters.
As a result we continue to expect 2014 full year net sales growth of 5% to 7% and a 9% to 11% increase in adjusted earnings per share diluted.
I will now turn it over to Dave who will provide some additional financial details.
Thank you JP.
Good morning to everyone on the phone and on the web cast.
First quarter net sales of $1.87 billion increased 2.4% versus last year generating adjusted earnings per share diluted of $1.15 an increase of 5.5% from last year.
The sales growth was below our expectation for the quarter primarily because of the U.S.
market anomalies JP discussed combined with lower sales in Mexico and Brazil.
We expected first quarter sales growth to be tempered by the comparison to the strong Brookside distribution gains last year our innovation calendar in 2014 and foreign currency headwinds.
In fact foreign currency exchange rates primarily the Canadian dollar and Brazilian real negatively impacted sales growth by 0.8 points resulting in organic sales growth of 3.2% for the quarter.
Sales growth was driven primarily by North America which increased 3%.
U.S.
net sales growth of 3.4% was essentially all volume related.
Canada achieved slightly higher volume growth offset by unfavorable FX.
Outside of the U.S.
and Canada net sales declined 2.4%.
Results varied by country with declines in Latin America and increases in Asia driven primarily by growth in China.
Turning now to margins; adjusted gross margin declined by 10 basis points in the quarter as higher input costs and an unfavorable sales mix more than offset supply chain productivity and cost savings initiatives.
We incurred higher than forecasted dairy and minor raw material costs in the quarter as well as lower fixed cost absorption resulting from the lower than forecast volumes.
For the year we now expect gross margin expansion of around 20 basis points.
This is lower than our previous estimate of around 50 basis points due primarily to higher input costs primarily dairy and a less favorable sales mix.
Adjusted EBIT in the first quarter increased 3.7% versus last year generating adjusted EBIT Margin of 22.3% a 30 basis point improvement.
The increase was driven by lower SM&amp;A expenses.
Advertising expense in related consumer marketing decreased about 3% versus last year.
Importantly we executed our planned advertising programs in the quarter including the recent CAA program seasonal celebrations advertising and launched support for the Lancaster and spreads introductions.
We expect advertising spending to increase over the remainder of the year supporting our new product launches and core brands in North American and international markets.
SG&amp;A excluding advertising increased 4% versus last year but less than our previous estimate as we delayed certain discretionary items in light of first quarter market trends higher input costs and our initiatives to achieve SG&amp;A leverage.
We will continue to invest in expanded root-to-market capabilities as well as knowledge based consumer information related to the insights driven performance initiatives.
Now let me provide a brief update on our international business.
Similar to last year our expectation entering the year was that 2014 international sales growth would be back half weighted.
We still believe that will be the case given the seasonality of our business together with our plans for advertising merchandising programming and new products including the broader distribution of Reese's in Q3 and Q4.
Q1 international net sales declined 2.4% in the quarter.
On a constant currency basis they increased 2%.
In our focus markets China net sales increased high teens on a percentage basis and continues to do well.
Importantly Chinese New Year sell-through was solid and we are gaining market share.
In Mexico sales declined.
Our chocolate business in the Modern Trade is responding to merchandising and programming.
However our sweets refreshment and beverage businesses have been pressured given the sugar tax and other macroeconomic headwinds impacting Mexican consumers.
We expect the Mexico business to continue to be challenged but to improve over the remainder of the year.
In Brazil sales declined as consumers are adjusting to higher price points.
We expect that our business will grow over the remainder of the year.
For the full year we expect international sales growth to be around 15%.
Note that this excludes the Shanghai Golden Monkey business which we estimate will close in the second quarter of 2014.
Moving down the P&amp;L first quarter interest expense of $21.4 million declined $2.2 million versus last year.
For the full year we continue to expect interest expense to be around $85 million.
The adjusted tax rate for the first quarter was 34.3% essentially in line with last year but slightly less than our expectations of 35% due to the timing of favorable tax issue resolution.
For the full year we expect the adjusted tax rate to be around 34.5%.
For the first quarter of 2014 weighted average shares outstanding on a diluted basis were approximately 227 million shares.
Turning now to the balance sheet and cash flow; at the end of the first quarter net trading capital increased versus last year's first quarter by $103 million.
Accounts receivable was higher b $104 million primarily because of sales timing and remains extremely current.
Inventory was higher by $52 million and accounts payable increased by $53 million.
Capital additions including software were $80 million in the first quarter.
For the year we continue to expect total capital expenditures to be about $355 million to $375 million including the capital related to the Johor Malaysia project of $120 million to $130 million.
Depreciation and amortization was $49 million in the first quarter in line with our estimates.
Cash outflows in Q1 included dividends of $105 million and the repurchase of approximately $272 million of our common shares to replace shares issued in connection with stock option exercises.
All shares were repurchased in the open market.
In 2014 we will make progress against the old share buyback authorization which has $125 million remaining on it before buying back shares related to the new authorization.
At the end of the first quarter cash on hand was just over $1 billion.
Let me close by providing some context on our 2014 outlook; as JP outlined.
We have initiatives in place that we believe will drive net sales growth across our business.
We are confident of our plans and we expect 2014 net sales growth within our targeted range of 5% to 7% including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates.
We believe we have concluded a strong Easter season and April Nielsen data is showing solid improvements in our every day business.
We expect net sales gains to build through the year driven by core brand volume growth and innovation in U.S.
and international markets.
Complemented by in-store merchandising programming and greater levels of advertising and consumer marketing.
We now expect gross margin expansion of around 20 basis points for the year.
We expect higher input costs and a less favorable sales mix versus 2013 offset by supply chain productivity and improved fixed cost absorption.
We have good visibility into our input costs with the exception of dairy costs which we are unable to hedge.
As we look at timing and year ago comps we expect second quarter gross margin to be similar to what we had in Q1.
Advertising and related consumer marketing is expected to increase mid-single digits on a percentage basis versus last year slightly below our previous estimate.
This change does not impact advertising spending on core brands but instead reflects decisions on return on investment analysis on non-scale brands and reductions in non-media consumer spending.
SG&amp;A expenses are expected to increase at a more modest level than previous years as we start to achieve SG&amp;A leverage.
This increase will build on the investments and go-to-market capabilities as well as consumer knowledge based projects related to our insights driven performance initiatives.
As a result we expect full year adjusted earnings per share diluted to increase within our long term targeted growth rate of 9% to 11%.
Note that this outlook excludes estimated operating results related to Shanghai Golden Monkey.
Upon approval of the agreement expected in the second quarter of 2014 and excluding acquisition and transaction costs the company expects the acquisition to be slightly accretive on an adjusted basis in 2014.
Thank you for your time this morning.
JP Mark and I will now take any questions you may have.
Thank you JP and Dave for your remarks.
For everybody on the line and the web cast we again apologize for the technical difficulty this morning.
But out of the respect to a lot of you couple of other peers that are reporting this morning and holding conference calls just so we can facilitate time here we would ask that you please limit yourselves to one question.
Thank you and operator we will now open it up for Q&amp;A.
Your first question comes from the line of Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
Rob? Operator we are not hearing any question.
His line is open sir.
Okay.
Why don't we go to the next question? Hello? Yes.
I am sorry.
This is Rob.
I guess my question is to do with the decision to cut advertising.
I wanted to know why make that decision to lower the advertising growth so early in the year its only first quarter.
It seems to be related to the gross margin cut as well.
Thank you.
I think Rob the way to think about it is that we have really taken a look at some of the secondary brands that we have been supporting and we have limited some of our advertising there.
On our core brands there really isn't any reduction and in fact advertising GRPs would be increased on a couple of levels.
One the dollar spend against core because of moving some of that mix around.
And then the other thing is is in GRP efficiency.
So as we become a more scaled purchaser one of the things that's happening is that we also are more efficient.
So if you really look at GRPs against those core brands and against the new item initiatives that we have we really feel as though we are executing against the strong plan and what we need.
And of course we will continue to assess that as we go forward.
But that's how I think you might want to think about that and then the other thing with innovation you also have then stronger consumer events there as well which we need to support.
So we really feel as though we have got a solid plan.
But John it seems like your competition is increasing advertising right now.
Are you concerned that you're kind of scaling back when they are scaling up? No I think -- well first of all your assessment is absolutely right and in fact in the first quarter we saw with new item introduction as well as some other strong support from competitors.
The absolute advertising level in the category was significantly higher than it has been.
So our advertising was higher as well but not as high as some of the competitive initiatives.
So I think as others move into higher advertising spends that's something that we have to be cognizant of.
I think a lot of that however was really in support of what was happening with new item introductions and then of course with Easter being later some of that advertising also -- for us also falls into April as well.
But your point is noted.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Good morning Bryan.
Hey good morning.
So I guess the one question I wanted to ask was just based or relative to gross margin outlook and the potential of the raised prices.
I guess last couple of years -- or the last five years I guess whatever; there has been some meaningful change in raw material costs you have been able to price it through.
So I guess is that in the realm of expectations or possibilities looking forward if we are going to see elevated input costs going forward is there a chance that may be there would be ability to price that through or at this point do you think that the elasticities just don't work in your favor in that regard? Thanks.
Dave and I will take that its a two-part; and the first part is we don't talk about or speculate around what we think pricing will be in the category.
But what I would say is as you have heard us say before we will continue to be a gross margin focused organization it would be tough to necessarily have the levels of gross margin expansion we had in 2013 but we continue to be very gross margin focused and then from a commodity perspective I will let Dave make any comment he feels appropriate.
As we said we are seeing slightly higher commodity costs particularly dairy as we look at 2014.
But we do have good visibility on our cost basket other than dairy for 2014 and we will be addressing 2015 later in the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Ken Zaslow with Bank of Montreal.
Good morning everyone.
Just continuing on the ad spending what changed with the analysis of the ad spend; because you guys do typically have pretty good analytics.
So I am not sure exactly what changed as you were looking through it.
Then just to follow-up on that is how much leeway do you have for the cut just say the sales or your numbers don't come within -- the top line doesn't come within your expectations again at least there is another leeway for you to reduce that excitement a little bit more? Well I think first of all philosophically we want to make sure that we are fully supporting our brands against the strategies that we have articulated.
There are brands which we have chosen to not support that we have been supporting or reduce some support.
So again I think that that's a decision driven by analytics and its a good decision.
And then we really feel as though based on the ROIs and what we know at this point in time that we are fully supporting those brands and then our innovation in the second half.
If there were to be a material change in the category we are very committed to being brand builders then we would assess that as we would believe appropriate.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning Eric.
I am a bit confused on some of the international stuff between local currency and dollar results.
I think JP you said that and this was kind of split up but I think you said China was up mid-teens but then Dave said it was up high teens.
I think you mentioned something about being up 50% and two times the category --? Eric to just put clarification around that.
So one is a sales number and the others were off-take numbers during that period of time.
So those would be what the difference is but those are -- and remember with Chinese New Year and so forth you get -- some of that shipment is actually would have been in the fourth quarter of last year and then the off-take really is happening in the quarter.
So that's why you would see differences in that and Mark can help you with greater detail around that.
And then if you look at the other markets in local currency we made good progress in Brazil but the real hurt us on FX.
You had some of that in Mexico and Canada as well.
So on a local currency basis in both Brazil and Canada we felt good about our progress but FX hurt us a little bit more there.
Thanks and just as a -- Eric the profile for international will probably be very similar to last year where you get much greater part of the growth in the second half.
So the international dollar sales are down 2.4 in the quarter.
You're saying that for the year international sales will be up 15% in dollars or is that local currency? Its in dollars.
That would be dollars including FX impact.
Including FX impact.
But ex-M&amp;A.
Okay I will pass it on.
Thank you.
Thanks Eric.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Hi Andrew.
Hi good morning everybody.
Just want to pick up on the pricing theme as well.
And again not whether you will or won't take it of course but I remember the last time you took a price increase.
It was the first time in quite some time that promotive price points went up as ell.
And I think because you were bumping up against some key retail sort of price thresholds.
I think the promotive price points went up like 20% or so and you ended up managing it very well in hindsight [indiscernible] and all of that.
So I guess what I am trying to get a sense of is is there any way to may be hard to do the -- kind of characterize where you are today and the next time you take pricing whenever that may be if its a year if its three years.
But are you bumping up against any key retail sort of promotive price point thresholds or is there some room to kind of work with them there? I think the way that I would think about it is if you look over an extended period of time the category has been pretty unelastic and so its 50% volume and 50% price realization historically in the category.
As we have crossed price thresholds which we always watch very-very closely.
Our experience has been pretty positive that the category digests that pricing.
So the category in general I think has demonstrated its ability to again be pretty accessible and affordable and that really has sort of won the day.
And then there is a couple of things to think about in terms of how companies may think about pricing is obviously there is a commodities element and then there is an element of how you invest in the business and I don't think its exclusively one or the other but we look at both of those.
And I think both of those things are intrical to how you would think about that particular topic and that's probably -- Andrew I don't know if that satisfies you but that's probably about as far as I can go on that.
That's helpful.
I appreciate your perspective.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of David Driscoll with Citi.
Hi Dave.
Hi guys.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Wanted to go back to advertising for a minute; just to be clear at least as much as we can.
So add spending in the quarter down 3% full year at mid single digit increase.
So clearly its going up you're supporting your products not as much as before but you're supporting it.
I think what this suggests is that the change was almost entirely in the first quarter and as I look at Qs two three and four you're going to have fairly substantial increases in two three and four.
So first off is that right and is that pretty much consistent with the plans? I think it kind of helps people to understand that may be the big change was Q1 and its not something that's massively different in the next bunch of quarters.
Can we just start there? Yeah I think that's a very good assessment.
Okay.
Then on the increases that you have coming in Qs two three and four where are they going to be deployed? Because I think what everybody is just going to want to understand as best they can is your expectation that sales growth will accelerate and I think its going to be directly related to where all this additional ad spending goes.
So can you talk about how you deploy it? Well if you think about the innovation we have this year its actually spread across our different segments of the business and so you will see the appropriate amount of advertising supporting a broad piece of the portfolio but appropriately you will see it supporting the new initiatives.
Then you have Lancaster and spreads which really just started in February and we are building distribution there.
So you will see strong support for those as we go throughout the year we feel very good about our distribution progress.
We have had a coupon drop and we should continue to build on our merchandising and then advertising support for both of those as well.
So those will be brands that are supported.
And just to be clear coming back the support on our core brands continues to grow.
So a lot of that growth again is out of GRP purchase efficiency and it is not making a choice not to advertise on some secondary brands.
And if you recall historically we have talked about how we like to rotate across those brands so that's also money that comes back against the core.
Really appreciate it.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Goldman with JP Morgan.
Good morning Ken.
Hey everybody thanks for the questions.
My guess is you're cutting ad spending on may be some brands like I don't know Bliss Simple Pleasures.
At least in Nielsen data they're lagging a bit.
So first of all is that correct? That's correct.
That's right.
So AIR DELIGHTS too I would imagine.
Can you talk a little bit about the future of those brands? How should we think about them? I guess I am asking is there a risk they get delisted is there some [indiscernible] coming because -- often when step one is cutting advertising step two can be the brand loses whatever I don't want to say shaky but whatever legs it had? I think the way to think about it is it doesn't mean that we would not be supporting those brands.
I think in a couple of instances those -- there may be some other brands that you talked about that have ended up playing more of a niche role than maybe we would have hoped at one point in time.
Then in the case of bliss its a meaningful brand and within a position but that whole trade-up space has sort of evolved over time.
And so it doesn't mean that we wouldn't support a brand like Bliss but we are in an environment where we believe making choices is important and these brands will evolve and consumers will ultimately decide how they do.
Great thanks JP.
You bet.
Your next question comes from the line of David Palmer with RBC.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Typically Hershey starts the year rather quickly and this year obviously its not the case but some of that seems to be your timing of new product news.
But some of it seems to be from what we are hearing Mars which has been rather aggressive on promotion and that's a big contract for the last couple of years could you comment on that? And then specifically related to the seasonal share which I guess was down significantly if I look at the numbers in your release.
We hear there may have been something of a co-packer issue where orders weren't filled right away for Hershey one of your co-packers was that a factor at all in the quarter? No let me talk about kind of -- le make a broad statement here about the quarter.
So first all you have the timing of Easter being three weeks later.
So there is just a lot of noise in the data.
Yet strong competitive program it included new items and also increased advertising.
Our plan as you point out is much more back-half loaded than it was before.
So even though we had introductions with -- kick out many as you have spreads you have Lancaster all of those are currently building.
And then you have anomalies in the consumer purchasing pattern.
So all of those things clearly had an influence I wouldn't focus on one much more than the other.
As we look at weekly data and as I've said to you guys many times I don't get overly enamored by weekly data.
But I guess in this case what I would tell you is I continue to be encouraged that our hypothesis around the quarter and the things that we are describing to you I feel good about because as we look at the weekly data it continues to strengthen and in fact in the latest weekly data on year-to-date basis our total CMG share has turned positive which again gives me confidence that as I talk to retailers consumers seem to be back in stores I can't comment on for anybody what their spending is.
But it appears to feel as though some of the trips issues some of the basket mix etcetera I am more comfortable calling it an anomaly.
I do believe going forward there is some degree of bifurcation in the total consumer environment but we will sort that out for all CPG as we go forward.
But I am just feeling a lot better as I see some of this weekly data come in that we have called this about right.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
I just wanted to focus on the factors underlying the lower gross margin outlook.
I know there are some specific external things like higher dairy and Q1 traffic that have had an incremental impact.
But looking beyond the lower sort of Q1 fixed cost allocations and what already know about dairy prices to what extent does that lower gross margin outlook also reflect of you that the competitive and the promotional environment could be sustainably a bit more intense than you originally envisioned? Well the biggest chunk of the gross margin change is in fact the dairy outlook.
There are some impacts around the sales mix which are principally in the first quarter and we have programming very well set for the balance of the year and so we think that we are in the right place on that and we have a good view of the commodity cost with the exception of dairy.
And I would say too Matt even if you continue to look your IRI and Nielsen data you just don't see a lot of positive or negative price in that category which would help answer your question as well of what's really going on.
I mean as JP alluded to there is just a lot of activity in the first quarter which is what we expected in news coming into this year.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
Good morning.
Good morning JP.
Just in terms of the elasticity in Brazil.
Did the magnitude of that surprise you at all? And then maybe related if you look around some of these snacking categories in developing markets biscuits gum one can may be argue here that they category level growth hasn't really snapped back from the recession.
Is that your sense that these categories are kind of prone for more tempered growth going forward? Just your thoughts there? You know I actually would tell you that I continue to be very positive on the category especially on the chocolate segment across just about all of these markets and I think that we are going to have some of these different dynamics the real got awfully strong unusually strong from my historical experience and now its moving the other direction.
So I think as we look at what do we believe are the right plans within a given market? Do we feel on a local currency basis we are managing our business correctly for the long term? And then we have a relatively modest sized business in a country like Brazil and with that being the case sometimes when you have negatives from a translation standpoint the impact is accentuated.
So we sometimes probably have that as a bit of a greater influence on how those numbers come out.
But I continue to feel good about the progress the distribution we are building across the country and our brand portfolio there.
I think for our company part of what you see there may be less macro and a little bit more unique to us given the size of our business there.
Great.
Thanks JP.
You bet.
Your next question comes from the line of Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
Good morning Alexia.
Hi.
Just wanted to pick up on your comments about the lower consumer trip in the instant consumable channel and the irregular approach in patterns and traditional mass.
Could you just give us a little bit of a handle on what that was and I know it's settled down now but what caused it to settle down? Thank you.
If you looked at just trips in general and you went back to about June-July 2013 you could start to see a change in the frequency of trips and then the distances people drove from their home to do their primary shopping and so that was one of the reasons the food channel is an example continue to do a little bit better as people got a higher percentage of their primary trip there and so that was one of the influences.
It continued through the fall and into the first quarter and what we observed as we look at total store data and household panel data etcetera is that the mix in the basket changed.
So you got a little bit greater focus on staples versus instant consumables.
If you think about people who may have been impacted by the weather and then when we saw differences across the country if weather wasn't an issue versus whether being an issue.
And then you also have changes in some of the government programs that people had to adjust to and figure out what that meant for them.
And so I think this concept of bifurcation also is an issue in terms of how people build their basket.
And so there was just a lot of moving parts in what we believe we are seeing is a bit of an emergence from that where things both in terms of traffic primary shopping outlets as well as mix of the basket is returning to what we might call a more historical norm.
I think the trips data of course will continue to follow and see if you know that changes and it comes back.
But those are really some of the influences that were in that comment.
Great.
Thank you very much.
I will pass it on.
Operator we have time for one more question.
Thank you.
Your last question is from Rob Dickerson with Consumer Edge Research.
Good morning.
Hello.
So just a question on balance sheet and cash flow.
I understand Q1 is a little bit more pressured than expected.
Part of it is coming out of international advertising's pullback.
We have seen share loss in the U.S.
coming from lower end but we are also seeing it from Russell and some of the higher end guys.
There has also been some discussion though on the M&amp;A front for some smaller players one of the company executives is getting very old to be frank and in another company there has been rumors that the brothers might be looking to sell.
I am just curious if you were to come under pressure you are now running at a net debt level its about a 15 year low.
I understand all the near term pressures in the business but could you may be just kind of discuss a bit what your theory is around capital allocation outside of Golden Monkey over the next two years haven't seen any shares purchased really or repurchased to effect EPS over the past two years for the most part.
I don't really feel like I thought you were talking about the balance sheet thanks.
Okay.
Well I guess we feel very good about the balance sheet.
We have a very strong balance sheet and as we look at -- and we had about $1 billion in cash at the end of the quarter.
As we look at both our cash and our debt capacity our priority first continues to be to grow and so we are continuing to look at M&amp;A opportunities and we are also investing in capital to support our business growth.
We have got new plant under construction in Malaysia and we will have some additional need for additional volume as our business grows.
So our number one priority for cash and debt continues to be growth and we expect that to be M&amp;A and also to be the capital investments.
Our second priority is dividends.
We have a policy of about 50% dividend pay out of our earnings and so that's where we would go.
And then third we would go to share buyback.
We buy back what is exercised in options and as I reported we bought back a bit over $200 million in the first quarter for replenishing option exercises and we also have $125 million on an old authorization and an additional $250 million on a new authorization that we did earlier in the year and we expect to be making progress against those as we go through the year.
But that's kind of our priorities first is growth second is dividend and then we will buy back shares after that.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you very much for joining us for today's conference call.
Again we apologize for the technical difficulties and Sergio Flores and I will be available to take any follow-up calls that you may have.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Phyllis and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Hershey Company's Second Quarter 2014 Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Mark Pogharian you may begin your conference.
Thank you Phyllis.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the Hershey Company's Second Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
J.P.
Bilbrey President and CEO; Dave Tacka Senior Vice President and CFO; and I will represent Hershey on this morning's call.
We also welcome those of you listening via the webcast.
Let me remind everyone listening that today's conference call may contain statements which are forward looking.
These statements are based on current expectations which are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements because of factors such as those listed in this morning's press release and in our 10-K for 2013 filed with the SEC.
If you have not seen the press release a copy is posted on our corporate website in the Investor Relations section.
Included in the press release is a consolidated balance sheet and a summary of consolidated statements of income prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Within the notes section of the press release we have provided adjusted pro forma reconciliations of select income statement line items quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.
The company uses these non-GAAP measures as key metrics for evaluating performance internally.
These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP.
Rather the company believes the presentation of earnings excluding certain items provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations.
As a result we will discuss 2014 second quarter results excluding net pretax charges of $2 million or $0.01 per share diluted related to net acquisition and transaction cost primarily associated with Shanghai Golden Monkey Project Next Century charges as well as non-service-related pension income.
Our discussion of any future projections will also exclude the impact of these net charges.
With that out of the way let me turn the call over to J.P.
Bilbrey.
Thanks Mark and good morning to everyone on the phone and webcast.
Net sales sequentially improved versus the first quarter and we continue to make progress against the initiatives that will drive improved performance over the remainder of the year.
In the second half of the year seasonal growth will be solid.
New products will launch and we'll have new initiatives that should enable us to deliver on our objectives.
Driven by a late and solid Easter season second quarter CMG category growth was 6.8%.
Hershey marketplace results were also strong with Q2 retail takeaway of 7.5% resulting in a 0.2 point market share gain offsetting the decline we experienced in the first quarter.
Our Easter sell-through was very good and we gained 1.1 market share points in this important season.
On a quarterly and year-to-date basis chocolate is driving category growth and as we stated earlier this year we expect our net sales and marketplace performance to be driven by strong second half activity that we have planned.
But our first half results have been below our expectations.
In-store activity and trends were difficult to interpret over the first few months of the year given abnormal shopping patterns a late Easter and a continued challenging macro-environment especially related to the consumer who has not participated in the economic recovery.
However we've now been able to discern that across the broader snacking continuum especially as it relates to the instant consumable pack type we're encountering greater levels of competitive in-store merchandising and programming.
As a result over the remainder of the year in addition to solid seasonal growth and previously mentioned new product launches we have a few more initiatives than we initially planned.
A couple examples of those include a King of Summer program which is a major effort within the C-store channel to increase king-sized displays; a new limited-edition instant consumable product to drive excitement variety news and more importantly merchandising and programming; a new Brookside product launch in December in addition to the Brookside Crunchy Clusters; and incremental shelf space gains in the C-store channel as a result of favorable shelf sets.
We feel good about the plans that we have in place our business model and the opportunities that lie ahead.
We continue to believe that over the long-term the candy and mint category grows in the 3% to 4% range.
Although given year-to-date results and the aforementioned challenges category growth will most likely be around 3% in 2014.
Before we get into the details of the second quarter I'd like to spend a moment on the pricing action announced on July 15.
As you're all aware commodity prices have been volatile.
Prices for many of the primary and secondary commodities that we use in our products have increased year-over-year.
Given category dynamics related to pricing flow-through and the view of our future cost profile a price increase was necessary to protect our margins.
This action was effective immediately on July 15.
However during the 4-week period ending August 12 existing customers can based on their historic order patterns order up to 8 weeks of inventory at the previous price if delivery occurs by September 7.
On everyday items consumers will start to see higher prices primarily on instant consumables and on in-aisle non-merchandise take-home items.
As such we expect initial price elasticity impact to result in lower volume over the remainder of the year primarily in the fourth quarter and into 2015.
We do not expect this action to materially impact our financial results this year.
While it is a bit early to measure consumer reaction in response to pricing we feel that our brand support innovation consumer spending and investment in go-to-market capabilities should enable us to deliver on our long-term target.
Now for some marketplace performance.
Nielsen's second quarter measures do not encompass the entire Easter season in both the year ago and current periods.
Therefore the majority of my remarks today will refer to year-to-date marketplace performance for the 24 weeks ended June 14 2014.
Year-to-date CMG that's candy mint and gum category growth in the xAOC+C channels was up 2.1%.
However gum continues to be a drag on total CMG performance and if you exclude it the category was up 3%.
Total Hershey CMG retail takeaway for the year-to-date period through June 14 2014 in channels that account for about 90% of our U.S.
retail business was up 2.2% in line with overall category growth with market share of 31.1% flat versus the previous period.
As a reminder this represents xAOC+C store data consisting of food drug MassX and C-store channels plus the inclusion of Walmart and partial Dollar Club and Military channels.
Year-to-date xAOC+C chocolate category growth was plus 3.5% and in the range we expected given the level of activity in the category.
Hershey's xAOC+C chocolate retail takeaway was 2% resulting in a loss of 0.7 chocolate market share points.
We expect our performance in the back half of the year to be better given the launch of York Minis and Brookside Crunchy Clusters.
Retail takeaway for Reese's Kit Kat and Brookside was solid resulting in market share gains for all 3 brands.
Year-to-date non-chocolate candy or NCC xAOC+C category growth was plus 1.6%.
It has lagged chocolate category growth given the industry's focus on chocolate.
In xAOC+C channels Hershey's non-chocolate candy retail sales declined 1% resulting in a market share loss of minus 0.4 points.
However post-Easter our NCC trends improved and we've outpaced the category driven by the Lancaster brand.
Lancaster continues to show very positive results.
Trial and repeat is in line with expectations and it's revitalizing the caramel category.
Distribution is in our targeted range with plans in place to increase distribution in the back half of the year.
While not as large as chocolate in NCC we continue to do well within the gum and mint categories.
Specifically our year-to-date gum and mint retail takeaway was in the xAOC+C universe was up 29% and 7% respectively.
As a result our gum market share increased 1.2 points and we now have a 4.9% share of the market.
Our mint market share increased 0.7 points expanding our segment-leading position to 39.8%.
In the C-store class-of-trade Easter impacts are minimal.
Here for the 12 weeks ended June 14 the CMG category was up 1.9%.
Excluding gum and despite trips being down again in this channel C-store candy and mint 12-week category growth was up a combined 3.1%.
Hershey's Q2 C-store performance was less than our expectations.
Our total C-store retail takeaway increased 1.3% driven by our mint business with posted growth of 7.2%.
However we underperformed in chocolate resulting in Q2 C-store CMG market share loss of 0.2 points.
Overall C-store trends were mixed.
In Q1 C-store chocolate category growth was about 6% due to introductory price points of new competitive products.
With the inclusion of this promotion Q2 C-store chocolate category growth slowed to about 3%.
Hershey's Q2 C-store chocolate retail takeaway was up only 1.1%.
Our C-store performance was soft in the first half of the year given that more of our innovation was in take-home versus instant consumable pack types.
As I mentioned earlier we're seeing more in-store activity across the broader snack categories.
Combined with lower trips and economically challenged consumers our merchandising and programming was not as effective.
From my earlier comments we're making changes and updates to our merchandising programming innovation and consumer investment over the remainder of the year and into 2015 to improve our performance.
I'd also like to provide you with an update on our grocery segment whose marketplace performance is excluded from the CMG Nielsen database.
The Hershey spreads launch has gotten off to a good start.
We're on track with our plans related to the jar and the instant consumable pack types.
Given the mid-May launch of the IC items and repeat jar purchases the contribution of Hershey spreads net sales will be greater in the second half of the year versus the first half.
Our ACV target for the spreads jar was reached in the Q2 and instant consumable ACV is off to a good start and will build over the remainder of the year.
Additionally in the fourth quarter we'll launch Reese's spreads a peanut butter chocolate spread and my personal favorite which has tested very positively.
Additionally we partnered with Pizza Hut on desserts portfolio featuring Hershey's chocolate chips.
We believe this will have a halo effect on our baking chips business just in time for the upcoming holiday baking season.
Moving now to international.
Net sales were in line with the outlook we provided last quarter.
We anticipated a profile similar to last year despite slightly greater foreign currency headwinds.
International net sales were in line with expectations up 7%.
China continues to do very well.
Our sales increased double digits and Hershey continues to be one of the fastest growing international chocolate companies in China.
For the 3 months ended June 14 chocolate category growth was around 7.7% less than last quarter and typical of the trend post the Chinese new year.
But our chocolate retail takeaway of about 30% was almost 4x the category growth rate and we're poised to have another solid year.
We're on track to achieve distribution gains in the second half of the year and begin a phased launch of Reese's in the fourth quarter.
In Mexico and overall economic environment remains sluggish.
As expected our business sequentially improved in the first quarter with net sales flat on a local currency basis versus last year.
Modern trade chocolate category growth resumed in Q2 and was up about 4%.
Hershey retail takeaway of 11% resulted in a market share gain of 0.8 points.
Given the economic challenge it's facing traditional trade consumers in Q2 our non-chocolate business underperformed the category.
We expect a tough operating environment in Mexico over the remainder of the year with a sales profile similar to the second quarter.
After being down in the first quarter Brazil Q2 net results increased double digits versus last year reflecting April shipments related to a late Easter.
Importantly chocolate category growth resumed in the second quarter albeit helped by a late Easter.
On a year-to-date basis the Brazil chocolate category is up about 2.3% while Hershey has increased about 2.9%.
We now have a 4.8% share in this important market.
Given the challenging macroeconomic environment we would expect category and Hershey growth to be slightly below last year.
We're focused on the long-term and not concerned about the impact the foreign currency exchange rates or near-term challenges facing consumers.
We remain very optimistic about our businesses in these key international markets and expect international net sales growth of around 15% in 2014.
Dave will provide you with additional financial details of our Q2 results and our full year outlook so let me now provide you with some closing thoughts.
Over the remainder of the year we'll have greater levels of merchandising programming and innovation in the marketplace.
Advertising GRPs or impressions will be up mid-single digits on a percentage basis for the full year versus 2013.
Advertising GRPs are able to increase greater than advertising dollars this year due to a new global media planning and buying process that is leveraging our scale.
Halloween orders are on track and we have the right mix of seasonal specific advertising coupons and programming support that sets the stage for another winning season.
So we have a lot of activity over the remainder of the year that should help us drive sales growth.
Additionally we continue to feel good about the outlook for candy and mint category growth.
Overall the category continues to perform well with year-to-date gains within the category's historical growth rate.
Investments in the category in the form of advertising and innovation are present for most major manufacturers.
Given high household penetration and the impulsive nature of the category as well as affordable price points we believe retailers and consumers will continue to value the confectionery category.
As a result we would expect the category to continue to consistently secure key merchandising and programming space even as price points may rise.
Thank you for your time and let me now turn it over to Dave.
Thank you J.P.
and good morning to everyone on the phone and on the webcast.
Second quarter net sales of $1.58 billion increased 4.6% versus last year generating adjusted earnings per share diluted of $0.76 an increase of 5.6% from last year.
We expected second quarter sales to improve sequentially versus the first quarter and they did.
However sales growth was below our expectations given the U.S.
mix headwinds and the increased levels of in-store activity across the broader snack continuum that J.P.
discussed.
Organic net sales growth of 5.3% was driven by volume.
As expected new product launches are on track from net sales and a marketplace perspective and we're about 60% of our total volume growth.
Core-branded contribution was about 40%.
The unfavorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates was 0.7 points and in line with our expectations.
North America's sales increased 4.5% with balanced growth in the U.S.
and Canada.
International net sales increased 7% relatively in line with our expectations.
Turning to margins.
Adjusted gross margin declined by 230 basis points in the quarter as higher input costs primarily commodities and unfavorable sales mix more than offset supply chain productivity and cost savings initiatives.
Dairy costs in the quarter were higher than our expectations.
As many of you know there's not a developed futures market for dairy which significantly limits opportunities to hedge our requirements.
While spot prices have declined slightly from year-to-date high U.S.
market costs remained at elevated levels.
As a result of the higher prices we have increased our dairy cost forecast for the remainder of the year.
This increase as well as higher trade spending primarily for greater merchandising activities will adversely impact gross margin particularly in the third quarter.
Adjusted earnings before interest and taxes in the second quarter increased 1.6% versus last year generating EBIT margin of 17.7% a 60-basis-point decline versus last year.
The decrease was due to the lower gross margin partially offset by slightly lower selling marketing and administrative expenses.
During the quarter advertising and related consumer marketing expense declined about 5% versus the prior period.
GRPs increased in the quarter as we continued to fully execute our on-air advertising programs for our major brands and new products.
The reduced expense was primarily the result of decisions to delay new production costs and shift some funding to coupons and trade merchandising to better reflect today's consumer environment.
Selling marketing and administrative expenses excluding advertising and related consumer marketing was about the same level as the prior year as higher selling and employee-related costs were offset by a $5.6 million foreign currency exchange gain related to the manufacturing facility under construction in Johor Malaysia.
Now let me provide a brief update on our international business.
Similar to last year we believe 2014 international sales growth will be back-half weighted given the timing of distribution gains new product launches and seasonal growth.
Second quarter international net sales increased by 7%.
On a constant currency basis they were up 10.4%.
In our focused markets China net sales increased low double digits and we continue to grow market share.
We are on track to achieve further distribution gains in the second half of the year including the phased launch of Reese's in the fourth quarter.
In Mexico second quarter net sales declined about 5% versus last year due to foreign currency headwinds.
On a constant currency basis sales were about flat an improvement versus the first quarter.
We expect the operating environment in Mexico to remain sluggish over the remainder of the year resulting in a sales profile similar to the second quarter.
In Brazil second quarter sales increased double digits due to the timing of Easter shipments that occurred in April.
Over the remainder of the year we expect the chocolate category in Brazil to be pressured by a soft economy and volume elasticity related to pricing.
Therefore we expect total international net sales growth for the year of around 15%.
Note that this excludes the Shanghai Golden Monkey business which we estimate will close before the end of the year.
Moving down the P&amp;L.
Second quarter interest expense of $21 million was about the same as last year.
For the full year we expect interest expense to be around $85 million.
The adjusted tax rate for the second quarter was 34.3% in line with our estimate.
For the full year we continue to expect the adjusted tax rate to be around 34.5%.
For the second quarter of 2014 weighted average shares outstanding on a diluted basis were approximately 225 million shares leading to an adjusted earnings per share diluted of $0.76 an increase of 5.6% versus year ago.
Now let me provide a quick recap of year-to-date adjusted results.
Net sales increased 3.4% in the first half.
Adjusted EBIT increased 2.8% resulting in an adjusted EBIT margin of 20.2%.
Year-to-date gross -- adjusted gross margin was 46.0% versus 47.1% last year or 110 basis points lower due to higher commodity costs.
Adjusted earnings per share diluted in the first half increased 5% to $1.90 per share.
Turning now to the balance sheet and cash flow.
At the end of the second quarter net trading capital increased versus last year's second quarter by $82 million.
Accounts receivable was higher by $57 million primarily because of sales timing and remains extremely current.
Inventory was higher by $76 million and accounts payable increased by $52 million.
Capital additions including software were $70 million in the second quarter.
For the year we now expect total capital expenditures to be about $380 million to $390 million including the capital related to the Johor Malaysia project.
This is an increase from previous guidance primarily as a result of including capital in the China manufacturing JV that we've now taken control of.
Depreciation and amortization was $51 million in the second quarter in line with our estimates.
During the second quarter the company repurchased the $125 million of outstanding shares completing the $250 million repurchase authorization that was approved in April 2011.
Additionally we repurchased $40 million of our common shares to replace shares issued in connection with exercises of stock options.
All $165 million of the acquired shares were repurchased in the open market.
The company continues to generate substantial free cash flow and has a strong balance sheet.
As was mentioned in this morning's press release we have increased our quarterly dividend by 10% so that we remain in line with our targeted 50% payout ratio.
This action reflects our confidence in the long-term growth potential of our business.
Additionally we have authorization to make additional repurchases of up to $250 million based upon cash availability within our cash use priorities.
Cash at end of the second quarter of $563 million was relatively in line with the year ago period.
The company is well-positioned to fund our working capital needs capital expenditure requirements and the Golden Monkey acquisition.
Let me close by providing some context on our 2014 outlook.
As J.P.
outlined we have initiatives in place that we believe will drive net sales growth across our businesses over the remainder of the year.
We believe these actions will result in 2014 net sales growth around the low end of our 5% to 7% long-term target including the impact of the price increase and foreign currency exchange rates.
Due primarily to higher dairy costs greater merchandising and unfavorable mix we now expect gross margin to be slightly down versus 2013.
Based on the timing of new product launches in both North America and international markets advertising and related consumer marketing expense in the second half of the year is expected to be up mid-single digits on a percentage basis versus last year with the biggest increase expected in the third quarter.
This will result in full year expense being up low-single digits.
As J.P.
mentioned the increase in GRPs will be greater than dollars this year.
We continue to expect SM&amp;A expense excluding advertising to increase this year at a rate less than sales as we leverage the investments we've made over the last few years.
As a result we expect full year adjusted earnings per share diluted to be around the low end of our long-term growth rate of 9% to 11%.
We continue to expect that the fourth quarter will drive second half and full year EPS growth as we begin to lap the higher commodities and SM&amp;A cost levels.
Additionally note that this outlook excludes operating results related to Shanghai Golden Monkey which we now expect will close by year end.
We continue to expect Golden Monkey results excluding acquisition and transaction costs to be accretive in our first year of ownership.
The impact in 2014 is now expected to be minimal given the later-than-expected closing date.
Thank you for your time this morning.
J.P.
Mark and I will now take any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> I just have a couple -- a couple of questions if I could please.
The first would be I guess maybe to Dave in terms of the gross margin being down slightly for the year is it the pricing you're relying on in terms of the improvement sequentially in gross margin? I know you lapped some of the input cost inflation started late last year.
And then I guess rated to that is the -- in terms of the cost savings coming through in terms of Project Next Century and that kind of thing do those pick up in the second half of the year? So the Project Next Century savings are pretty well completed.
We've completed that project and the savings were pretty much all flowing through.
In the back half of the year the gross margin is impacted by the higher commodity costs versus last year but with respect to the fourth quarter we really just begin to lap where we started having the higher cost last year.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could ask another question for J.P.
And just in relation to I guess as you see your investments behind the business from an advertising and promotional standpoint advertising is up less than you said as of last quarter but it sounds like you're getting more promotional as well.
So as you look at kind of the pressure against the consumer is that the same as what you thought before or just more money moving into promotional spending? Yes.
I think there's a combination of things and let me point a couple of things out about the cost.
There's the GRP efficiency which we've gained which is a piece of it because of a change we made there in the process.
And then one of the things that you don't see is the nonworking piece or the production cost piece which is a meaningful number for us this year as well.
So in terms of absolute GRPs I think that we're good there as we look at our current plan.
I think the way to think about the merchandising is is as we look at the total snacking continuum we've seen a significant increase in overall quality merchandising especially in some specific channels like C-store.
It's not that merchandising is necessarily at a deep discount versus where you might think it has been historically.
It's really more of a competitive environment and the range of choice that the consumer has.
So some of that snacking is being where -- I think if you look over the last couple of years a lot of that growth has been led by CMG.
I think what you're seeing in the current environment is that there's more on the floor and it's more competitive across total snacking.
So the choice the consumer has is broader versus absolute price being a driver.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> So any limitation to Hershey getting their fair share of space or more space especially in the C-store? Is that the intention of these new programs? No I don't -- no I don't think so.
I mean as you know we've got great coverage in C-store.
For us I think it was really about programming and what we saw with competitive programming particularly in the first quarter and in continuing into the second quarter.
I know there's some of the things that I talked about that we're going to be responding to and then of course our innovation is much more significant in the second half.
So we feel good about our stance but it's a competitive environment.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Actually just to follow-up on Chris's question.
If you look at the I guess the non-seasonal business and the instant consumable business the non -- the snacking the broader snacking competitors have -- there's been a lot of product -- new product innovation.
Doritos has definitely -- or Frito has definitely stepped up its activity on new products.
You've seen it in Nabisco.
So I guess my question is just how do you feel about your innovation pipeline not so much for this year but even kind of into '15? If we assume that there's going to be a lot more of this sort of stepped-up product innovation in that snacking continuum do you feel comfortable that you've got the new product pipeline to compete and what is -- could be a more competitive landscape? Yes.
Let me answer it in 2 different pieces.
First of all on the innovation front for our brands we've got what we believe is a very strong innovation pipeline in the second half.
We've talked about some of that and then of course we've added some incremental things.
So we think we're going to be competitive there.
If you really dig into the data of what's going on part of what we've seen which is different than what we've seen in the past is that our everyday business didn't do as well as we would have hoped it would have in this particular timeframe.
I think the forces and factors are some of the things that we talked about.
The independent C-store in CMG did not do as well and I think you have a consumer who's more challenged than in maybe the more modern C-store channel where gas is a part of the overall mix.
And then one of the unique things as we look at our data is remember last year Hostess Twinkie some of the bakery segment was not participating in the category.
This year they are.
And while they haven't participated at a significant price discount the percent of merchandising over the quarter that they had their products merchandised was very high.
So you saw meat snacks did very well.
Salty snacks did well.
Bakery did well and so the growth was really led there across the snacking continuum more so than it was with CMG and those are some things that we have to respond to as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> So as you go forward into '15 will you change anything about your -- the types of new products you want to roll out or make some of the -- some adjustments to your pipeline? I mean it's -- I guess to kind of put it succinctly it's just you had a new product innovation pipeline and I guess some of it's going to be back-half-loaded but it may not be matching up as well against some of the other sort of non-chocolate and non-candy competitors.
So is there something you have to do to tweak your innovation or...
Well I think -- yes I think you can say that in the first quarter as we kind of go back and keep score there.
But as we look at our overall growth algorithm of getting a minimum of 1 point of our growth from innovation and as you know we've been more in the 2-point range what we'll do is we feel very good about our pipeline.
We'll be pulling some things forward in that pipeline as it relates to the U.S.
business so we don't feel as though we don't have initiatives that can bring a lot of value to us and then that pipeline will also have a focus on the core.
And if you look -- again just recall from my remarks if you look at the first and second quarter we did well on Kit Kat.
We did well on Reese's.
We did well on Brookside and so we just need to make sure that we've got the right timing and phasing of that innovation.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the balance sheet and M&amp;A.
You were mentioned in press reports as a potential suitor for Russell Stover which obviously ended up going elsewhere I was just wondering if there was anything you could say anecdotally about how you evaluated that opportunity and why given the strength of your balance sheet you didn't pursue it more aggressively? And then just on a broader level can you remind us whether you have any specific valuation or return on capital criteria that come into play with when you're evaluating acquisitions? Or is it really only about strategic fit and accretion over sort of a 1- to 2-year period? Well I mean I think in terms of how we look at the business so I think the #1 thing we will look at is our strategic fit.
And so again when we look at acquisitions we're trying to find things that will be both in our focus markets and that will add to our ability to grow or ability -- or our capabilities.
Those capabilities could be portfolio.
They could be distribution or route to market.
Those are really our key factors.
Economically we use a discounted cash flow model and clearly look at the return and we use that to make sure we're disciplined in terms of the pricing.
With respect to the Russell Stover I really don't care to comment any further on that one.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
I mean just a quick sort of broader question on category trends.
Obviously there's a number competitive and macro factors and you've highlighted those.
But just wondering based on your segmentation work and your observations on the category is there any evidence that broader health and wellness trends concerns are having at this point a measurable impact on the category even though that historically hasn't been the case? We don't think so.
I think that there's broadly consumers you can see over time have changing a relationships with food.
If you look at total snacking snacking continues to grow as a total category.
And then one of the things that we've talked about is if you look at the core confectionary category people come to the category as a reward-me category.
They know it's indulgent.
It's not a food group.
They tend to -- it tends to represent about 2% of total caloric intake.
So it's self-regulating in many respects.
So as we think about the future we're thinking about the total snacking continuum.
That can be everything from indulgent to more functional but remember the chocolate segment in the category really continues to do well.
It's just simply in the last quarter that wasn't led as largely by us as it has been in the previous time frames.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Quick question on elasticity.
I guess I'm curious what you are sort of modeling for elasticity to the price increase.
And I guess more importantly if it's different from kind of what you built in the last time around when I think elasticity was -- frankly it ended up being a lot more modest than you expected and certainly less than kind of a one-to-one relationship.
And then as part of that J.P.
you'd mentioned in your prepared remarks that given the price increase you'd expect volume to be lower in the second half of the year.
I didn't know if that meant lower year-over-year or just lower than you previously would have been had you not taken pricing? Yes.
So to answer the second part it's really versus a planning stance without pricing is what I would say there.
Andrew we always model a one-to-one ratio on all of our pricing.
You're correct in that the last couple of pricing moves we've seen with a significant increase in advertising spend in the category which reminded consumers why they participated in the category we experienced something more like 0.6 0.7 conversion rate.
And so the things that we're talking about would have the modeling of one-to-one.
Obviously I'd like to see us do better than that and we'll keep you posted on what that looks like.
So we would hope to see conversion with shorter timelines and faster conversion rates but the modeling is one-to-one.
Research Division</strong> Right that's very helpful.
And then just the last one typically you've taken pricing with an intention to protect your gross margin percentage as opposed to just gross margin dollars.
I assume that's sort of the intent as you think out to '15 and beyond but I just wanted to run that by you.
You have it correct.
Our model is to protect our margin and invest in our brands.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess first is a more detailed question.
In the press release you said that the FX was -- headwind was greater than you expected? And Dave you said it was in line? So we want to clarify which is correct? Sure.
I think where we wind up there is that as it affects the international business that was a bit greater than what we expected.
And as it related to North America Canada was a little bit more favorable than we expected.
Research Division</strong> So you mean Canada was more favorable? Canada was a little bit more favorable.
International was a little bit more unfavorable.
So on balance we were pretty close to what we expected.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess this is kind of like what did you know and when did you know it? But when you last gave guidance you had -- you expected sales to still be in line with your target and gross margins you had moderated but you still expected them to be I guess kind of flattish.
And now in your guidance you've included the price increase.
So obviously the price increase could be material to top line as well as your gross margin calculation.
So kind of what -- I guess what -- were you anticipating a price increase but didn't tell us last quarter when you gave guidance versus today? No.
I mean our guidance as of the last quarter was basically what we expected at that time and not anticipating the price increase.
As we've said we really don't expect the price increase to have a significant impact in 2014.
I mean in the fourth quarter we'll see some instant consumable pricing and some of that will be offset by volume but again given the elasticities we don't see much impact.
The change in the gross margin versus the last guidance is really about the continued high pricing in dairy costs and also the mix that we saw in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question I'll pass it on.
Can you remind me is gross margin a part of your compensation package because obviously that piece is coming in well below your expectation this year? And so my question is really geared towards your comp accrual and would have kind of a setback to normal in 2015 be a headwind we should kind of consider? I mean I realize the year's only half over but gross margins are obviously below plan.
I guess kind of 2 points.
With respect to your first one and we do disclose our metrics in the proxy.
Gross margin actually gross margin level is not a part of our comp program but it's a key part of how we get to our earnings and so that's how I would address that.
The second part of your question as you're looking at 2015 we're not really ready to give 2015 guidance.
But what I would say to you is that as we've taken the price increase we've looked at our gross margin as part of that.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Moskow with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to know if Mars' price increase that they just announced it's 7%.
Yours was 8%.
Is there any -- have you done any math to determine whether their pricing will be a little bit below yours when it's all said and done? And then secondly I wanted to know if I could kind of think again about the international growth algorithm.
You're probably still mid-teens this year but if Brazil is -- the category seems to be growing at a very low rate.
Mexico has stagnated.
China is doing obviously very well but that -- China seems to be the only real driver of growth.
So excluding the acquisition for a second what are your thinking -- what is your thinking about 2015? Does the macro have to get better in Mexico and Brazil for that algorithm to work? Well I think there's one component that you didn't talk about and we have a meaningful export business as a part of that international business.
So it's not all about just the focus markets but we also have a very good structured export business that continues to do very well and that's also a really profitable business.
I think it's important to keep in perspective in Brazil that it's a relative -- we have a relatively modest size business there and we continue to build distribution and presence on shelves.
So a lot of our potential there is really around increasing the portfolio size and it's really increasing brand presence.
So those are fundamentals that we believe that as we continue to execute against that we'll continue to grow there.
So I think while a lot of those macro things are important we also have another lever that works well for us.
In terms of the Mexican business we've continued to grow our chocolate share there.
There's some macro-economic issues that seem to be impacting the consumer there.
So I can't really predict going forward what I see there in terms of pace of recovery in terms of the total market.
But I think those markets will get better versus worse and then I think we will continue to do well in China and as well as these other markets.
Just remember within our strategies as we talk about being focused on specific geographies it's also about expanding the portfolio.
In a lot of these markets we have a very modest portfolio still at this point in time.
So again I think the fundamentals of how we grow are very much in our favor and I think that's why more broadly we could feel optimistic about the continued growth process in international businesses.
Research Division</strong> And the Mars question? You've seen what I've seen in the general marketplace.
So I can't really comment or provide any analysis on what they may or may not have done but I'm sure that will reveal itself as time passes.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up.
Can you say how much your exports are up this year and whether that's higher or lower than historical? What I can do is I don't have the number right in front of me.
But if you want to call Mark we're more than happy to provide you specifically that information.
I just don't have the number at the -- on the top of my mind.
I apologize for that.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Goldman with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> As we think about your price increase and the window you've given customers to perhaps buy in a little more than they usually would over the next few weeks how should we think about the cadence of your shipments the next 2 quarters? I assume it's reasonable to model some 3Q sell and a reversal in 4Q.
Is that accurate? And can you help us on the magnitude of that perhaps? Well I think given the timing of the price increase and how it executes I wouldn't expect to see a big swing between the third and fourth quarter because the buy-in period here would run into August and would ship pretty well clean out in September.
Research Division</strong> And then question for J.P.
on advertising.
You and your predecessor Dave West had a really strong commitment to advertising.
For a long time it's worked and I guess that's what make this year's lower ad spending as a percent of sales in terms of growth a bit confusing.
And I guess my question is this if you believe strongly in brand building and it's been effective in the past why not just say "Okay this won't be the best year in our history.
Maybe we grow earnings below our long-term range.
A lot of companies are experiencing that.
But we're not going to back off our principles of innovation and marketing just to perhaps at least from the outside it looks like making our numbers." So why not take that hit this year keep brand-building high especially in this competitive environment and really stick to your long-term philosophy? Well I do believe we're sticking to our long-term philosophy.
I think part of what is going to happening is is you're going to continue to see the balance over the first and second half as we support innovation.
We've also gotten a number of our brands more towards the top of the curve of our advertising efficiency.
So it doesn't require necessarily the same levels of increase.
It's really much more around the mix of where you apply some of that advertising.
So if you were to really look at where we've rebalanced some of that advertising you would see some brand individual brands that have gotten some pretty significant increases in advertising.
Maybe some others that have been deemphasized the frequency has changed but I don't think our philosophy has changed and we'll continue to reassess over time if we believe we're doing the right thing or not.
And the fact that we want to be a knowledge-based brand building company is at the core of everything we think about and how we want to act.
So I may come to a different conclusion in the way that you're describing it but the philosophy hasn't changed.
Your next question comes from the line of David Driscoll with Citi.
Research Division</strong> J.P.
just wanted to ask a little bit about the second half sales growth.
You made some comments here but I want to go over this because I think this is a fairly critical issue.
Second half sales growth must accelerate to reach the full year growth of about 5%.
Given first half performance at 3.4% really I want to just understand what gives you confidence in this acceleration? And frankly is this just a high bar kind of given after first quarter in a reduction in guidance here.
I think you might understand that confidence on the outside is going to be a little bit low so your answer here I think is reasonably critical.
Yes.
Well so there's a couple of things.
Remember that in the second half of the year 68% of our seasonal growth occurs then.
We have visibility to what those numbers are and that seasonal growth is ahead of what the average company growth would be.
So we know that we have very strong seasonal business booked for the second half of the year.
We believe that the innovation that we have is both meaningful and should be effective for us.
So those are big contributors as well.
And we continue to have we think in our international business where we're rolling out Reese's that that's going to continue to work hard for us.
And then the incremental advertising that we've added with the king-size event I mentioned earlier we have a great cross promotion program with Coke and Reese's and a couple of things that we haven't talked about yet.
So I think David we're really lining up to take the things we learned in the first half.
The take to make is over 6% and we know that but we feel good about the actions that we're taking in terms of the competitiveness and understanding of some of the things that went on in the first and second quarter.
So I have confidence that we're going to get there.
Research Division</strong> Two follow ups.
On international I believe last quarter your guidance for international on a full year basis was 15% and you've reiterated that today.
But apologies but it sounded like in your description of international things were weaker.
So I'm just trying to reconcile kind of the tone of your international comments in Mexico and Brazil versus the fact that the international guidance is unchanged.
Well I think -- Dave and I can both respond to this.
I think what we're saying about Mexico and Brazil is pretty consistent with what we've said last quarter and we continue to experience good growth in China.
And then the exports piece of our business as I mentioned to you continues to do well also.
So to reiterate I don't think there's change there.
Certainly I was very transparent in terms of some of the challenges in terms of FX and then the consumer challenges in Mexico.
But from a programming standpoint and a takeaway standpoint I think the results are pretty good.
Yes.
I mean in the first quarter I mean I think we laid out the challenge in Mexico and also the challenge in Brazil and we said we would see some sequential improvement as we go through the year and we definitely saw that in the second quarter.
So our results there were pretty much in line with what we we're expecting.
Research Division</strong> If I could sneak just a final one in the innovation on Ice Breakers and Brookside am I correct that you have shifted this from the third quarter into the fourth quarter? And if that's true can you explain why you did that? Well the only thing that has had a shift on timing is Cool Blast.
It really had a couple of factors.
We continue to be finalizing perfecting the start-up and formula and then the other part of it is the capacity issue where we just want to make sure we had the right capacity in place.
It's not going to affect anything else and we feel good about going ahead there.
But those are some normal kinds of start-up things nothing remarkable.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So I've got 2 here.
I'll just rattle them off at the same time.
First if there's some concern in immediate consumption channels that consumers are swamping into other categories where promotional activity is elevated as you raised prices how do you make sure that that shift doesn't accelerate? And then the second question lower advertising more trade promo bringing back limited editions just feels very dj vu mid-2000s which obviously didn't end very well.
So can you maybe draw some parallels or contrast of why -- what's similar what's different and why this doesn't end as poorly as that one did? Yes.
Well let me -- let's try to do everything we can to not compare the fact that we're doing a limited edition to the fact that we did a lot of limited editions back in 2005.
So in 2005 as we've discussed quite openly many times those limited-editions really became our innovation and that's really not what we do at this point in this era.
And so -- but if you have a limited edition and it's limited the news is not a bad thing.
It's a merchandising event.
So that's how I think you ought to probably think about characterizing that.
We know that the category has been pretty inelastic over time.
We've been able to successfully convert price.
The consumers' been able to convert it again.
I think what we have to observe over time is what's happening with the frequency in some of those areas or channels where the consumer may not be participating in the recovery as those at the top end of the economic pyramid.
So I think that it will be as we've done in the past.
We expect conversion to be good and the phenomena that I talked about in the independent C-store probably is not going to be that connected to what's happening in terms of the price and the pricing most likely would affect the entire category and not individual brands.
So I don't think to the consumer it's going to look that different.
What I would add is in the things that we've gone through and we've talked about in responding to the situation from the first part of the year is that there's activities that we're putting right around our base products.
And so that -- the limited editions have a very limited focused role and that's just to obtaining some level of merchandising and news.
And as J.P.
said the big difference is that we really are focused.
The innovation now is really focused on more meaningful and sustainable activities.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Feeney with Athlos Research.
I wanted to dig in get another go with this price increase margin elasticity question going into next year.
When you took your price increase in 2011 I mean as bad as things are today I mean the unemployment rate was higher then.
It was just wasn't a great macro environment in general in 2011.
If I remember correctly gas prices were going up at that time.
So I guess -- you've talked a lot about the macro environment but I guess what gives you -- what makes you think that the elasticity reaction consumers will have in this really tough macro-environment would be any different than what they had back in 2011 particularly given that your -- it seems your leading competitor is sort of following suit here? Yes I don't think that it will have big differences than what we've seen.
As I've said before the planning that we've always done around these is the one-to-one ratio.
I think your point is a good one in terms of how we should expect the category to behave this time versus other times.
And the history of the category over many many decades is it is a pretty inelastic category and it cycles pricing really effectively and that's exactly what I would hope this time.
I don't want to -- the thing that I want you to take away from this call is is that we think about their business.
There have been a number of different things over the last 6 to 9 months whether it's been trips weather all of these other things.
Largely we don't know if those are one-offs.
If there's some weather effect they were real.
But what we know is that we have fundamental execution opportunities planning opportunities around how we schedule the promotion and merchandising activities we have and so we really want to kind of put a number of these things aside.
We do know in certain parts of classes of trade there's a consumer that continues to be challenged.
But we're also seeing in the snacking categories some items with some pretty significant pricing.
They've been doing very very well.
So I think in the end while there may be some people unfortunately who are really impacted I think the real drivers will be around the things we know how to do best and that's execution.
Your final question comes from the line of Eric Larson with Janney Montgomery.
One quick follow-up question.
In your price increase that you have going forward here and in your allowed buy-in to your customers are you protecting the margins on your fourth quarter seasonal sales for your customers? Yes so the answer would be yes.
And if you just think about how it works so the instant consumables tend -- those prices tend to go up almost immediately on the shelf.
Merchandising that's been schedule tends to also -- you'd agree tends to be protected and then the seasons are protected all the way out to what will be Halloween of next year.
So the answer to your question is yes.
Thank you very much for joining us for today's conference call and we'll be available for any follow-up questions that you may have.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Phyllis and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Hershey Company's Third Quarter 2014 Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Mark Pogharian you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to The Hershey Company's Third Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
J.P.
Bilbrey President and CEO; Dave Tacka Senior Vice President and CFO; and I will represent Hershey on this morning's call.
We also welcome those of you listening via the webcast.
Let me remind everyone listening that today's conference call may contain statements which are forward looking.
These statements are based on current expectations which are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements because of factors such as those listed in this morning's press release and in our 10-K for 2013 filed with the SEC.
If you have not seen the press release a copy is posted on our corporate website in the Investor Relations section.
Included in the press release is a consolidated balance sheet and a summary of consolidated statements of income prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Within the Notes section of the press release we have provided adjusted pro forma reconciliations of select income statement line items quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.
The company uses these non-GAAP measures as key metrics for evaluating performance internally.
These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP.
Rather the company believes the presentation of earnings excluding certain items provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations.
As a result we will discuss 2014 third quarter results excluding net pretax charges of $13.8 million or $0.05 per share diluted related to a noncash trade impairment charge cost associated with Project Next Century a net gain related to the Shanghai Golden Monkey transaction and non-service-related pension income.
Our discussion of any future projections will also exclude the impact of these charges.
With that out of the way let me turn the call over to J.P.
Bilbrey.
Thanks Mark and good morning to everyone on the phone and webcast.
As expected net sales retail takeaway and market share sequentially improved versus our first half of the year trends.
Our U.S.
CMG or candy mint and gum retail takeaway in the xAOC plus convenience store channels increased 3.3% and was about double the category growth rate.
We gained market share in nearly every 4-week quad during the quarter and across every segment.
That's chocolate non-chocolate gum and mint.
Where we focused our investments results were good.
Last quarter we stated that there would be increased levels of in-store activity in the convenience store channel.
I'll provide more detail in a moment but C-store merchandising and programming generated 4% retail takeaway in this important channel.
I was also pleased with our marketplace performance in large mass and value channels.
However store traffic in the food channel was irregular in the third quarter.
Our market share in the food channel increased 0.3 points in the third quarter but category and Hershey growth was less than the historical growth rate of the category.
While preliminary Halloween sell-through in all channels including food is tracking with expectations Halloween orders merchandising and programming were executed in the marketplace and we believe it's the right mix of seasonal-specific support that sets the stage for another winning season.
However food channel nonseasonal candy during the third quarter and into October was soft.
As a result unfavorable product sales mix pressured profitability.
Similar to what we did in the C-stores we have food channel-specific activity in the fourth quarter that we believe will improve upon these trends.
As was the case last quarter broader snack category growth and in-store activity was present across many channels although it tempered in Q3 versus the first half of the year increase.
Given this backdrop I was pleased with the Hershey-specific programs by pack type and channel that was executed in the third quarter enabling us to compete effectively and generate retail takeaway of 3.3%.
As it relates to the pricing action we announced in July in the fourth quarter we expect consumers will see higher nonseasonal everyday price points.
As such we expect an initial price elasticity impact to result in lower volume in both the fourth quarter and 2015.
We will work with our retail customers to ensure that the implementation of the price increase is supported with greater levels of advertising and the right mix of customer trade promotions and merchandising to reduce the impact of volume elasticity.
As it relates to the buy-in we estimate that about 0.75 points of net sales growth in the third quarter was attributable to volume which normally would've shipped in the fourth quarter.
And I'm excited that we completed the initial closing of Shanghai Golden Monkey.
The strength of their portfolio manufacturing expertise and overall distribution capabilities especially within the traditional trade is an opportunity for us to leverage scale to make the iconic brands of both our companies even more powerful.
This acquisition will make China Hershey's second largest market by the year-end 2015 with anticipated net sales of around $500 million.
Now for some marketplace performance.
In the third quarter Hershey's CMG growth in the xAOC+C channels was 2x the category growth rate.
Specifically the CMG category increased plus 1.6%.
Gum continues to be a drag on total CMG performance and excluding it candy and mints was up a combined 2.3%.
Total Hershey CMG retail takeaway for the third quarter in channels that account for about 90% of our U.S.
retail business increased plus 3.3% with market share up 0.5 points.
As a reminder this represents xAOC+C store data consisting of the food drug MassX and C-store channels plus the inclusion of Walmart and Partial Dollar Club and Military channels.
Third quarter xAOC+C chocolate category growth was plus 2.3%.
Given the upcoming Halloween and holiday season we expect markedly greater chocolate category growth over the remainder of the year.
Hershey's xAOC+C chocolate retail takeaway was 3% an acceleration from the 2% June year-to-date amount resulting in a Q3 chocolate market share gain of 0.3 points.
We expect to build on our chocolate marketplace performance momentum over the remainder of the year given our strong seasonal plans to launch Brookside Crunchy Clusters and the new look and packaging of Hershey's Miniatures take-home packaged chocolate.
While early the new advertising support on Hershey's Miniatures is showing positive results.
Third quarter non-chocolate candy or NCC category growth was plus 1.8%.
Hershey's NCC retail sales increased to 2.7% with market share up 0.1 point.
We're pleased with our Lancaster brand performance.
However we're lapping some Jolly Rancher innovation and the successful year-ago summer Twizzler promotion.
Lancaster continues to show very positive results and after 8 months in the market is the leader within the soft caramels category.
Trial and repeat is in line with expectations and it's revitalizing the roughly $250 million caramel category that's up about 20% this year.
Lancaster sales were solid in the summer but lower versus Q1 due to seasonality.
We expect sales to be strong in the fall and winter as merchandising support is executed in the marketplace.
The aforementioned nonseasonal chocolate and non-chocolate activity should benefit the food channels where as I mentioned overall store traffic continues to be mixed.
And we continue to do well within the gum and mint categories.
Specifically our Q3 gum and mint retail takeaway within the xAOC+C universe was up 16% and 6% respectively.
As a result our gum market share increased by 0.8 points and we now have a 5.1% share of the market.
Our mint market share increased by 0.1 points expanding our segment-leading position to 39.5%.
In the C-store channel Q3 CMG category growth was up 3.4%.
Hershey's Q3 C-store retail takeaway increased 4% driven by solid candy and mint performance resulting in a 0.2 market share gain in this channel.
I was pleased with our C-store chocolate retail takeaway of 3.5%.
The programs I mentioned last quarter such as the King of Summer program the Coca-Cola and Reese's promotion and the 7-Eleven Big Gulp and King Size promotion drove our solid performance.
In the fourth quarter and into 2015 we have C-store merchandising and programming as well as innovations such as seasonal-shaped Reese's products and the 2015 launches of Kit Kat White Minis Reese's Crunchy Cup and Ice Breakers Cool Blasts Chews that should enable us to win in the C-store channel.
I'd also like to provide you with an update on our category segment whose marketplace performance is excluded from the CMG Nielsen database.
The Hershey's Spreads launch is relatively in line with expectations.
Trial is progressing and in the third quarter one of our larger retailers the Hershey's Spreads' instant consumable pack type was the company's fifth-largest SKU at the front end.
Reese's Spread in a jar ships in Q4 and the instant consumable will launch in 2015.
Our entry into chocolate spreads is driving category growth of almost 20% this year.
As a result we're getting good collaboration from our retail partners.
Now moving to international.
As expected similar to last year's profile third quarter international net sales increased in the teens up 18.4%.
China continues to do well and is the driver of our overall international net sales growth.
China chocolate category growth increased 11% in Q3.
The category is developing as anticipated with instant consumable and take-home growth both up double digits.
Hershey third quarter retail takeaway was about 4x the category growth rate.
For Nielsen our year-to-date market share is around 10% driven by the Hershey's and Kisses brands which have gained 0.9 and 0.7 market share points this year.
We've carried our momentum into the fourth quarter and have begun shipping Reese's.
It's been a milestone year for us in China and we're on track to achieve about $200 million in China chocolate net sales in 2014.
Third quarter net sales growth in Mexico and Brazil were slightly below our estimates.
In the modern trade chocolate category growth in Mexico was up about 4%.
Hershey Mexico chocolate retail takeaway was up 6% resulting in a modern trade chocolate market share gain of 0.4 points.
Volume has been gradually improving throughout the year as consumers get used to the higher prices.
Trends in Brazil have improved versus the soft start to the year with third quarter net sales in both U.S.
dollars and local currency up mid-single digits on a percentage basis versus last year.
Year-to-date the Brazil chocolate category as well as Hershey retail takeaway is up 1%.
Looking at the subsegment of chocolate wafer candy Hershey's Mais retail takeaway is up 16% year-to-date.
We'll look to build on our momentum here as it's a unique form in this competitive market.
Over the years we've also had success in growing our international export business.
Our products can be found in over 70 countries in both developed and emerging markets.
We have a profitable export business model and targeted balanced growth with an objective of maintaining the right level of distributor inventory so consumers experience fresh product.
Given macroeconomic challenges in some of these markets demand has tempered.
Our go-to-market philosophy of shipping to consumption applies to these markets as well.
As a result we now expect full year international net sales growth excluding the contribution from Golden Monkey to increase low double digits.
We're focused on the long term and believe the aforementioned challenges facing international export consumers is a short-term issue.
Dave will provide you with additional financial details of our Q3 results and our full year outlook so let me now provide you with some of my closing thoughts.
Macroeconomic challenges persist putting pressure on consumers and retailers.
Over the remainder of the year and into 2015 we have targeted innovation advertising merchandising and programming to address the needs of consumers by channel and pack type.
In the fourth quarter holiday is tracking as expected and we're excited about the launch of Brookside Crunchy Clusters Reese's Crunchy Cup and Reese's Spreads.
Along with the carryover benefit of our fourth quarter innovation in 2015 we're bringing a lot of variety news and excitement to the category with the new product launches of Kit Kat White Minis Hershey's Caramels Ice Breakers Cool Blasts Chews Reese's Spreads instant consumable as well as some other yet-to-be-announced new products.
These initiatives will be supported with greater level of advertising and related consumer marketing that's expected to increase in 2015 at a rate greater than sales growth.
These initiatives should position us and to deliver against our objectives.
I remain optimistic about our future.
Globally the investments we're making in our scale chocolate brands and go-to-market capabilities are having the desired effect.
Kisses and Hershey's are gaining momentum and are true global brands with around 45% and 25% of total brand sales now achieved outside the U.S.
Reese's is rolling out in a measured and well-supported pace in China Mexico and Brazil and initial consumer response is in line with expectations.
And Brookside continues to post strong double-digit sales growth and tests well in our international markets.
So there's a lot to be excited about.
We have plans in place that positions us to win wherever we compete.
Our brand-building model is evolving and we expect to grow market share across all of our key markets.
We remain focused and know what we need to do to succeed and increase shareholder value.
I'll now turn it over to Dave who will provide you with the financial details.
Dave? Thank you J.P.
Good morning to everyone on the phone and on the webcast.
Third quarter net sales of $1.96 billion increased 5.8% versus last year generating adjusted earnings per share diluted of $1.05 an increase of 1% from last year.
Organic net sales growth in the quarter was 6% and was driven primarily by volume.
Foreign currency exchange rates primarily involving Canada were a 20 basis point headwind.
Sales were driven by strong Halloween seasonal growth new products and instant consumable items in the convenience store channel.
Core brand and new product volume growth contribution to net sales were roughly equal in the quarter.
By geography net sales increase included growth in North America and international markets of 4.2% and 18.4% respectively.
Turning to margins.
As expected adjusted gross margin declined in the quarter driven by higher input costs primarily cocoa and dairy; greater levels of trade support for in-store merchandising and programming; and other costs related to executing the price increase.
However the 240 basis point decline in gross margin was greater than our forecast as a result of a less favorable sales mix higher-than-forecast freight and warehousing costs related to the price increase and higher costs related to aged inventory packaging material write-offs and the timing of certain fixed cost deferrals.
In the fourth quarter gross margin is expected to increase as the company begins to lap the higher input costs it began to incur in the fourth quarter of a year ago.
However as a result of the higher supply chain costs and expected lower sales volumes we now expect full year gross margin to decline about 75 basis points versus 2013.
Adjusted earnings before interest and taxes in the third quarter increased 1% versus last year generating adjusted EBIT margin of 19.4% a 90 basis point decline versus last year.
The decrease was due to the lower gross margin.
During the quarter advertising and related consumer marketing expense increased 1% while selling and administrative expenses declined 1%.
As we stated last quarter GRPs which are gross rating points or impressions will be up mid-single digits on a percentage basis versus last year.
Now let me provide a brief update on our international business.
Similar to last year 2014 international sales growth is back half-weighted given the timing of distribution gains new product launches and seasonal growth.
Third quarter international net sales increased 18.4% slightly below our estimates primarily in Mexico and certain export markets.
Net sales in China were solid and were in line with the retail takeaway that J.P.
referenced.
Plans are in place to generate similar results in the fourth quarter that should result in full year China chocolate net sales of around $200 million.
In Brazil third quarter net sales on a reported and constant currency basis increased about 5% versus last year.
In Mexico third quarter net sales on a reported and constant currency basis declined about 4% versus last year.
Our businesses in both Mexico and Brazil are improving albeit slowly.
As expected the macroeconomic operating environment in both countries remains sluggish and as a result we continue to expect net sales in 2014 to be slightly below the prior year.
As J.P.
mentioned fourth quarter order flow and demand in select international markets has tempered given macroeconomic headwinds.
As a result we now expect full year net sales growth outside the U.S.
and Canada to increase low double digits versus our previous estimate of about a 15% increase.
Note that this excludes the contribution from Shanghai Golden Monkey.
Moving down the P&amp;L.
Third quarter interest expense of $21 million was about the same as last year.
For the full year we continue to expect interest expense to be around $85 million.
The adjusted tax rate for the third quarter was 34.8% in line with our estimate.
For the full year we continue to expect the adjusted tax rate to be around 34.5%.
For the third quarter of 2014 weighted average shares outstanding on a diluted basis were approximately $224 million leading to adjusted earnings per share diluted of $1.05.
Turning now to the balance sheet and cash flow.
At the end of the third quarter net trading capital increased versus last year's third quarter by $224 million $107 million of which is related to acquisitions.
Accounts receivable was higher by $127 million primarily as a result of the Golden Monkey acquisition and the higher sales levels.
Our global accounts receivable aging remains extremely current.
Inventory was higher by $138 million as a result of the Golden Monkey and China manufacturing facility acquisitions together with some higher raw material inventory levels in North America.
Accounts payable increased by $41 million primarily as a result of the acquisitions.
Capital additions including software were $83 million in the third quarter.
For the year we now expect total capital expenditures to be about $360 million to $370 million lower than our previous estimate of $380 million to $390 million primarily due to timing related to the manufacturing facility we're building in Johor Malaysia.
Depreciation and amortization was $53 million in the third quarter in line with our estimates.
During the third quarter the company repurchased $75 million of outstanding shares against the $250 million repurchase authorization that was approved in February of 2014.
Additionally $31 million of common shares were repurchased to replace shares issued in connection with the exercise of stock options.
All $106 million of acquired shares were repurchased in the open market.
During the quarter dividends paid were $115 million.
Cash and short-term investments at the end of the third quarter of $575 million was in line with our forecasts.
Seasonal working capital requirements combined with closing on the Shanghai Golden Monkey purchase at the end of September caused us to take on approximately $300 million of commercial paper debt in the U.S.
that we will pay off in early November.
The balance of the short-term debt increase relates to the Golden Monkey acquisition and the needs in our other international markets.
The company remains well positioned to fund our working capital needs capital expenditure requirements and acquisitions.
Now to summarize.
We made progress in the third quarter as net sales retail takeaway and market share improved versus the first half of the year.
Halloween and holiday are tracking nicely.
The company's chocolate business in China continues to be strong and is the driver of our international sales growth.
However challenges in nonseasonal sales growth particularly in the U.S.
food channel combined with the pushback launch of Ice Breakers Cool Blasts Chews and weakness in certain international export markets have caused us to lower our organic sales growth projection for 2014.
We now expect 2014 net sales to increase around 4.75% including the impact of foreign currency exchange rate and the contribution from Golden Monkey sales of about 0.75 points.
Given year-to-date results combined with higher supply chain costs unfavorable sales mix and lower sales volumes than previously forecast for the fourth quarter we now expect full year gross margin to decline about 75 basis points versus 2013.
Total selling marketing and administrative expenses will be about in line with a year ago as the company leverages investments made in go-to-market capabilities established over the last few years.
As a result the company anticipates 2014 adjusted earnings per share diluted growth for the full year to be around 8%.
The impact of Shanghai Golden Monkey in 2014 is minimal given the late September closing date.
As J.P.
summarized we have a solid pipeline of targeted innovation merchandising and programming that should drive pack type and channel growth in 2015.
Additionally advertising and related consumer marketing expense is expected to increase at a rate greater than net sales growth.
We're focused on the plans and investments to drive top line growth and believe these initiatives will resonate with consumers and be a catalyst that enables the CMG category to increase within its historical growth rate of 3% to 4%.
There are a couple of other items expected to impact 2015 sales growth.
The company has signed a definitive agreement to purchase The Allan Candy Company in Canada for approximately $28 million.
This company co-manufactures products such as Jolly Rancher Hard Candy and Lancaster Caramels for Hershey.
It also has other confectionery product sales of around $30 million.
The primary goal of the acquisition is to increase capacity and manufacturing capability for Hershey's sweets and refreshment products.
The transaction will close upon completion of regulatory reviews which we expect to be by the end of 2014.
We will also make product line changes in India that will negatively impact sales growth by about 40 basis points.
These changes include the termination of edible oil sales as our brand license expires.
We will also rationalize certain other low-margin products as we focus on our product portfolio.
As a result of these we expect 2015 net sales to increase about 7% to 9% including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates and a contribution from acquisitions of around 2.5 points.
We continue to be a gross-margin-focused company and expect that the previously announced pricing action as well as productivity and cost savings will result in gross margin expansion in 2015.
We expect increases in advertising and direct marketing expenses to increase faster than sales and continued SG&amp;A cost discipline.
The resulting growth in adjusted earnings per share diluted is expected to be in the 9% to 11% range.
Thank you for your time this morning.
J.P.
Mark and I will now take any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So I guess the question just looking forward into 2015 and trying to get a sense for -- there's a lot of moving parts and just trying to get a sense for how aggressive your underlying plan is for next year.
So if I kind of think about headwinds and tailwinds this year probably the biggest hurdle was that gross margins came in below expectations.
And even though you had sales softer than expected in nonseasonal now in the food channel and you've had some softness in the export business the biggest sort of hurdle from an earnings perspective was gross margins coming in below expectations.
So can you just kind of frame for us as you think about high end low end of your guidance range for next year some of the puts and takes that are important in terms of getting you to the top end versus the low end and whether this guide for '15 maybe has some more flexibility or some more caution into it than maybe what you were looking at when you started '14? Okay.
Well Bryan I'll start with that.
When we look at the gross margin and the issues for this year the biggest issue really wound up being around our commodities and the dairy costs and we've really addressed that with our pricing action that we've taken.
In addition we did here in this quarter have some additional issues around some obsolescence things and we'll be able to fix those.
I mean essentially we didn't adjust to some of our production schedules as quickly as we probably should have in light of how the sales were changing.
So fundamentally overall we continue to be on track with our productivity initiatives and so we expect that we'll be able to continue to improve gross margin in 2015 and stay true to our business model where the margin will also increase enough to be able to be increasing our advertising faster than our sales growth next year which is part of our plan to support the price increase.
Bryan I would just add to what Dave said that I think one of the learnings we have from this year is really around how we executed by channel and some of the specificity of what we were seeing in channel.
So I think from -- if I were able to change one thing this year would really be around our quality merch on a channel-specific basis.
So we're going to be doing more precision marketing as we go forward.
And what you saw in the third quarter is the place is based on planning cycles where we were able to do that as we knew we were going to sequentially improve through the year in North America.
We saw good results from doing that.
So I think you'll see us ensuring that we're getting the right merchandising levels by channel to be able to win in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> So is it fair to say as we kind of look into '15 that your plan doesn't assume that there is going to be a real imminent reacceleration of growth in the food channel? You're still expecting that the export business in the next year will be soft.
I guess you're expecting gross margins will expand but it's -- you're not -- some of these issues that sort of have hit you especially in the second half this year it's not like you're expecting an immediate reacceleration incorporated in the guidance that you gave us.
No I think the things that are in our control we will be doing what I hope to be a better job of making sure that we've got the right support by channel to continue to win share which we're doing that.
I think there's caution globally around just the consumer environment in general.
So there's probably some of that in our thinking but I think we'll be executing very aggressively.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Feeney with Athlos Research.
So I guess following up a little bit.
So if I read you right you have 4.5% to 6.5% organic net sales growth for next year which if I'm getting the -- and correct me if I'm wrong here if I'm getting the price contribution if I look at the list price the region that's in that's essentially looking for no volume growth for next year? And the last time you implemented a price increase you did see volumes drop off as to be expected but maybe a little bit less substantially.
I guess in light of a little bit better consumer spending situation now than in say 2011 if you could just -- first of all let me know if I have my math right about that for 2015 and I guess a little bit more detail on why that is.
Yes I think as you think about 2015 what I tried to point out in the comments is that we're doing some product line changes in India that have about 40 basis points headwind into the sales growth.
So I think overall in organic without that we would still expect to be in about that 5% to 7% range.
And so I think for next year what we're looking at is we're looking at price to be about 6.5% and we're probably -- depending on how the sell-through and the conversions go we would expect to have volume declines against that of somewhere from 0% to 2%.
And of course we would be being helped with that with some of the innovation and with the advertising and the other things that we would be typically doing to respond to the price increase.
Got you.
And I guess that leads into -- the last time you took a big price increase in '11 '12 you raised ad spending over that period pretty dramatically yet -- I mean relative to sales.
But that was off a much lower base and we've talked about how maybe you're at a more sustainable level now.
Do you -- would you see ad spending as a percent of sales growing next year? Well I think that what you would see is that we'll continue to probably spend in a range of call it 2x sales growth.
If you remember when we were growing advertising in the previous price increase it was off of a very low base.
As you point out we feel as though at our current level of spending we're probably at the right level to support the brand.
So we always model these at about a 1:1 ratio.
That's how we've modeled this one.
We've done better in some of these but that's how we model it and that's how we build it into our plan.
And just one last detailed question.
That little impairment you took what brand was that? Or what region did that come from at least? What -- we have to do impairment tests on our intangibles each year and this is particularly related to the Mauna Loa macadamia nut brand.
Your next question comes from the line of David Palmer with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> You hinted that Hershey will be pushing back against the competitive in-store merchandising you're seeing particularly in C-store channels and particularly with the instant consumables.
There was king-size display activity you said you're rolling out your limited editions.
How would you say this incremental merchandising is working for you so far? Yes I think we're very pleased with the results we got in both 3Q in C-stores.
We saw it in Mass and a couple of other channels where we were able to increase our quality merch.
We got really good results.
The planning cycles there and our ability to respond are shorter than some of the other channels.
So if we go back and analyze the first half of the year and some of the areas where frankly we -- you could say we got beat or we didn't merchandise at the levels we thought we should we didn't get the results we wanted.
And so we're really correcting for that and we felt really good about the results we were able to get.
And so we're building that into our plans going forward.
And then of course as you know in the first half we weren't as chocolate-driven as we are in the second half and that's made a difference as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> And one final question.
On the resealable pouches it seems that Hershey over several years here has been rolling out the -- that pouch-packaged Minis and Pieces and putting some advertising and merchandising activity behind that per brand.
York has been the most recent benefit of this.
Do you see that packaging rollout continuing to hit more and more of your business? Or is that benefit perhaps running its course as you get across the brands? Well I think one way to think about it is we see package innovation that can support occasions as a really important insight.
So I think what you'll see from us is that we have a number of package innovations that we're testing and looking at that we -- we're pretty excited about.
So yes the pouches have been successful for us.
It gets good price realization on the sizes and it gets us into some places we haven't been and we're going to continue to pursue some of those innovations.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
I guess a year ago you raised your long-term growth target on the bottom line and a lot of things have gone against you since then.
Now you're kind of not surprisingly kind of suggesting that the global markets emerging markets are a bit more challenging but you've got a lot of incremental let's say EBIT coming from those emerging markets if you in fact make your call it 10-plus percent margin goals.
And so I'm kind of wondering how that all fits together granted it's like a 2017 question.
But is that -- are there things at risk here given that international is that much more challenging and that's a pretty big part of what grows your EBIT over the next couple of years? Well I think where we're at Eric is our goal continues to be to get to the 10% level in international.
And as things sit in 2014 our biggest issue was really around the commodities and then some other costs that sat in the gross margin that I talked about earlier.
I think we've taken steps to get those into line.
With respect to the international growth our China business continues to do very well.
You're right we're a little bit behind where we were tracking as we wanted to do that with respect to India and Latin America.
So we may be a little bit later depending on the levels of investment that we continue to make and how we're able to kind of work through those couple of markets.
But overall I don't see any of those as being big risks to the overall corporate targets that we expect to hit in 2017.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I can just -- one follow-up.
I think it's on -- maybe kind of following up on Bryan's question earlier in 2015.
It seems like the one input that you can't really control is dairy and some -- there have been some players in the market who have suggested that dairy may come down.
Others are less optimistic.
Kind of how are you thinking about dairy costs into next year and in your plans for gross margins being up next year have you basically assumed that dairy kind of remains where it is? Or did you expect some possible benefit in that? Well I guess I don't want to really get into our specific view of individual market -- of individual commodities but what I would say is we've taken our best shot at what we believe the market would do.
And also I alluded a bit earlier in the inventory discussion that we have taken on a little bit of additional inventory and some of that is also to help us with our dairy cost visibility for next year.
So we think we've taken our best shot at where we're at but you're right there'll be an element of risk to that as we go through 2015.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just as we think out to 2015 a key part obviously of your sales growth will be a category returning back to that sort of historic 3% to 4% level that you mentioned in the prepared remarks.
In the third quarter I guess the CMG category seemed from your numbers to decelerate sequentially even when you exclude the gum portion.
And that was with I think some incremental activity in innovation and whatnot that you brought to the market in the third quarter.
I'm just trying to get a sense what drove that? And obviously what bends the trend as you see it to get back to a 3% to 4% category growth rate next year? And then I've just got a follow-up.
Yes.
Andrew before J.P.
jumps in I don't know if you're looking at Q2 or year-to-date but Q2 certainly would've been impacted by the late Easter.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I think I was comparing 3Q versus the first half that you talked about on your second quarter conference call.
The overall category sequentially decelerated in the third quarter from the first half level.
Well if I look at 3Q I think what we're saying for CMG was up about 1.6 points.
If you look at us we were up about 3.3 points.
So I think that...
Research Division</strong> And I'm talking about category here.
Yes yes that's what I was talking -- yes that's what I'm referring to there.
If you look at chocolate in particular it was about 2 to 3 for the category we were at about 3.
So again I think one of the key differences for us was really around the acceleration of merchandising and winning in the store every day.
We had a bit of a different lag in the food channel and a lot of that was that we didn't -- we weren't able to get into the planning to be able to get the kind of incremental coverage and merchandising that we did in the other channels.
So I think that was a key difference.
There was a difference in trips and so on some of the everyday items.
One of the things that we're observing is as you look at advertising effectiveness when you have trips that decline that instant consumable piece of your business also doesn't have the same effectiveness as it would before.
So it's really important for us to be able to get the right merchandising to get those brands to be responsive as well.
So I think all of those things are happening.
I think on the good news side for snacking in general there's elements of that in total which I think continues to do very well.
Consumers continue to eat on the go.
They're looking for different alternatives there.
So we continue to be very optimistic from that standpoint.
I think our view is that we just have to execute well on a by-channel basis maybe better more so than we have -- did in the first half.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then one last one.
It looks like at least by my quick math you need about 100 basis points of gross margin expansion in the fourth quarter to hit the down 75 basis point gross margin look for the year.
Is that just a combination of a little bit of the pricing kicking in and lapping some of the higher sort of incremental costs from last year? And is that...
I think you've got it pretty well.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First just to come back to gross margins.
I definitely appreciate that dairy stayed higher for longer than anticipated and that creates some challenges when volumes are weak and you're waiting -- and pricing is such a structured process.
I guess what I'm wondering is when you run into problems meeting your gross margin target due to sort of persistent higher prices in a discrete commodity does this call into question whether you maybe should be pursuing more aggressive productivity initiatives on an ongoing basis so you have greater flexibility to work through discrete issues like this as they arise? Well I mean I think that our productivity efforts -- our goal is to try to be getting as much out of them as we're able to.
So to hold a little bit in reserve in case we miss the commodity guesses or the commodity forecasts probably isn't how we would really like to operate.
We certainly push forward and we certainly did in 2014 put additional focus into productivity.
We've put additional focus into SG&amp;A discipline and we also took a closer look at our DME.
So I mean I think we did that across the P&amp;L but the amounts that we had were just more than we could reasonably deal with this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so for 2014 just in terms of quantifiable productivity is that going to end up being higher than what you would've sort of targeted on a long-term basis? Well in terms of if you look at it strictly within gross margin it's going to be about in line with what we were looking at on a long-term basis.
But it actually hurt a bit because of the volume changes that we weren't able to get quite the level of benefit from some of the productivity things we were implementing.
And then similarly some of the shipping patterns and that around the price increase also had some adverse impacts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up on the C-store trends you highlighted.
I just wanted to get your thoughts on the broader consumer environment the acceleration you saw sequentially.
Would you chalk most of that up to an improvement in quality merchandising? Or is there a portion of that that you would based on what you observed across the channel would consider just a macro tailwind from gas prices something along those lines? Well to talk about gas prices we tend not to try to allow fuel costs get into our forecast if -- we've seen a lot of different things happen over the years.
When fuel prices were really high sometimes you saw that the consumer put half a tank of gas in and they still went inside the store and in some instances we benefited from that.
With gas prices being lower you could say that we benefit because people aren't spending as much at the pump and they're going inside.
So we actually don't try to derive too much from the cost of fuel.
We really look at what's happening from traffic.
So I think you continue to have a bifurcation of the consumer.
I think the people at the top if you will are experiencing what I would call more normal kinds of times and habits and then I think you have folks that have kind of adjusted to their circumstances.
So they may not necessarily have the job they want but they have one but yet they recognize this is how things are going to be and they've adjusted for that.
So you see promotion effectiveness being lower from a price standpoint because people don't necessarily always have the cash to buy forward and take advantage of that or they believe something will be on sale at some point in time.
So a lot of the things you've heard discussed in the CPG space we certainly see as well.
The big thing for us is really being in front of the consumer making sure our instant consumable piece of the business is working hard for us.
Consumers have costs that they didn't have before.
The good news is health care is available but yet that's a cost maybe some people didn't have before.
We all saw the impact of SNAP and we've also seen fewer trips but yet the good news is basket size seems to be holding up and in some cases growing.
So I think we're just going to have to continue to work our way through here.
So I'm not sure we have a lot of new insights to add but we're certainly seeing a lot of things we're hearing our peers talk about as well.
Your next question comes from the line of David Driscoll with Citi.
Research Division</strong> First off just an observation.
For a company that's growing its EPS at 8% several hundred basis points above the group this is one of the tougher years that I've seen from you guys just given these fairly constant reductions in both the revenues and the gross margins outlook.
I think Bryan nailed it when he asked you guys what's your confidence in 2015.
And J.P.
if I could just push you a little bit on this thing do you have real fundamental confidence that the outlook has a robust nature enough such that we're not going to be going through this every quarter? There's margin problems revenue problems that we're not on the bleeding edge of the forecast.
Can I just start there? And I mean it's the #1 question we're getting from everybody this morning.
Yes -- no David I'm optimistic about our business model.
I don't think there's anything fundamentally wrong.
Obviously we learn.
We have to adapt.
You can't do the same thing forever and expect to continue to win.
But I think the visibility we have on our brands the things we're working with retailers I feel good about.
Even though we've talked about the export markets look those are prudent business decisions.
I mean we could have pushed into some of those businesses but you put at risk what your results will be then following from that.
So I think we're being wise and prudent around some of those things we can't see around the corner well on.
But the things that are within our control I think we have good plans.
I think we've got a ton of runway and our strategies were I'll call it doubling down on China if you will in terms of what we think is possible there.
So I feel good about things.
And I think that we want to give ourselves some space here that we don't have surprises.
We've got good visibility I think as best we can in terms of commodities.
I'm glad to see that milk prices have -- dairy has softened some here.
But I don't know if that's short term long term but we'll sure take it while we've got it.
And from a cocoa standpoint we've had a little bit of easing there.
So there's some of the things on the cost side are good.
We're rigorously looking at our operations all the time in terms of where we can find productivity and yet we continue to -- we're at a historic point in time for the company where we're investing in our future.
So I'm not going to be overly concerned with a quarter that we may not be hitting our long-term aspirations but boy I believe that we're in a very good place in terms of the company's long-term outlook and potential and we're going to continue to execute against that.
David what I would add is as we look at '15 versus '14 gross margin yes I think we had some issues in '14 and really the persistent dairy cost and not adjusting quickly enough to some of the volume changes put some costs in there that I think we've taken steps to address.
So I think we're rightly positioned for 2015.
Research Division</strong> Two other quick ones.
On the fourth quarter revenue build I think the implied organic number is somewhere around 4.5% and I think it should be kind of mostly price.
But first off do I have that right? And is that an actual deceleration from where the organic growth was in the third quarter? If so can you just talk about the kind of the pressures quarter-to-quarter? I don't mean to be too crazy about this but Andrew again another good question trying to just get an understanding on the sequential movements and if there's a softening into Q4.
I think it deserves maybe just a little bit of explanation.
Yes I mean I think the -- excluding the Shanghai Golden Monkey the fourth quarter growth that's implied is around the 4%.
And so within that we are expecting about 5% of price.
Research Division</strong> And then comparison to 3Q I mean do you see it softening a little bit? Well I think what we've said is in the fourth quarter given the export and some of the softness in the food channel that that's kind of the thing that's been taking down the -- it is the reason that we took down the full year guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Final question.
The inventory obsolescence charges quite honestly I had kind of hoped to never hear those words again on your calls.
I had the visions of the 2005 and '06 periods when all those limited editions were being -- inventory obsolescence charges that seem to never end.
Is this a minor issue? Is this just some planning that went on in the -- or I think you mentioned changeovers or you didn't respond quick enough.
Is this inventory obsolescence issue that you called out for the quarter is that something that spills into Q4 and Q1 of next year? Or is it pretty much wrapped up here? There could be a little that would carry over into Q4 but it won't carry beyond that.
Yes it's very internal David.
It's not a marketplace issue at all.
Right.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Moskow with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I'll keep my questions to one question.
Shanghai Golden Monkey I believe when you closed the deal you said it was $205 million in sales in 2013 and that appears to be the forecast for '15 as well.
I think when you originally announced it the expectation was that it would be $225 million.
I'm just trying to really understand why the reduction in the size of sales and why no growth expected for 2015 unless I'm getting my math wrong.
And then maybe how are you integrating the business? Well yes I think there's probably 2 things as you go through that.
First as we started on this there was -- there's some adjustments between sort of how they keep their accounting in U.S.
GAAP that had a little bit of impact in terms of where the sales were.
But then in addition to that just as we're basically working to be generating the synergies and actually take over the business there's just some changes in the business that caused us to just want to make sure we're being cautious in terms of how we're defining how we get started.
Because in terms of working with the distributors and how we're working with what products will be sold in what channel what of our stuff is going to be through Golden Monkey's channels and what of theirs through ours.
Research Division</strong> Are you rationalizing the SKU count? Are you reducing inventory...
There is some of that also.
Your final question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Just made the cut here so I'll be very brief.
The first will be in a bit of a follow-up to the fourth quarter.
And really as we look through the year you did talk about some sales pulled forward into the third quarter.
Does that mean those come out of the fourth quarter if you will? I think related to that or in addition to that would be what your FX assumption is for the year if I could please.
Well with respect to the first our -- the guidance as we're talking about it reflects the shift between the third and the fourth quarter.
So that's really reflected in terms of what we're talking about going forward.
And then secondly with respect to FX we're probably looking at about a half 50 basis points for the full year and it's pretty much in line with what we had forecast.
We forecasted it to be heavier in the first half and lighter in the second half.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could just one follow-up.
Dave in relation to dairy costs and I know those are high but they were really trending higher in the fourth quarter of last year.
Based on that degree of pricing you're coming through -- or expected to come through in the fourth quarter it would seem like you could offset your cost inflation in the fourth quarter.
Would that be an accurate assumption? Yes.
I mean we're expecting to see gross margin increase in the fourth quarter versus last year.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> And then hopefully you'll be able to overcome costs okay.
Yes yes.
All right.
Thank you for joining us for today's conference call and the Investor Relations group will be available for any follow-up calls you may have.
That does conclude today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Phyllis and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Hershey Company's Fourth Quarter and Year End 2014 Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Mark Pogharian you may begin your conference.
Thank you Phyllis.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to The Hershey Company's fourth quarter 2014 conference call.
J.P.
Bilbrey President and CEO and Bert Alfonso President International and Head of Mergers &amp; Acquisitions will provide you with an overview of our results followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Let me remind everyone listening that today's conference call may contain statements which are forward looking.
These statements are based on current expectations which are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements because of factors such as those listed in this morning's press release and in our 10-K for 2013 filed with the SEC.
If you have not seen the press release a copy is posted on our corporate website in the Investor Relations section.
Included in the press release is a consolidated balance sheet and a summary of consolidated statements of income prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Within the Notes section of the press release we have provided adjusted pro forma reconciliations of select income statement line items quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.
The company uses these non-GAAP measures as key metrics for evaluating performance internally.
These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP.
Rather the company believes the presentation of earnings excluding certain items provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations.
As a result we will discuss 2014 fourth quarter results excluding net pretax charges of $32.5 million or $0.30 per share diluted primarily related to a noncash trademark impairment charge and loss on disposal of $24.8 million or $0.10 per share diluted and business realignment cost of $4.7 million or $0.02 per share diluted.
Our discussion of any future projections will also exclude the impact of these net charges.
With that out of the way let me turn the call over to J.P.
Bilbrey.
Good morning all of you on the phone and webcast.
In 2014 Hershey made progress against its strategic initiatives.
U.S.
CMG xAOC+C market share reached 31.4% up 0.3 share points versus last year.
We acquired Shanghai Golden Monkey which more than doubles the companys presence in China.
We expanded into snacks and adjacencies with the launch of Hershey Spreads and the related Snacksters Graham Dippers.
And we sourced 30% of our cocoa needs from certified and sustainable cocoa farms putting us in a solid position to deliver on our 100% goal by 2020.
There are also challenges.
In 2014 we believe lower retail store traffic changes in consumer spending patterns as a result of the SNAP program and a more competitive snacking environment for contributing factors that impacted how consumers participated in the snack segment.
This resulted in fourth quarter and full year sales and earnings that were below our expectations.
Specifically growth in snacking alternatives and an evolving retail landscape are impacting what consumers buy and where and how they make purchases.
Higher income consumers continue to ask for simple ingredients health and wellness and millennials view brands and brand attributes beyond traditional transparency to include social responsibility.
They are also interacting with media differently.
Now let me share with your some of the things that we're doing to address this.
Our R&amp;D and innovation teams continue to make progress on new confectionary and snack products that enable us to offer great confectionary products and increase the breadth of our portfolio.
Later this year the Club channel will be introducing Brookside dark chocolate fruit and nut snack bars.
Building on our snacks and adjacencies strategy earlier today we announced that we entered into an agreement to acquire Krave Jerky which enables us to enter the rapidly growing meat snacks category.
We are really excited about this acquisition and the opportunity to participate in the 2.5 billion meat snacks category that's growing at a double digit rate.
While snacks and adjacencies is a lever in our long term sales algorithm we are very focused on confectionary.
It's who we are and it's our name sake.
We have a lot of CMG innovation this year that I'll talk to in a moment.
But we also have a meaningful new product pipeline that gives me confidence that innovation can continue to contribute at least one point of growth to our net sales algorithm on an annual basis.
So I remain bullish on the CMG category and our ability to keep increasing market share.
As it relates to simple ingredient and transparency we've actually done a lot of work here.
We have at leverage what we've done as our plan is to move a large portion of our portfolio in this direction.
We are building the capability and have made progress to source non-GMO sugar and RSBT free milk for products in the United States.
We've already begin this work with key sourcing suppliers here in the U.S.
and well have more news on this later in the year.
On the media front we expect that advertising and related consumer promotion will increase at a rate greater than sales.
Included in this is a greater proportion of investment in digital advertising on programs consumers view on their mobile devices via traditional networks user generated content and sources like BuzzFeed.
So we are making investments that will benefit the company in the near and long term.
And we'll have more on this at CAGNY so lets move on.
I was satisfied with improved results in the convenience store large mass retail and dollar store channels especially in the second half of the year.
However FDMx non-seasonal candy performance was not inline with our initial plans.
Lower retail store traffic greater levels of in-store activity by broader snacking manufacturers and continued economic challenges for a segment of consumers in these channels impacted our non seasonal candy growth.
Looking at total xAOC+C store retail takeaway U.S.
marketplace performance sequentially improved throughout the year.
Hershey fourth quarter retail takeaway of 3.8% was greater than the category growth of 2.2% resulting in a market share gain of 0.5 points.
Marketplace performance was greater than 4Q net sales given solid Halloween and Holiday sales a portion of which shift in the third quarter.
The timing of the buy-in related to the price increase as a portion of third quarter net sales would have normally occurred in the fourth quarter.
And that lapping of the strong year ago period when select retailers increased inventory levels.
Driving our fourth quarter takeaway results were improvements in convenience stores large mass retail and dollars stores.
These were the channels where many of our second half initiatives were focused so I was pleased with the results.
The programming and execution changes we made in the FDMX and Club channel simply required a longer lead time to impact in-store merchandizing activity.
Hence our sales mix and lower than forecast category growth impacted profitability and margins.
Let me now talk about 2015 where our focus will be on restoring our U.S.
momentum.
We have a solid line-up of new products that will bring variety news and excitement to the category.
In addition to the carryover benefit of Brookside Crunchy Clusters and Reese's Spreads we're also launching Kit Kat White Minis Hersheys Caramels Ice Breakers Cool Blasts Chews Reeses Spreads Snacksters Graham Dippers and some other yet to be announced new products.
Additionally the Reeses brand is leveraging its NCAA relationship and is becoming the official sponsor of ESPN College Football Game Day.
These initiatives are tied into customers specific merchandizing programs and big core brands that should result in higher quality merchandizing versus last year.
Additionally we're increasing our reach as we're adding incremental headcount to our sales force that will result in hours in store being up mid single digits.
We'll complement this with increased levels of advertising that I mentioned earlier.
We believe the investments we're making across our business positions us for future growth.
The dynamics of the confectionary category impulsivity conversion rate of check-outs season multiple pack types are all an advantage.
As a result in 2015 we anticipate that the plans we have in place will help mitigate the volume elasticity related to the price increase and it will outpace the category and again gain market share.
Let me now provide you with some information on our international business.
For the full year our international net sales increased nearly 15% including the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates and positive contribution of about $54 million for Shanghai Golden Monkey.
Excluding SGM and unfavorable FX international net sales increased 10% a solid number but less than our expectations due to macroeconomic headwinds that have yet to subside and will most likely remain a challenge this year.
The Hershey Golden Monkey integration work is underway and on track.
In 2015 we will distribute acquired confectionary and protein based bean curd snacks into the China modern trade and we expect to have deeper Tier 2 city coverage of some Hershey chocolate products.
We're also leveraging newly acquired manufacturing capabilities.
In China Brazil Mexico and India we've made solid progress against our planned initiative of investing in go-to-market capabilities and portfolio expansion.
In select markets we launched Reese's and is off to a good start.
Additionally we're testing additional products as we look to build out global brands over the next few years.
Therefore in 2015 including a negative impact from foreign currency exchange rates and excluding the impact of M&amp;A we expect international net sales growth to increase around 10%.
Including SGM reported international net sales are expected to be around $1.2 billion by the end of 2015.
By country our chocolate business in China had a solid year.
Chocolate category growth in 2014 was about 12%.
Historically the chocolate category has increased 10% to 11% in the fourth quarter.
However it's slowed to around 8% as we see less gifting behind the Government policy changes.
Hershey fourth quarter retail takeaway of about 20% was less than our expectation.
Importantly our market share in Q4 increased a full point to around 11%.
In Mexico chocolate category growth in the modern trade in 2014 was around 1%.
The category and consumer struggled during the year although trends were better in the second half of the year with chocolate category growth of 3% but this is still below the historical growth rate of 7% to 8%.
Hershey Mexico chocolate retail takeaway for the year was up around 2% resulting in a market share gain of 0.3 points.
We expect 2015 to be better than last year albeit in a continuing challenging environment.
Our performance in Brazil has sequentially improved as the year progressed.
For the year Brazil chocolate growth was 1% versus about 5% in recent years.
Hershey retail takeaway was up 2%.
Our performance was driven by our Hershey tablet bar growth and the launch of Reese's.
We look to build on this in 2015.
Now to wrap up our consumer and customer plans as well as our investment profile for 2015 clearly reflect the learnings from 2014.
Our plans are focused and the investment profile was concentrated in the areas to leverage Hershey's advantage brands and go to market strength.
Investment in our brands innovation and capabilities as well as an increase across all channels and merchandizing and programming positions the company to compete effectively in confectionary and across the broader snack continuum.
We believe these investments should generate organic net sales growth or constant currency sales excluding M&amp;A and FX impacts of around 4% to 6% in 2015.
This is less than our previous estimate and reflects the macroeconomic headwinds in international markets and the slowly improving U.S.
non-seasonal trends.
I typically just talked to net sales with and without M&amp;A however when we established our long-term sales target we didn't anticipate the U.S.
dollar being this strong.
Given the current backdrop we expect foreign exchange rates to be greater than our previous estimate and be about one percentage point unfavorable in 2015.
We estimate that the net contribution for acquisitions and divestitures will be around 2.5 points.
We continue to focus on growth initiatives and margin opportunities behind continuous productivity improvement initiatives.
With the conclusion of the Project Next Century program in 2015 we'll focus on with the next largest opportunities are for future incremental productivity and cost savings.
A portion of any particular savings from this assessment would be reinvested in our CMG and snacks business to accelerate our growth and we'll provide more information on this at the upcoming CAGNY Conference.
I'll now turn it over to Bert who will provide some additional detail on our financial results.
Bert? Well thank you JP and good morning to everyone.
It's a pleasure to be here to talk about our results as well as some of the recent M&amp;A activity.
As Mark mentioned I've been very close to all of this as I have responsibility for the M&amp;A function as well as our international segment.
So let's get started.
Fourth quarter net sales of $2 billion increased 2.7% versus last year generating adjusted earnings per share diluted of $1.04 an increase of 20.9%.
As JP stated the sales increase was lower than our expectations primarily due to lower retail store traffic.
Net price realization mostly in the U.S.
was a 3.1 point benefit.
Excluding Shanghai Golden Monkey volume was off 2.3 points due to price elasticity associated with the U.S.
price increase announced in July and lower than expected non-seasonal sales.
The Shanghai Golden Monkey acquisition was a 2.7 point benefit and foreign currency was a 0.8 point headwind.
Q4 U.S.
seasonal sales primarily driven by holiday increased high single digits on a percentage basis versus last year.
Full year seasonal sales were a bit higher given a later Easter in 2014.
Conversely Easter is 15 days shorter in 2015 and will be a headwind this year.
From a market place perspective our Halloween and holiday market share increased 0.9 points and 1.1 points respectively.
International net sales in the fourth quarter increased 28% including a benefit of about $54 million related to the Shanghai Golden Monkey acquisition.
Excluding Shanghai Golden Monkey international net sales increased 8% as reported and 11% on a constant currency basis as unfavorable FX was greater than anticipated.
Macroeconomic headwinds in Q4 led to international sales being lower than our expectations.
Turning to margins fourth quarter adjusted gross margin increased by 30 basis points.
The increase is driven by net price realization slightly favorable input cost and supply chain productivity partially offset by unfavorable sales mix and other supply chain costs.
Fourth quarter adjusted earnings before interest and taxes or EBIT increased 17.5% versus last year generating an adjusted EBIT margin of 18.7% a 240 basis point increase versus last year.
The increase was due to the higher gross margin and lower SM&amp;A cost that declined about 5% due primarily to lower employee related costs.
In Q4 advertising was up about the same as last year and as we said throughout the year advertising GRPs were up mid single digits on a percentage basis versus 2013.
Now let me provide a bit more detail on our international business.
China continues to drive international net sales growth and excluding Shanghai Golden Monkey increased about 35% in both the fourth quarter and for the full year.
We anticipate a similar profile in 2015.
I'm very pleased with the progress we continue to make in China and remain optimistic regarding confectionery growth in both the modern and traditional trade.
We'll continue to expand our selling capabilities and expect growth in 2015 to be balanced between velocity and distribution games.
We will also expand cross-selling of products between Shanghai Golden Monkey and Hershey China in the coming year.
And finally we were very pleased with our 1.6 point share gain in chocolate in 2014.
In Brazil Q4 net sales were about the same as last year on a reported basis an increase about 12% on a constant currency basis.
For the full year net sales declined about 3% on a reported basis and increased about 7% on a constant currency basis versus last year.
Despite the difficult category environment we were pleased with a small share gain of 0.1 points.
In 2015 we're exploring other go-to-market options together with our current JV Partner Bauducco.
Our distribution JV with Bauducco has enabled us to double our market share in the last few years.
However we are considering having total control over the selling and distribution function to give us more flexibility and investment options.
In Mexico fourth quarter net sales declined 6% on a reported basis and were flat on a constant currency basis versus last year.
For the full year net sales declined to 8% on a reported basis and 4% on a constant currency basis compared to 2013.
Again our chocolate performance is favorable with a 0.3 point share gain driven by both velocity and distribution gains.
Trends in Mexico are getting better and we expect continued improvement throughout 2015 although still below the historical growth rates.
Weve made solid progress against our international strategic plans.
We remain committed to our core markets and well continue to make the necessary investments to build distribution capability brand equity and drive trial and repeat purchases.
Moving down to P&amp;L the fourth quarter interest expense is $21 million was about the same as last year.
The before year interest expense was $85 million and in line with our expectations.
And for 2015 we expect interest expense to be $75 million to $80 million.
The adjusted rate for fourth quarter and the full year was 34.5% in line with our estimates.
In 2015 we expect the adjusted tax rate to be similar to last year.
In the fourth quarter with average shares outstanding on a diluted basis we're approximately $223.5 million we need to adjust earnings per share $1.4 an increase of 20.9%.
Full year adjusted EBIT increased 5.8% versus last year generating an adjusted EBIT margin of 19.6% or a 40 basis point increase.
The increase was driven by lower SG&amp;A.
Turning now to the balance sheet and to our cash flow.
At the end of the fourth quarter net trading capital increased versus last year's fourth quarter by $240 million.
The cash receivable was higher by $119 million primarily due the Shanghai Golden Monkey acquisition Lotte China consolidation and traditional credit terms provided to our largest customers in China.
Inventory was higher by $141 million to the Shanghai Golden Monkey in Lotte as well as higher raw material inventory levels primarily dairy that we mentioned in the last quarter.
And accounts payable increased by $21 million.
Capital additions including software were $139 million in the fourth quarter and $379 million for the full year in line with our expectations.
This included capital related to our manufacturing facility that we're building in Johor Malaysia.
In 2015 we expect CapEx to be in a $375 million to $400 million range.
The company repurchased 2 million outstanding shares in the fourth quarter and 202 million for the full year.
Repurchases of 125 million were against the prior authorization and 77 million were against the current 250 million repurchased authorization approved in February of 2014.
In addition 32 million of common shares were repurchased in Q4 to replace shares issued in connection with the exercises of stock options.
Depreciation and amortization was $59 million in the fourth quarter and $212 million for the full year in line with expectations.
Dividends paid during the quarter were $115 million and $440 million for the full year.
Cash and short term investments at the end of the fourth quarter were $471 million slightly below our expectations due to the lower sales.
The company remains well positioned to fund our dividends working capital capital expenditure requirements and acquisitions.
Let me close by providing context into our 2015 outlook.
As J.P.
summarized in 2015 we have a solid pipeline of target innovation merchandising and programming that can drive pack type and channel growth.
In addition advertising related to consumer marketing expense is expected to increase at a rate greater than net sales growth.
As a result we expect 2015 net sales to increase from 5.5% to 7.5% including the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates and a net contribution from acquisitions and divestitures of about 2.5 points.
This includes the acquisition of Shanghai Golden Monkey and Allan Candy that closed in the fourth quarter as well as the agreement entered into over the last month to acquire Krave Jerky and divested Mauna Loa.
We expect the Krave and Mauna Loa transactions to close in the first quarter.
Excluding that acquisitions and divestitures sales are expected to increase 3% to 5%.
This is lower than our previous estimate due to the continued macroeconomic headwinds as well as greater than initial estimates related to unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates.
And we expect foreign exchange impact to be greater than our previous estimate and have an unfavorable impact of approximately one percentage point on our full year net sales growth.
We continue to have a significant focus on gross margin and expect the previously announced pricing action as well as productivity and cost savings to result in 2015 gross margin expansion of 135 to 145 basis points.
Adjusted earnings per share diluted are expected to increase 8% to 10% and that includes dilution from acquisitions and divestitures of $0.03 to $0.05 per share.
Before we open it up for Q&amp;A just a couple of thoughts on the first quarter.
Remember that Easter is two weeks shorter this year and being sold in at the old price points which will pressure gross margin.
Our international sales profile is similar to prior years with annual growth primarily driven by second half.
Therefore total first quarter net sales including M&amp;A are expected to be around the low end of our annual sales target.
Additionally brand building as well as investments and selling capabilities will ramp up in Q1.
Given all these moving parts EPS growth is expected to be pressured in the first quarter and higher as the year progresses.
I thank you for your time this morning and will now take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
J.P.
did I hear correctly about a sales force increase in 2015? If you think about the total investment we're making on our go-to-market strategy both in international as well as North America the U.S.
will continue to invest in hours for store in our sales organization.
Then of course in China we've been talking about a geographic expansion there.
So it requires a broader go-to-market strategy.
So yes we are really investing again in our go-to-market capabilities.
So just digging deeper in the US increase is it in terms of just why now.
Is it more of a sense the competitive environment is maybe shifting beyond your current capabilities? Or is it more related to shifts in channel shopping by consumers and the irregularities there? Well I think the biggest driver for us is we look at 2014 in a competitive nature of merchandising and being in the right place and being able to responsive.
We really see that as always being one of our core advantages and we continue to believe that.
We're going to invest in those resources at retail.
Thanks J.P.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
So I had a question about as we're looking into next year and the parts of the revenue the drags on revenue relative to target right now aside from FX are the non-seasonal confections business in the US.
And the international collectively the international business is below long-term targets.
So if you could talk about first on the non-seasonal business are you seeing any sequential improvement in January or so far year-to-date just simply because you've got some pressure? Gas prices are lower jobless numbers that look better.
Just any insights into how non-seasonal is maybe tracking as you moved into the first quarter.
Sure.
There's a couple of things and were encouraged with some of the things we're seeing as we deconstruct the weekly data.
So youre correct the non-seasonal FDMx sales has been the biggest drag in our business.
So we feel good about the fact the fourth quarter we saw improvement we continue to grow ahead of the category and it was really a result that we think improve focus on merchandising in specific channels.
In FDMx it's a slower built there because the planning cycle is also different.
But theres a couple of things that we were seeing and if we look at the weekly data when you get the most recent quarter you're going to see that we're making good progression from a share standpoint.
We think that reflects some of the changes we made in merchandising.
One of the other things that we're seeing is a trips continue to be negative although they are getting better but negative and off course that continues to effect the consumer business as everyday business people log into story you loose that instinct consumable piece.
So we are very focused on that.
There is a piece of data that I recently looked at for our brand specifically that would in the trip there is an increase in actual purchase size.
So the trips that we're getting purchase side is actually up.
But the one caveat I make keep in mind with the fourth quarter you have some seasonal so that can be part of it.
But in the weekly data and this is all home scale information we do have some really encouragement there.
So I feel good about what I'm beginning to see anecdotally as you talked to retailers I would say that Im hearing some of those same kinds of sentiments echoed.
And then of course we all are aware that the consumers had a lot of pressure at the bottom of the economic pyramid and its still yet to be seen how that consumer participates in the market.
But for the total I think Im encouraged.
That's really helpful.
And I just wanted to clarify.
In terms of the -- your revenue outlook for this year and actually the gross margin because it's affected by it as well are you expecting a material improvement both in international or non-seasonal? Or at this point will an improvement be upside to where the guidance is? You started the questions by started comparing what we were thinking in the third quarter versus more recently.
And if you think about the international side a half of point is really just incremental drag from FX back then were thinking closer to half a point today were firmly at a point and we'll see where that goes hopefully the dollar starts to stabilize a bit.
When we look at international business we're probably closer to around 13% back than we alluded to 10 as J.P.
mentioned.
The macro economy has got little tougher in places like Brazil and Mexico.
We saw a little bit of slow down in China in the fourth quarter but we worry less about that.
We've had a lot of momentum going into Chinese New Year but certainly what J.P.
talked about in terms of some pickup on the everyday business and little bit lower expectations at least for 2015 in international is what makes the biggest difference.
We also had a little pressure on our export business which while is not huge is very profitable and as you can imagine the currency into some of these markets also has some impact.
Thanks Bert.
That's helpful.
And again as we tie that altogether does the guidance assume that things really improve or would improvement in both of those areas be upside to where our revenue guidance is? We're hoping for - although we haven't baked it into our plans gradual improvement.
But we would say back half versus first half.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Feeney with Athlos Research.
So I have three questions but they're all kind of related.
The first is about what percent of your North American volume do you assume is going to be under the new price increase this year? You mentioned Easter was and about what percent would that be? Related to that and secondly is is there some negative mix factor I'm missing that why gross margins would only be up 120 to 130 rough gross margin? When you've got this magnitude of price increase you're number two commodity dairy is now in free fall and I know you've bought forward to some extent and that's understandable.
But it looks to me like your cost bucket might be flat to down exiting the year.
But is there something I'm missing as to why that margin expansion is so small and how that might pace over the year? And then third and finally can you give us a sense of what kind of volume you're thinking globally associated with this guidance? So maybe I can understand if there's some deep manufacturing deleverage like we saw in the fourth quarter? Thanks very much.
Let me take the pricing one first and then let Bert talk a little bit about the gross margin.
The best way to think about the pricing is as we move through the year there is still some activities that are under the old price certainly around the seasonal business.
So youll begin to see that have a greater impact in Q2 and Q3 and then if you think about getting through the end of 2015 we continue to model the elasticity at about one to one rate in terms of volume and price.
So by the time we get to the first quarter of 2016 our modeling would suggest that were back to a whole environment or back to 100 in terms of volume contribution to our growth.
So that's the way I would think about it broadly.
There is a lot of movement still but as we look at some of our channel modeling there is nothing that we're seeing that would cause us to believe that it would be any different than how we planned.
As you know when we were increasing advertising in a very rapid rate back in 2008 2009 and 2011 there might have been a little bit of a faster conversion rate but we think the way weve currently model this its probably about right.
Let me try to fill your end on your question around gross margin.
As we think about our gross margin expansion we're expecting 135 to 145 basis points.
We are coming off the year when were actually down at gross margin first time in a long time.
We did start to see a pick up in the fourth quarter slightly below what we thought.
When you look at our year end year commodities I won't talk specifically about hedging program but clearly cocoa is still on average at higher prices than it was in our 2014 standard.
And thats really a function of - as we roll out of commodity program in a environment of increasing costs and we've seen cocoa increase pretty dramatically.
Obviously you may have some of the lower hedges rolling off and are buying into little bit higher market.
So while weve seen some improvement recently and thats good.
We still have cocoa that's higher than 2014 level.
So that does have some a bit of an impact in terms of how youre thinking about the expansion.
The other thing as J.P.
mentioned our profile for 2015 is driven by pricing.
So we are expecting five to six points of pricing and one to two points of lower volume.
And that lower volume does pressure our absorption in the plans and so you dont get the full benefit of that until as you get later in the year as J.P.
mentioned we start to recover the pre price increase volume.
So some volume impact doesnt work through the price of elasticity.
And while some commodities are clearly in a better place like dairy and sugar we do still have higher cocoa prices year-on-year.
So thats helping to mitigate to some degree what might be otherwise larger growth margin expansion.
Great thank you.
And if I could just add one follow-up real quick about the mix.
Is there any big mix the factor we ought to know about whether it's geographic or whether it's in the portfolio? Anything that's really affecting either the present quarter or 2015 that maybe isn't obvious? In the first quarter we certainly have the mix of Easter at the lower or old prices right because that particular season is still protected.
Once you get beyond that then you have seasons.
So if you do have that and J.P.
already talked about the everyday business starting to improve but the more that improves quicker the better we look on a mix basis.
We did have as is already explained not as good a mix in 2014 as we thought we would just based on the every day.
So certainly a first quarter impact on Easter at old prices and then improving throughout the year as pricing kicks in.
Jon its Mark just one thing so you would expect that we would have the most pricing than in the second and the third quarter and looking at it total company for the full year youre probably thinking  think about it as five to six points a price volume of 1.5 to 2 points because most - a lot of the international business is all going to be volume driven and then you got a point of FX so thats I guess how to think about the full year.
Great.
Thats very helpful.
Thanks guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
So a couple of quick questions.
It was a little alarming to hear about how the candy mint and gum category growth has slowed to about 1.7% in 2014 and how there might be some encroachment from other snacking categories.
Are you worried that some of those types of shifts may be more structural I guess? Are you seeing -- are you worried about smaller brands continuing to come up? And then my second question is actually more about the acquisition strategy from here.
As you've bought the Krave business and moved very clearly into a very different snacking category might we see more of those types of moves that you end up bulking up in snack categories that are maybe more in line with where the consumer is heading? Thank you very much.
Alexia to your first question around the category my answer is no.
I dont think there is anything structural that's going on here.
One interesting piece of that is helpful penetration actually went up through our brands in 2014.
And so I think the thing that were seeing is potentially several fold.
So 2014 there were lot of moving parts in terms of macroeconomic influences on consumers so we see that.
The trips piece for business like ours which has this everyday component is certainly an impacted people audience stores.
And I think there is a real consumer strata influence there that I think has to be dealt with.
Then in terms of let's just talk about the consumers themselves.
I do believe there is an evolution always happening with consumers and the relationships they have with brands I think some of the smaller brands have done a very good job of resonating with some of the on trend things that consumers talk about and we can talk separately about Krave here in a second of why we think that's on trend product uniquely positioned within that particular segment.
But as we saw takeaway improved throughout the year we feel we became a more competitive company responding to some of the just things that are happening within the category and consumers of course have broader choices.
What we see happening almost everywhere though and I'm very optimistic about how this plays to our strengths is that snacking and snack and portable snacking is not just a short term this is really a trend and its becoming a habit if you look at the way the number of meals people have during the day they have broader options on the menu of how to participate that.
We just have to be competitive and we have to be competitive with the brands we have that are within the core of the Hershey Company our confectionary products we are expending brands like Brookside which have a nice hallow effect of goodness.
And then we also see ourselves as weve talked about expanding across a broader snacking continuum.
And even if you talk - even if you think about China in a brand - our bean curd in China thats a product it brings protein it's on trend in terms of being a snacking on the go brand.
So we just see that being more and more important in terms of consumer trend and so as a company we have to adapt to where the consumer head it.
We talked about simple ingredients with GMO.
So if you think about a chocolate bar there is really only four components in a chocolate bar.
So we should be talking about the simplicity of that in responding to the transparency that consumers want and were doing that.
So I'm very optimistic about all of these things.
You set us up nicely to talk about Krave.
Michelle Buck who is the President of North America was very very involved with the acquisition for Krave.
She's here so why dont I give her a chance to just talk for a couple of minutes about the acquisition.
Thanks J.P.
As J.P.
mentioned were seeing consumers continue to snack more and graze throughout the day and as such their snacking need are really evolving.
Were going to be focused as we continue to look at the growth of our company as a snack company and how we meet those needs.
One of the areas that weve seen a lot of consumer interest in is affordable nutrition and protein-based snacking.
So as we look at that marketplace clearly one of the categories that's really meeting consumers need is meat snack category that is one of the fastest growing growing double digit in the U.S.
this past year and over the past several years.
Household penetration is expanding so household penetration is only up 31% but it continues to grow through two points this past year.
So clearly its meeting a lot of consumer needs.
And as we look to that category Krave was interesting to us because Krave is really playing in the fastest growing segment of the meat snacks category the better for you premium segment.
So we really like the brand we think it has tremendous potential the product preposition has a unique point of difference with a great taste a texture it's a culinary inspired kind of profile and we think that there is a lot of potential as they can continue to bring new consumers into the meat snacks category in the marketplace first to leverage Hershey strengths and supply chain consumer insights and retail to really drives the business.
So we couldnt be more excited about how it would continue to help us to meet consumer's needs as we stay very focused of course on winning in our categories.
Alright well take our next question.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Two quick things.
One J.P.
would be -- and maybe you'll cover this a little bit more at CAGNY but I think it's important just to cover the topic.
I certainly appreciate the evolution of where consumers are going and Hershey's desire to cover off on that a bit more with snacking adjacencies and such.
But the last time Hershey did this albeit in a different set of broader snacking categories the execution really wasn't where the company wanted it to be.
The sustainability of some of those items whether it was cookies in the C-store nuts things like that weren't exactly I guess as sustainable.
So is there something now that is different about capabilities the way you're planning for these sorts of things whether it's KRAVE or things beyond that that make you feel a lot better about the sustainability of it? And then I've just got a quick follow-up.
Andrew I think the biggest thing in my mind is the ability for us to execute against I think a clear business model today than we've had in the past.
I think that if you look what were doing in China and were going at a plan for thoughtful to execute against the right R&amp;D the right distribution the consumer insights and supporting it with advertising et cetera.
I think thats where we're probably doing a much better job today than we have in the past.
And so admittedly not all things work perfectly but I think that we have a clear sense of how we want to execute it against these  against these things and I expect this to be successful.
Thanks for that.
And then I certainly understand your thought process around no structural changes to the core CMG category growth rate.
Do you think for planning purposes that perhaps the historical 3% to 4% rate as a category in 2015 may prove overly optimistic or do you think that might still hold for this year as well? As weve thought about the category we certainly plan to go market share within that category.
We think long term the 3% to 4% growth rate for the category is still the right way to think about it.
You know these things are sometimes a bit of up sometime it's a bit low but as weve seen some improvement over the - as I talked earlier about the quarter and the weeks et cetera we think that it's still a good planning stand for this year to think about positive category growth.
And the most important thing is that in environment we have to win.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman with Deutsche.
A couple of questions.
Kind of related to that comment about the category broadly in the U.S.
It seems like the premium end of it is gaining some share for RO Lindt et cetera.
The company kind of like and snacks years ago tried to get into premium but wasn't really all that successful.
J.P.
perhaps you could touch on that and what that means for the category and your growth within it? I think Eric if you look historically the premium as we sort of defined it over time is somewhere around 7% or 8% of the total category in good economic times it always tends to grow and expand in terms of space some of that growth is driven by distribution and then in more difficult economic times usually the distribution in category contraction goes along with it.
I think what it speaks to in the current environment is the top end of the economic pyramid is fine and the consumer that participates there has the ability to participate.
And I also think that part of the category has in many ways a clear message to the consumer also that is around sometime ingredients and so forth.
So I believe thats what we are seeing more than anything else.
I agree with you we have not done a good job in the premium space.
We are spending a lot of time right now on how we want to participate in premium were pushing up some within our  the middle of our portfolio certainly with products like Brookside which takes us up a little bit youll see some of the innovation we have this year which will also do that.
And then were looking stronger our brands like Scharffen Berger and trying to make an effort to see how we can play differently with those brands.
So we are not going to ignore that.
I think in the past we have not done a good job.
We want to reiterate ourselves a bit there and then its still problematic for the consumers are participating in the category.
So you will see some category expansion from that space but I think the overall category really will continue to be driven by mass products.
Okay thank you for that.
And then Bert the long-term margin goals for international obviously the world has become more volatile a bit slower input costs have moved up in certain respects versus when you laid out those goals.
Any comments about your ability to still achieve double-digit EBIT margins in international by 2017? We will probably get deeper at CAGNY but I think your point is a good one we have seen depreciating currency not so much in China even though there weve seen slight - that certainly has had an impact.
We continue to invest behind the brands because we think were in the right top line response.
So I always as we think about our margins overseas we could be if you think about 2017 but we think directionally we still in the heading in the right direction our China margins are very very close to company average which is our biggest expanding business.
And right now we are seeing a blip in our exports and in markets like Brazil.
So there is certainly possibly we could be off by a year but I think directionally we are still on path to get what we said as low double digit like by 17 18 yes.
Okay.
Thanks.
I'll pass it off.
Your next question comes from the line of David Driscoll with Citi.
Wanted to ask a question here about pricing.
I think on the last conference call you guys discussed 2015 pricing to be up about 6.5 points.
And I think today you're saying 2015 pricing up 5 to 6 points.
Maybe on one side of it 50 bips maybe that's just in the margin of commentary.
But the low end of 5% seems considerably lower than what you were talking about last quarter for 2015 price realization.
Can you guys just talk about today's thoughts on pricing? I dont recall the exact commentary from Q3 at this time but obviously you know when looking at the sales target this year in general it is little bit lower than what we provided back in October.
I mean obviously it does reflect how we exited the year particularly in the FDMx or call it legacy.
Legacy channels thats certainly is part of it as well.
Okay.
So what you're saying is that part of this reduction in the revenue guidance is related to pricing not specifically all volume.
I think when I read the release it felt like what you guys were saying was that the volume performance in the non-seasonal was below expectations.
And my interpretation was that was the flow through to 2015.
But I think now you're saying that it's a combination of both lower price expectations in 2015 and lower volume expectations in 2015 versus prior guidance.
I think excluding the M&amp;A the 3 to 5% reflects M&amp;A roughly a half of point greater than our expectation.
Some of the international headwinds that Bert talked about on the international business that will have ending up around 10% up in 2015.
And then again some of the trend certainly not getting back to what we thought it would be in the non seasonal business exiting in the fourth quarter.
We think if it gets better what it probably is not going to get a bigger pick up until post Easter and the second quarter when some of the innovation starts to launch there.
When you guys talked in your script about higher advertising running ahead of re-rated sales growth in 2015 can I just be slightly more clear about this? This seems like it's vastly higher.
So if we have 135 basis points of gross margin expansion I think the math comes out to somewhere between a 20% or 25% increase to the A&amp;C budget.
Is that the right neighborhood to think about or is there something else going on in the G&amp;A line that would require a substantial investment? Yeah let me try to clarify that for you below gross margin.
What J.P.
mentioned was that certainly our advertising would be higher year-on-year and were talking in the neighborhood of two times sales.
There is something that you should try to understand on SG&amp;A.
The SG&amp;A as we planned it out with M&amp;A is going to be in the mid-teens.
If you strip Alan Candy crave which we're expecting will close in the first quarter.
And then the biggest piece by far Shanghai Golden Monkey that gets you down sort of the high single digits.
And it's that mid teen to high single digits with and without M&amp;A so apples-to-apples that should make it sort to think about what happens below that.
Not that advertising up 20% we are saying it's going to be up around two times sales.
That's extremely helpful.
Because that part of it's hard to forecast.
Just final question from me then is that when you just simplify all of this your expectations for U.S.
category growth in the chocolate candy category is more or less something around 3% 3.5% for 2015? Is that right? That's right.
Okay.
That's all I needed.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel.
Just two quick questions for you.
If I could follow on the line of questioning Dave had there.
As I look at the fourth-quarter it's not clear to me why the U.S.
gets better.
That is that you had a high degree of elasticity.
So is it as simple as and you've given us some good information your sales reps and the increase in coverage there the increase in marketing or advertising would help certainly as well.
Anything else that we're not considering maybe is there a larger new product benefit for the coming year things that can help us get a little comfort around that 4% to 6% underlying growth.
One thing I would mention Chris and I know there were lot of moving parts in the fourth quarter but certainly in the North America business the third quarter one point time shift because of the volume certainly that was a headwind in the - for the fourth quarter but there were some positive that we certainly saw in the fourth quarter.
I mean we saw the C-store class of trade did very well at the high end of our 3% to 4% long term category growth rates.
One of our largest retail partner was - had takeaway in the fourth quarter certainly greater than the 3% to 4% dollars store continue to do well.
In the trends that we  again and we are seeing very early in January are in pace with that certainly in some of the FDMx again building not quite at the level of those other channels but getting better than we had given up the fourth quarter.
So those are some signs of encouragement there.
You know a couple of other things as you start to lap the SNAP which was an event that back in November the previous year in 2013 so you start to get that back into the base.
And then I think the unknown and keep in mind we never talk about gas prices in terms of leading sales up and down.
So in difficult times we seem to be pretty good in terms of those linkages.
However what we don't know to answer to yet I dont think is that the real income that the lower fuel prices are bringing to consumers is really significant.
So how that makes it way through to behavior I dont think we know yet but I think thats more likely a positive than a negative I would say for food in general and consumer products in general and then obviously were going to fight for our share there.
I guess the way to think about it and hopefully youve this team now is that and to clarify maybe what Bert said we continue to feel very good about our business within CMG.
I think Bert has set a category previous we actually think the category could be some that we think we will be better than the category.
And well gain shares just as we did this year and our result - if you look first half second half from a takeaway and share perspective they are much different profiles.
That's good.
Just a quick one if I could.
The Krave acquisition I see a lot of ways in which that fits and you're operating the same channels.
It's obviously snacking category.
I think at first glance and I wrote a note to this effect and I'm sure that you've as well.
It's just that it's a very different category for you from an input cost standpoint.
And I'm just curious should we assume that there are the snacking categories beyond the obvious confectionary categories where Hershey will be looking in the future to bolster its growth? I think the simplest way for me to address that is as you get to learn more about Krave youll really see how the positioning of the brand we believe is very on trend and creates differentiation within that segment.
Were always looking for both in our product development as well as potential acquisitions for things and we believe could fit well with portable nutrition and broader snacking.
We will always be diligent to not distract ourselves from the core business that were in but we are also in the consumer products business and have to make sure that were meeting what consumers are always desiring.
We think thats definitely within the core businesses that were in.
And we think because of our go-to-market capabilities our R&amp;D and ability to make things taste great that there are opportunities for us in broader snacking.
Thats good.
Thank you for your time.
Operator we have time for one more question.
Thank you.
Your final question comes from the line of Ken Zaslow with Bank of Montreal.
Not to belabor the point but I guess taking a bigger picture look at this.
Do you think your long-term growth algorithm both not only one just a sales line but also on the bottom line is a little bit more challenged because as it seems like Hershey needs to take greater risks in terms of product integration.
You're taking more risks on acquisitions more risk on creating a new brand having to add new salespeople.
It feels like we're going into a different era with Hershey versus two or three years ago where it was not low hanging fruit but a little bit easier to get the growth and now it seems a lot more challenging and you have to do bigger risk items for it.
Can you comment on that? Well first I tell you it feel challenging every day but you know I think the way to think about it is we feel good about our long term guidance.
We know that theres going to be these periods of times where theres pressure on businesses and you know if we look back Im sure over our 120 year history and I remember hearing people talk about cocoa being at $7 000 a ton and the world was going to end.
There are always these periods of times which seem more challenging maybe than others.
But if you think about our footprint and our portfolio the countries that were focused against despite there maybe currency headwinds and these kinds of things these are some of the best high growth GDP markets around.
We don't have a lot of legacy businesses that we have to drag along with it.
I look at China by itself and largely we're a Hersheys business there more specifically were a Hershey's kisses businesses there.
As we expand our category our portfolio within the category that gives us a tremendous amount of runway.
We advertise in - like I think only about 20% or 25% of the cities that the leading competitor in the market does.
So as we continue to expand that and our household penetration grows we can talk about whats the right GDP for China but if think about an emerging middle class and our portfolio over time we have a tremendous amount of runway there.
And so as we execute against our business model in a thoughtful plan-full way we have this very precious North American business that I have a tremendous amount of confidence in.
I think that our guidance is absolutely right for the long term.
We want to continue to be acquisitive and so I think we've got great future.
And my just final -- just add on a little question is the skill set for Hershey in terms of being very focused on chocolate is that your ability to hedge and just understand the input costs associated with Hershey is far superior - because of your knowledge base.
Now you're getting into a meat category which has a whole another host of issues which buying and selling.
Does that raise concerns for you? Well we have people in our organization in specifically in our both R&amp;D as well as our supply chain that have a lot of experience in their background specifically within protein and in meats.
So while it maybe a new endeavor for some of our folks its certainly not for all of our people were acquiring what we thing are people with great skill sets.
Obviously well do everything we can to learn as much about the business as fast as we can.
But when you think about food science we have a technical center with 250 professionals sitting over there many of them PhDs in food science and they already are experts in proteins.
We certainly dont go into anything with any arrogance were going to be eager to learn but we also believe that we bring some capabilities to the category that will service as well.
Great.
I thank you very much All right.
Thank you for joining us today and we'll see you all in a few weeks at the CAGNY conference.
That does conclude today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Steve and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Hershey Company's First Quarter 2015 Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Mark Pogharian you may begin your conference.
Thank you Steve.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to The Hershey Company's first quarter 2015 conference call.
J.P.
Bilbrey Chairman President and CEO and I will provide you with an overview of results followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Let me remind everyone listening that today's conference call may contain statements which are forward looking.
These statements are based on current expectations which are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements because of factors such as those listed in this morning's press release and in our 10-K for 2014 filed with the SEC.
If you have not seen the press release a copy is posted on our corporate website in the Investor Relations section.
Included in the press release is a consolidated balance sheet and a summary of consolidated statements of income prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Within the Notes section of the press release we have provided adjusted pro forma reconciliations of select income statement line items quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.
The company uses these non-GAAP measures as key metrics for evaluating performance internally.
The non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP rather the company believes the presentation of earnings and excluding certain items provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations.
As a result we will discuss 2015 first quarter results excluding net pretax charges of $9.7 million or $0.02 per share diluted and gain on the sale of a trademark of $10 million or $0.03 per share diluted.
Our discussion of any future projections will also exclude the impact of these net charges.
With that out of the way let me turn the call over to J.P.
Bilbrey.
Thanks Mark and good morning to everyone on the phone and webcast.
While our sales and earnings performance for the quarter was mixed I was happy with the progress that we've made in key areas particularly in the U.S.
business were operating and marketplace performance was in line with our expectations.
We completed the Krave acquisition towards the end of March and we began the integration work.
We can now begin to share snaking inside related to consumer and market segmentation as well as distribution in channel opportunities.
As we said in January at that CAGNY we expected first quarter sales and earnings to be pressured to the Easter timing as seasonal net sales occurred at pre price increased levels.
However Q1 results were lower than we anticipated due to some unexpected softness in China.
The weakness was across the majority of the consumer package good space in the China modern trade.
The acceleration of this softness in the first quarter versus Q4 was unexpected.
Chocolate was one of the few categories in Chinese that grew in the first quarter although less than last year.
In China Hershey's slightly outpaced the category and gained market share.
However the pace of growth slowed significantly.
Mark will provide you with additional financial details.
So let me give you an overview of the business.
Overall total company Q1 net sales excluding the impact of unfavorable foreign exchange rates increased 4.6% driven primarily by pricing and net benefit from acquisitions of 1.6 points.
Unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate was 1.1 headwinds.
Our expectation was for adjusted earnings per share diluted to be about the same as last year.
So the $1.9 that we earned was largely due to lower than expected international sales growth.
Including Easter's seasonal activity and the year ago in current period the candy mint and gum or CMG category increased 3.9% for the 12 weeks ended March 21 2015 within the xAOC+C channels.
Gum continues to underperformed and excluding yet the chocolate non-chocolate and mint categories increased about 4.2%.
Excluding Easter's seasonal activity in the current and year ago period combined growth of chocolate non-chocolate and mints was up 3%.
Hershey first quarter CMG retail takeaway and the xAOC+C universe was 4.6% benefiting from an Easter versus last year.
We had a good Easter and believe we will gain share in this important season.
Excluding Easter seasonal sales Hershey's everyday marketplace performance continues to improve.
Specifically Hershey's xAOC+C CMG retail takeaway for the 12 weeks ending March 21st excluding Easter seasonal sales in the current and year ago period increase plus 3.1%.
Perhaps the easiest way to assess performance given seasonal timing is by looking at absolute market share results.
We gained market share both with and without the Easter seasonal activity.
All in including the seasonal activity Hershey first quarter CMG market share in the xAOC+C universe increased plus 0.2 points.
U.S.
first quarter organic net sales of nearly 3% seasonal sales roughly one quarter of our business in the first quarter declined year-over-year due to a shorter Easter season.
This was more than offset by our everyday business which I'm pleased to say increased mid-single digits on a percentage basis versus last year.
This is slightly ahead of everyday retail takeaway of 3.1% due to the timing and shipments of second quarter promotions and new products.
In the second quarter we believe our everyday momentum will continue with the broader roll out and launch of Ice Breakers Cool Blast Chews Hershey's Caramels and additional Lancaster Cream flavors.
In Hershey's first quarter xAOC+C chocolate retail takeaway excluding Easter was up 3.3% resulting in chocolate market share gains in 0.6 points.
Importantly retail takeaway was solid across many of core chocolate franchises including Reese's Hershey's Kit Kat Kisses and Brookside.
Switching to non-chocolate candy or NCC in the xAOC+C channels Hershey's NCC business excluding Easter in the current and year ago period declined 2% as we were lapping the year ago launch of the Lancaster product line.
We anticipate that our NCC performance will be a bit better over the next couple of quarters supported by Lancaster in store sampling events national FSIs and some summer fun flavors of Twizzlers.
While not as large as chocolate at NCC we continue to do well within the gum and the mint categories specifically our Q1 gum and mint retail takeaway within the xAOC+C universe was up 11% and 10.5% respectively.
As a result our gum market share increased by 0.4 points to 5.2% our mint market share increased 0.7 points expanding our segment leading position to 40.3%.
In the C store classic trade where the seasonal impacts are minimal the CMG category was up 5.1% driven by pricing.
As it relates to the previously announced price increase volume elasticity trends are tough to discern in the xAOC universe given the influence of seasonal candy on shelf at pre price increase levels.
However conversion appears to be on track.
Total Hershey's C store performance was solid with retail takeaway up plus 4.8% it was driven by pricing of 9-10 points offset by volume elasticity of about 5%.
This is relatively in line with our modeling for this channel our C store chocolate and mint retail takeaway was particularly solid up 4.9% and 8.9% respectively.
These gains were driven by core brand advertising in store selling merchandizing and programming.
International results were mixed in the first quarter giving greater than expected unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates and China retail softness that impacted overly grocery as well as the chocolate category growth.
Recall during last quarter's conference call we stated that chocolate category growth in China was about 8% and that was less than the historical 10-11%.
In the first quarter chocolate category growth was 4% again softer than we would have anticipated and less than the year ago period.
Given the Chinese New Year holiday the first quarter is typically the biggest quarter of the year for chocolate consumption.
Some of this softness is most likely due to government policy related to gifting however macroeconomic news indicates things have significantly slowed and this could be impacting overall consumer confidence.
This is evident when looking at Nielsen data for the broader CBG group which was also soft.
Our chocolate retail takeaway in China was about 5% in the first quarter resulting in a market share gain of 0.1 point.
In all of the markets where we operate our goal is to ship to consumption so the consumer has a good experience related to freshness and taste.
Therefore our China first quarter net sales moderated and declined 47% versus year ago.
We will continue to execute against plans with our retail partners in China to drive store traffic and in store activity over the remainder of the year.
As a result our China chocolate plan reflects the first quarter miss and remains relatively intact versus our initial plan.
We have made some adjustments on how well get there.
We expect to enter some Tier 2 cities will increase the level of in store sampling to drive everyday trail and repeat.
Additionally we're beginning to get Brookside out into the market and using Golden Monkey distributor assets that help us to achieve that.
Shanghai Golden Monkey integration is progressive.
In the first quarter Golden Monkey was diluted to our earnings.
However results will be stronger in the second half of the year supported by a solid pipeline of snack and non-chocolate candy new products.
In Mexico first quarter constant currency net sales increased about 16%.
As expected our business is sequentially improved over the last three quarters as consumers have adjusted to the VAT tax instituted last year.
Importantly the chocolate category increased about 13%.
We estimate that Hershey's retail takeaway was up about 12% driven by Hershey's spikes and a King Size Q1 event at some selected retailers.
Over the remainder of the year we have a lot of in store activity planned to highlighting new packaging designs and pack types that we believe will generate solid net sales growth.
In Brazil first quarter constant currency net sales increased about 18% results benefited from an easy comp versus the year ago period and an earlier Easter.
Although note that we don't have a broad Easter portfolio on Brazil as the big Kiss offering is our primary seasonal item.
Hershey's Tablet Bar performance was good and while all small Reese is starting to gain attraction in Brazil.
Despite mixed international results in the first quarter we remain confident about plans over the remainder of the year.
Weve made adjustments where necessary and have the right mix of innovation and in-store activities to achieve our objectives.
Our international growth profile excluding Golden Monkey is similar to prior years and driven by performance in the second half particularly the fourth quarter.
However foreign currency exchange rates remain volatile and over the remainder of the year the other favorable impact on net sales is expected to be greater than our previous estimate.
Given this backdrop and first quarter softness in China we now expect international net sales excluding the benefit of Golden Monkey to increase about 5% versus our previous expectation of about 10% increased.
Now to wrap up.
Core brand merchandising programming and innovation accelerates over the remainder of the year.
There is no change to our advertising and marketing methodology and we continue to expect that it will increase at a rate greater than net sales growth.
We believe these investments should generate full year organic net sales growth or constant currency sales excluding M&amp;A and FX impacts of around 3.5% to 4.5% in 2015.
We expect foreign exchange rates to be greater than our previous testament by about a half a point and be about 1.5 points unfavorable in 2015.
We continue to estimate that the net contribution from acquisitions and divestitures will be around 2.5 points.
With the profitable U.S.
business on track and increase in gross margin expansion and Golden Monkey accretion later in the year we expect an increase in 2015 full year adjusted earnings per share diluted of 8% to 10% including dilution from acquisitions and divestitures of $0.03 to $0.05 per share.
Before we provide you with additional financial details I'd like to take this opportunity to welcome Patricia Little our CFO as of March 16.
Patricia is a season financial leader who knows how to create shareholder value and develop talent and we believe will be a benefit to our global organization and all of our shareholders.
Thanks J.P.
I'm pleased to be here and it's a privilege to be part of the Hershey team especially given the many opportunities in front of us.
I follow the consumer package goods states as a board member at another company.
So while Im a bit familiar with the category I still have a lot to learn over the coming months.
However in my first few weeks on the job it's clear and the confectionary category are advantaged.
Our business is growing in the profitable North America market and in our focus international markets the category has a long runway.
I'm committed to long term value creation as is our board of directors and look forward to helping our company reach its potential.
Overtime I look forward to meeting all of you and sharing what I learned and opportunities that continue to exist for the Hershey company.
With that let me turn it over to Mark who will provide you with further information on first quarter results.
Thank you Patricia.
Good morning to everyone on the phone and webcast.
First quarter net sales of 1.9 billion was up 3.5% versus the prior year excluding the negative impact from foreign currency exchange rates of 1.1 point about half a point greater than estimate net sales increased 4.6%.
The fluctuation in the Canadian dollar was responsible for about half of that FX impact and the Mexican peso and Brazilian real the majority of the remainder.
As we indicated last quarter given a shorter Easter volume elasticity related to the U.S.
price increase and the timing of innovation we expected consolidated net sales growth in Q1 to be around the low end of our long-term target.
However we didn't anticipate the anomaly in China that J.P.
referred to.
Pricing and net M&amp;A was at 3.8 point and 1.6 point benefits.
Partially offset by volume that was 0.8 point headwinds.
Importantly North America organic net sales excluding FX and M&amp;A increased 3.4% relatively in line with our expectations.
North America pricing up 4.3 points was partially offset by volume that was up 0.9 points due to elasticity related to the price increase and lower seasonal sales.
International and other segments net sales increased 8.5% driven by the Golden Monkey acquisition a 13.3 point benefit while FX was a 4.8 point headwind.
International and other segment organic net sales were about the same as last year.
As we stated in January first quarter EPS would be pressured our expectation was for adjusted EPS to be about the same as last year due to seasonal product sales that accorded a pre-price increase level and our plan for higher SM&amp;A expenses.
However we did not anticipate the lower levels of growth in China within the biggest cities and hyper markets.
This impacted chocolate categories growth in the quarter as well as some of our decisions related to Golden Monkey go to market strategies.
Hence adjusted EPS diluted of a $1.9 down about 5% versus last year was off versus our plan primarily due to China chocolate sales and Golden Monkey dilution.
Turning now to margins in the first quarter adjusted gross margin increased 10 basis points driven by supply chain productivity and cost savings initiatives as well as the net price realization which more than offsets higher input cost earlier this month we implemented select input cost strategies that we believe will enable gross margin to increase a 155 to a 165 basis points for the full year.
Adjusted EBIT in the first quarter declined 5.6% versus last year resulting in adjusted EBIT margin of 20.3%.
The decline was driven by higher SM&amp;A expenses that increased 12.3% versus last year.
Looking at a couple of the pieces advertising and related consumer marketing expense increased about 8% selling marketing and administrative expenses excluding advertising and related consumer marketing increased about 15%.
This increase reflects the addition of Golden Monkey investments in mark-to-market capabilities in the US and the international markets as well as knowledge based consumer insights.
Let me now provide you with a brief update on the international business.
Similar to prior years our expectation entering 2015 was for international net sales growth would be back half weighted.
We still believe that will be the case given our plans for advertising merchandizing programming and new products.
Q1 international net sales increased 8.8%.
Note that this excludes global retail and licensing results which was relatively in line with expectations.
Looking at our focus markets we believe China chocolate category softness was impacted by consumer confidence given all the negative headlines you've all see like slowing GDP growth.<br> Although we were encouraged that March Nielsen data showed an acceleration in category growth versus January and February.
Over the remainder of the year we expect net sales growth in China to sequentially improve although it will be driven by performance in the second half of the year.
We've adjusted our China plans to generate greater in store activities support faster growth in the hyper markets we'll be entering some Tier 2 cities and we have plans to increase our exposure in the fast growing e-commerce channel.
On a constant currency basis net sale in Mexico and Brazil increased mid-teens on a percentage basis versus last year due to easier comps.
Recall that at the beginning of '14 we had the headwind of the back tax in [inactive] in Mexico and volume elasticity related to the price increase in Brazil.
We expect Mexico and Brazil performance to be better than last year however we expect the Real and Pesos to remain volatile and be a major headwind related to reported net sales.
Moving down to P&amp;L first quarter interest expense of 19.2 million declined 2.2 million versus last year.
For the full year we continue to expect interest expense to be in the $75 million to $80 million range.
The adjusted tax rate for the first quarter was 35% in line with our estimate.
For the full year we expect the adjusted net tax rate to be slightly lower than the year ago rate of 34.5%.
This is a little different from our initial analysis and guidance that the full year adjusted tax rate would be about the same as last year.
For the first quarter of 2015 weighted average shares outstanding on a diluted basis were approximately 222.7 million a 1.9% decline compared to last year.
Turning now to the balance sheet and cash flow at the end of the first quarter net trading capital increased versus last year's first quarter by 69.2 million account receivable was lower by 13.8 million and remains extremely current.
Inventory was higher by 67 million and accounts payable declined by 16 million.
The net increase in trading capital was driven by acquisitions excluding net acquisitions and divestitures net trading capital increased 7 million.
In terms of other specific cash flow items total capital additions including software were 62.7 million in the first quarter for the year we expect total capital expenditures to be about 375 million to 400 million including capital related to the Johor Malaysia project of about a 110 million.
Excluding this project CapEx is about 275 million or about 3.5 % of net sales.
Depreciation and amortization was 58.3 million in the first quarter in line with our estimates during the first quarter dividends paid were over 114 million.
The company repurchased a $173 million of outstanding shares in the first quarter against a February 2014 authorization which is now complete; no shares have been purchased against the $250 million authorization approved in February 2015.
This authorization is in addition to the company's policy of repurchasing shares in the open market related to issues in connection with stock option exercises.
In the first quarter the company repurchased a $134 million of common shares to replace shares issued in connection with exercise of stock options.
Cash and short term investments at the end of the first quarter were up 405 million.
As J.P.
summarized in 2015 we have a solid pipeline of innovation merchandising and programming.
In addition marketing expense is expected to increase that greater than net sales growth.
As a result we expect 2015 net sales to increased 4.5% to 5.5% including a net contribution from acquisitions and divestitures of around 2.5 points and the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates of about 1.5 points.
Excluding these items organic net sales are expected to increase 3.5% to 4.5% versus the previous 4% to 6%.
While we remain confident in our business plans a narrowing of the sales range reflects to global macroeconomic challenges that continue to persist.
But decline of the lower end of the range by half of point primarily reflects the first quarter China underperformance.
We continue to have a significant focus on gross margin and expect that the previously announced price increase as well as productivity and cost savings to result in gross margin expansion of 155 to 165 basis points.
Combined with a slightly lower net cash rate and Golden Monkey accretion in the second half of the year adjusted earnings per share diluted is expected to increase 8% to 10%.
Before we open it up to Q&amp;A just a couple of thoughts on the second quarter.
We have planned to generate solid gross margin expansion over the remaining quarters.
However the second quarter is typically our smallest quarter as it relates to overall net sales.
And our international sales profile is similar to prior year with annual growth primarily driven by fourth quarter performances.
Additionally Golden Monkey will be dilutive in the second quarter before ramping up in the second half of the year.
While small [crave] margins are lower than the company average and it will also contributes to the increase in total consolidated SM&amp;A expenses in the second quarter.
Therefore second quarter net sales including M&amp;A and FX is expected to be at near the low end of our full year sales target of 4.5% to 5.5% before accelerating in the second half of the year.
Given all these moving parts we expect second quarter EPS diluted growth to be pressured and around the same as last year.
Thank you for your time this morning and we'll now take any questions that you may have.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Your line is open.
If the more sizable part of the top line weakness in the quarter as you talked about was international and SGM I just want to make sure that I'm clear on why the these full year organic sales target is coming down? Is it just the organic piece of the international particularly China that you talked about or is there some North American angle to that as well? I just want to make sure that's not changed.
It is the China flow through at the first quarter Andrew that youre seeing; the U.S.
business [indiscernible] is off to a good start and is forecasted to be as we anticipated earlier in the year.
Okay and then despite this [indiscernible] the sales weakness in SGM I guess you talked about still looking for the same full year contribution from acquisitions but I guess you only have I think maybe two quarters left to make up for that first quarter weakness in SGM because I think you start lapping it in the fourth quarter if I'm not mistaken.
So I'm just trying to get sense of what gives the comfort level there that the acquisition contribution can still be the same despite the first quarter? Yes that's correct.
Last year we had two months if you recall from Golden Monkey and the fourth quarter.
And as we start of the year we had a similar pattern as we did in the chocolate business we were lower in terms of the Chinese New Year.
What we have in Golden Monkey which is different than the regular chocolate businesses we have a part of the business which is not so seasonal which is the [bean curve] business and we also have a lot of innovation which kicks in after new year and that's been the typical pattern where we have distributor meetings early in the second quarter for that innovation and there is a very strong innovation pipeline for that.
And so our expectation is that we will be on target for that accretion during the full year and that will come into back half.
The other small acquisitions and divestitures whether the Mauna Loa or Krave kind of offset each other.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Just the follow up to Andrew's question and I just want to make sure I called all these pieces the -- in the first quarter the downside relative to your internal plans was really partly at least more dilution from Shanghai Golden Monkey.
But for the full year you're not -- you expecting the dilution to be similar or the same in terms of what you thought it was going to beginning at the year? But it sounds like you're going to spend more money for some of this in market activity to try to boost sales.
So trying to piece those pieces together.
Why it wouldn't be more diluted if youre having to spend more money to drive sales special since it was already more dilutive than you thought in the first quarter.
So am I thinking about that correctly I guess? Yes not partially -- not exactly.
Let me explain.
We always said Shanghai Golden Monkey would be slight accretive to the year and all were trying to do is reconfirm that despite a slower start attributable to new year.
We did have -- Obviously lower operating income in the rest of the China business for the same reason that we had a slower start.
What we're saying in this case is that the Shanghai Golden Monkey's slight accretion to the year remains intact based on the activity progress that we have in place.
In terms of you know higher spending were not projecting higher spending in the international business in terms of getting back to you know our targets for the year and we're also given the magnitude of the China sales miss we're not projecting that we can make up that sales miss which is part of what Mark explained on the call down on the lower end.
We do have higher year-on-year cost in the sales force that's our program as we actively go into more cities and we did still have advertising in the first quarter during Chinese New Year although it certainly wasn't as effective as we thought it would be.
And those comments are related to the China chocolate business Brian so it's not only did you have the SEM dilution you had all the investments we made in the China chocolate business throughout '14 that happened perhaps in the back half that are [indiscernible] that are in your pace that will be in the pace of the first half this year.
Okay.
Like in sales force et cetera.
And then just one last follow up to that is just it sounds like you know in terms of when you built this plan in I guess October and November versus where we are today Chinese New Year was weaker than expected and a lot of this I guess is more macro its not just specific to Hershey and so I guess as you go forward in terms of as you've done the planning going forward has it incorporated that maybe that you know the macro environment is just not as strong as it was when you initially planned 2015 or is the expectation that it's the same? I'm just trying to understand how it accounts for what seems like just slower growth generally in China.
We've taken that into account and as we looked to your point as we developed the plan last year and we said during the January call that we expected Chinese growth to be approximately the 30% that we grew in '14 so we weren't -- while we were seeing some slowdown let's call it in December we weren't planning for as poor a performance.
We know we think there's a lot of this is cyclical based on what you're hearing GDP consumer confidence things that we've already mentioned.
We dont think it's as much structural in fact some of the structural changes we think actually help us in the long run things like urbanization as well as more of a consumer economy which is what the government's pushing but we've lowered certainly the overall year expectations as you know we said we'd be somewhere around 30 and that the category would be in the low double digits.
We certainly lowered that to high single digit.
Still think we can do two-three times the category growth rate but we certainly lowered that overall year expectation not trying to make up the first quarter.
Let me just add one other comment it's really important for the perspective of our company in China is we continue to be in a brand building and portfolio expansion mode Shanghai Golden Monkey is of course critical for the distribution build of that and so we really continue -- we believe we have the right brands the right growth plan markets will moderate as we're certainly seeing right now over time but on a long term basis we continue to believe our model's a good model obviously volume is a magic elixir on some of these things so you also have to manage pace in investment along with that but we really believe that we have the right plans in place and over time well continue to grow in China mainly around distribution and portfolio expansion for the near term anyway.
Thank you our next question comes from the line of Ken Goldman with JP Morgan; your line is open  I had a question for Patricia if I could and first welcome to the food industry I'm curious and I realize it's still early days right but is there anything you're seeing that you might consider sort of low hanging fruit you'd like to pick I dont know whether that's in the balance sheet or M&amp;A strategy really anything is there something you're looking at and saying you know what we can and I guess should be doing this differently.
Thanks for the question I don't think it's so much that I'm going to come in with those kinds of answers what I've seen is leadership team here who's really focused on all of those things on the M&amp;A on the cost leverage on how they manage the brands on how they focus on growth both in North America and the key focus markets I view my job as to be really a catalyst to help that team bring all of their great ideas to fruition so I wouldn't say that there's low hanging fruit that I come in to see what I see is a group that's working on all of those very actively.
Okay and then this is a question just one more for anyone really you're one of the first food companies to report since the Kraft Heinz deal and I recognize you've already made significant improvements to your cost base over the years and I appreciate you're more of a growth company right than either Kraft or Heinz but I guess when you read some of the -- read about some of the massive margin improvements 3G is able to implement you know I guess on some level do you think to yourself boy there's maybe there's a lot more we can do than what we're currently planning on or do you say this is our plan we'll need to balance top line growth with margins and so forth? Im just curious how you react what seems to be a continued trend here in food.
So I think as you rightly point out we're very focused on growth we've been investing in our business is about the new geographies and I think very importantly in capabilities.
So I cant specifically talk about 3G what I do thing is very important and as I mentioned on the last call at CAGNY we're really looking about -- were really looking at how we evolve our business mode how we allocate and reallocate resources against what we believe are opportunity youve heard us talk about knowledge and insight.
We continue to believe that's really important and we're investing in different skill sets there than we have and so we have to be mindful at the pace of our business.
We have to make sure that the volume continues to be the elixir that makes all things affordable.
So you should expect us to continue to take hard look at the leverage we have against our P&amp;L and youll hear us talk a bit more about that we're doing a lot of work in that area.
But I think for our company we strongly believe that there has to be an ongoing balance between brand building and P&amp;L leverage.
That obviously takes cost as one of the key leverage but we want to make sure that we maintain the right balance and focus on all those things.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from line of John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
John as you look to your cost basket here gross margin are tracking bit more favorably relative to your last update and with that sailing going for you do you find your still needing to reinvest the incremental benefit in sales force or marketing or have you reached the position where SG&amp;A budget is more of less fixed and those cost can flow through more to products going forward? Well I think that there is a couple of thing to probably seeing as we raised our gross margin outlook part of that is around commodities and input cost and then as I said we want to make sure that we continue to look at the levers that we put in place.
So yes we've invested in our selling capabilities and we want continue to invest in our brands some of that's in our international markets but it's also importantly in our U.S.
market as well where we get the right see store level of coverage where we get the right frequency in stores so that we can win in merchandising and so if we look at our overall business model we think weve got the right approach.
And to make sure that you continue to be reassured that we are mindful about what we can afford and non-afford obviously we want to make sure that we continue to grow into those investments at the appropriate pace.
But I think over the long-term again we're really committed to our business model and we also feel good about the markets that we're in.
We think we're in the right markets long-term and it will have to whether some of the volatility of the short-term up and downs.
But we're in this business to stay were been here a long time and we planned to be here either longer.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from line of Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Couple of questions I guess kind of following up.
This is -- should we read this like select input cost strategies as a kind of one time in nature? I mean did you like just favorably locking some hedges or something that makes this -- the gross margin improvements locked in for this year? I think Eric we look at what we believe are the right strategies to protect our brand investment in our pricing and our -- I would just reiterate that we can be anywhere between 3 and 24 months hedged on some of our key commodities.
Certainly cocos been volatile so weve looked for opportunities to price went we think the -- it's a good value and then the entire industry is getting some benefit out of dairy and you know well I'm not trying to predict where dairy goes it feels as though its in a direction which could benefit.
But if you look at lot of the tree nuts and so forth those are going up largely and so again we try to look at the overall commodity basket and we feel pretty good about how we've been able to take a forward view to protect our current plans.
Okay and then -- thanks for that.
And then just kind of talking about the U.S.
business overall I mean as I've been travelling around -- again it's not a scientific sample but it just seems like there is more promotion in the market I see kind of BOGO it seems like a lot of the pegboard and mini products that have been introduced in past years are on sale a lot I think J.P.
you've mentioned in the past seeing more kind of snack based competition and so maybe can you just talk a little bit about what you're seeing in market and is that are those observations fair appraisal? Eric I think what we would say is that across snacking we are seeing that there is a lot of activity out there if you look at the overall snacking wheel and the share performance you can see that there's been some moderation there with the exception that CMG is sort of returning more to its historical performance base youve see meat snacks which continues to perform really well and obviously we're encouraged by Krave.
But I think we're in an era where the snacking continuum and the occasions of snacking are broadening and therefore consumer choice is greater and so we have to work hard at making sure that at the point of sale our brands are winning in terms of merchandizing etc.
Ill tell you the one thing that if I -- as I personally have a takeaway from the first quarter that I feel better about than anything else we probably could talk about on this call is that we're seeing a strengthening in our everyday business and if you take Easter out and you know all of the previous quarters and all and you just look at what's the health of the everyday business.
We're doing a -- our everyday brands are up and importantly that's always a measure of advertising effectiveness.
So the combination of advertising working for us and seeing our everyday business improving outside of that environment that is a very very healthy sign and for me that's the thing I feel best about in the entire first quarter.
Thank you our next question comes from the line of David Driscoll with Citi Research your line is open.
Wanted to follow up on two points the first one on Ken's question regarding kind of the cost structure of the company.
J.P.
I think you indicated in the release here that SG&amp;A investment kind of excluding the acquisitions was up about 10%.
Yes I think over the years you guys have really been adding to your capabilities within that line and the question here is is all of that 10% increase focused on these emerging market opportunities or how much of it is really focused on the U.S.
And then how do you think about that in light of Kraft-Heinz and [ZBB] and all of these commentary regarding the US marketplace where it seems as if folks are really taking costs out of their U.S.
operations not putting them in.
Well I think David first of all a couple of things I would tell you that as consumer insight driven company a brand building company we're going to always be focused on growth and growing our brand.
The cost is a lever and its an important one so look I mean if we can all capture synergies in our business via acquisitions and add-ons and making sure that we've got P&amp;L leverage we absolutely have to be focused to get that because the investments that we make have to pay for themselves.
But first and foremost we have a business model you know that we want to pursue.
So yes I think there's some very good reminders in the marketplace that suggest that listen you got to make sure you're not getting fat but you also have to make sure that along the way to not getting fat you're allocating resources in a way that you can win in the market place on a go in basis.
So that's important.
If I come back to the first part of your question we're balancing those investments both internationally and in the U.S.
So we've proven over and over again that the passion of our sales organization our feet on the street represent us better than any other choice we could make I've also seen some evidence in the market place where some other companies are coming to that conclusion as well.
But for our company we continue to be focused against those investments and the only way we can grow our brands in these new markets is to forward invest in the capabilities that make them broadly available to consumers and we'll continue to do that.
But well do that in the most effective and efficient way we possibly can.
Okay and just a follow up on international so I think what you guys wrote is that Mexico Brazil and India were up 15% and that was in line with your expectations so that seems to be tracking and then all of this international stuff is related to China that's where the short fall is so hopefully I have that correct and then kind of the question here is you know 47% of course every time you read a number like that on a company like this you do a double take to make sure you didn't misread it.
I think the takeaway here -- but this is the question is the 47% decline in the China business it's an inventory adjustment essentially so that in 4Q you had massive shipments of product to retail anticipating something like a 30% growth in the first quarter in China.
First quarter China retail I think you guys said was 5% for Hershey products and hence that requires a massive change in the shipment pattern in Q1.
[Bert] am I putting all this together right.
Yes let me -- to your first point it is largely China there were other small bits right so there're a couple of our export markets where the dollar is making the product quite expensive example could be an export market like Japan obviously which they're actually in quantitative easing so their currency's going the other way So there were a few markets and certainly our export business was impacted but it was largely a China story in the scheme of things.
And you're quite right as we anticipated the growth in the first quarter for Chinese New Year and didnt see that coming along we obviously shipped less into the marketplace because J.P.
mentioned earlier I think in his remarks we try to ship with the consumption pattern is we don't expect that will be made up in the rest of the years so we've adjusted down or growth although we think the rest of the year should be more normalized than what we saw during the Chinese new year.
Okay.
So kind of short version here is this you do the big catch up in the first quarter to get this thing the distribution inventories on track and then the remaining three quarters are negatively impacted by a fundamental view that the China growth rate is lower than what you had previously thought is that right? I think that's correct.
Again don't forget a lot of the next wave of China business Golden Monkeys is little bit less seasonal does come in the last four months of the year Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line on Jonathan Feeney with Athlos Research.
Your line is open.
Just following up more directly with David here I mean if China was down -- Shanghai Golden Monkey 47% on 5% take away what were you hoping China was going to do in the first quarter? And maybe for the year and approximately by how much -- did you lower that internal forecast? Yes we don't talk about quarters we did say in the first quarter call that we expected the China business to grow around at 30% that we grew last year I think last year we were up 34.
And so we expected to similar growth.
I'll just reiterate we -- that would translate into category and the low double digits we've lowered that to the high single digits reflecting the first quarter miss.
Makes a lot of sense thanks.
And of that growth how much of that is channel penetration of the former Shanghai Golden Monkey -- enabled by the Shanghai Golden Monkey acquisition and if you can -- can you tell us you look at the 13.3 impact I assume that's all from Shanghai Golden Monkey I assume that of this year sales can you tell us what apples-to-apples if it's possible the Shanghai Golden Monkey business is trending? On the first part of your question the synergy aspect of Golden Monkey we're in the very early stages of that so there is very little of that.
And the reason for that is -- as we plan for those synergies; let's take an example chocolate products through Golden Monkey sales force.
We're still on the process of designing different pack size different price points which are more appropriate for those markets.
So there is not a lot of the miss that's accounted for by not penetrating Hershey products to Golden Monkey.
On a year-over-year basis we haven't given that type of information the Golden Monkey certainly had a similar impact in the first quarter as you would see in our chocolate business based on the same lower New Year.
Thank you.
And do you continue to expect that or do you expect that cross selling opportunity once you get through the appropriate pack sizes remains to be significant? Very much.
Well it's not -- well it's all incremental to what their business model has been all along.
A lot of that welcome toward the end of the year as we designed these pack types and we start to launch into the next wave of Chinese new year if you will which comes later in the year but we're fairly confident that we have the right products we have to reconfigure them and they suddenly have the capability to get them into lower Tier cities and traditional trade.
Thanks and I just ask one last question you have a -- in the first quarter clearly you had -- looked like some pretty good in North American performance at least as far as both the everyday business and overall.
And you -- it seems is this gross margin would have outperformed your expectations were it not for the impact of international can you give us a sense -- weighs the full years gross margins so can you give us the sense how much maybe mix or performance in these international business affects gross margin versus if it we're just say in North America that extra growth in international you're expecting affects the consolidated gross margin versus if you're say just North American business experiencing that 4 plus percent pricing in modest line decline thanks I mean Jon I guess the way I would think about it don't forget that seasonal was about 25% to 30% of our overall North America sale so that's why it's not up as much as you would have maybe have anticipated.
Again when you go to some of these international markets the growth -- absolute level of gross margin in China for example would have been down year-over-year when you think about the 5% take away and perhaps how we think about trade there to make sure it all gets out eventually at the end of the day.
So that was the little bit of a drag at the gross margin on the international side.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zaslow with Bank of Montreal.
Your line is open Just two follow ups one is -- I think this is what you said is but the incremental gross margin expansion for your guidance is entirely related to the money environment or there anything operational you are doing to increase that? I didn't get that full answer.
Well I think what is said is is that meaningful piece is really related to the commodity improvement on our input costs and our outlook there.
You also have the benefited mix as you get through the year with the pricing you know that really begins to show up in the US business as well.
So you got a combination of things that are helping us there.
And then as the US business continues to perform well there's always a positive mix effect that happens.
Therefore I made some commentary around the everyday business on one of the earlier questions so I think you've got several factors.
I guess Ken there's no change if you think about the initial 135 to 145 bps its all about the pricing and its the incremental 20 basis point increase is related to the [indiscernible] on the commodity strategy.
Okay great my second question Tier 2 cities when you think of them in China does the long term growth opportunity as well as margin opportunity compare to Tier 1 cities or are they significantly lower how do they scale up over time? No they're -- I mean from a margin perspective they're very comparable.
There are some slight benefits as an example advertising rates are a bit lower as you spread into lower Tier cities.
But there's no penalty in terms of pricing and as you go into Tier 2 and Tier 3 the further down you go obviously the pack size change and there's more traditional trade that's part of the mix.
But that doesn't cause a margin penalty.
The other comment I would just make is that and I kind of come back again to the long term perspective you know the category growth in China and brand building is still the biggest story and what happens with their pace of urbanization obviously everybody wants to participate in that at the same time you have a large dispersement and that's why -- of people and that's why we feel good about the acquisition of Shanghai Golden Monkey and the ability then to put both our brands -- both of the brands of the two entities across our entire distribution chain.
What would make you work for 2016 what would create Chinese growth to be restored to last year's growth level can you speak to that and what would you need to see that would change that would make you think that 2016 could compare with 2014? We haven't started to talk about '16 yet I think that's a little premature I think what I mentioned earlier is that certainly what we see in China today you know feels more cyclical in terms of whats going on with GDP what's going on with consumer sentiment.
You've seen the government react to some degree last weekend I think the Central Bank lowered reserve rates in order to put more monies into the economy particularly for small business.
I think the structural changes favor CPG categories in terms of urbanization which J.P.
mentioned as well as a more consumer oriented economy versus exports so I do see given to see that evolution were structural I think helps us and then the cyclical right now will all have to hold hands and see how soon that gets resolved but I do think that's more cyclical in structure.
Operator we have time for one more question; want to respectful of other peers that are reporting today.
And your next question comes from the line of Alexia Howard your line is open.
Can I ask about the everyday items you mentioned that you were encouraged about that would trend and could you give us some numbers around that? About the progression there maybe first half last year second half last year and then what youve seen this latest quarter.
And what do you think is driving that are you seeing better traffic in the stores you mentioned the advertising effectiveness was another piece of it.
Thank you and I'll pass it on.
Yes Alexia the thing that I would point to and I'll try to give to give you a couple of things here if you look at the quarter Reese's was about nine-tenths of a point Hershey's up 2.4% Kit Kat was up 3.6% Kisses up over 9% and Brookside was a big number and because it's a new brand may not be meaningful to talk about it but it was a big number.
So for me the fact that the everyday ex-Easter was healthy until all of our core brands grew and that's the piece that I was feeling so good about and you know the first quarter last year was -- so some of the comparable in terms of the total CMG may be a little bit harder to look at the first quarter of 2014 last year was up about 4.6% or so and a lot of that was driven by non-chocolate products with Lancaster and some big Twizzlers type promotions.
So if you really isolate our biggest brands and those core brands and look at their performance that really shows you we remember we talked about -- we were going to try to be very focused against merchandizing against our core and big brands making sure they were available to consumers that appears to be working for us.
And to answer your TRIPS question Alexia I would say it looks pretty the [tripped] in by channel.
I mean I think our performance and category performance looks pretty similar to last year we see store dollar in one of the largest retailers in the country continue to really really shine.
I'd make one other point just broadly as I had been out and about talking to retailers and have listened to other manufacturers is people are saying that they believe the basket is more constructive than they've seen for a while so that strengthening of the basket is also probably a really good sign for the overall industry that's a North American comment as well.
Thank you very much and I'll pass it back to you.
Thank you.
Thank you very much for your time today.
I'll be available for any follow up question that any of you have.
This conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning everyone and welcome to The Hershey Company's second quarter 2015 results conference call.
My name is Steve and I'll be your conference operator today.
All participants have been placed in a listen-only mode.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
Mr.
Mark Pogharian you may begin your conference.
Thank you Steve.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to The Hershey Company second quarter 2015 conference call.
J.P.
Bilbrey Chairman President and CEO and Patricia Little Senior Vice President and CFO will provide you with an overview of results which will then be followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Let me remind everyone listening that today's conference call may contain statements which are forward looking.
These statements are based on current expectations which are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements because of factors such as those listed in this morning's press release and in our 10-K for 2014 filed with the SEC.
If you have not seen the press release a copy is posted on our corporate website in the Investor Relations section.
Included in the press release is a consolidated balance sheet and a summary of consolidated statements of income prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Within the note section of the press release we have provided adjusted pro forma reconciliations of select income statement line items quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.
The company uses these non-GAAP measures as key metrics for evaluating the performance internally.
These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP.
Rather the company believes the presentation of earnings excluding certain items provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations.
As a result we will discuss 2015 second quarter results excluding net pre-tax charges of $282 million or $1.23 per share diluted primarily related to a non-cash impairment charge and cost associated with the business productivity initiative announced in June.
Our discussion of any future projection will also exclude the impact of these net charges.
With that out of the way let me turn the call over to J.P.
Bilbrey.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Mark.
I want to thank all of you on the phone line and webcast for joining us today.
And our long-term strategic planning cycle we know there is always the potential for volatility particularly in international markets.
The combination of macroeconomic influences and competitive activity in our core China chocolate business along with disappointing Golden Monkey performance have resulted in negative short-term results in this part of business.
I'll talk more about this in a few minutes.
Importantly we're committed to our long-term strategic plan and believe the balance of performance of the strong North America business and attractive growth opportunities in key international markets should enable us to deliver solid growth over the long term.
Our scale and profitable North American business gives us flexibility in the near term while maintaining focus on building our brands in China Mexico Brazil and India.
The investments we've made in North America over the last few years are paying dividends.
Our focus on consumer capabilities and customer insights provides us with the framework to build our brands with retailers.
We're also working with innovative firms like Palantir that are building our predictive analytical capabilities in the areas of consumer insights and enterprise connectivity.
The implementation of the U.S.
price increase we announced last year is on track and the related CMG volume elasticity is in line with our modeling.
This was partially offset by increased levels of promotions and discounts related to the spreads and baking chips businesses.
Our overall year-to-date U.S.
retail takeaway of 3.1% is in line with our expectations.
However this was impacted by a shorter Easter season.
Looking at the everyday base CMG business retail takeaway was up mid-single digits in the second quarter.
This is a solid indicator that our advertising or pull efforts is working.
Additionally our continued focus on core brands has resulted in market share growth all across The Hershey's Kit Kat Brookside Kisses and Ice Breakers franchises.
We continue to optimize and refine our North America marketing model and execution capabilities.
We're focused on advertising and marketing returns and are optimizing our spending across the portfolio.
For example we are increasing our investment in the highest return chocolate business and increasing digital within our media mix.
We're also leveraging our precision marketing capability to accelerate growth by executing in-store programming against consumer and geographic preferences by store.
Where we're implementing these plans those retailers are outperforming the market.
Nielsen's second quarter measures do not encompass the entire Easter season in both the year ago and current periods.
Therefore my remarks will refer to year-to-date marketplace performance for the 28 weeks ended July 11.
Year-to-date CMG that's candy mint and gum category growth in the xAOC+C channels was up plus 2.7%.
The Hershey's CMG retail takeaway for the year-to-date period through July 11 2015 in channels that account for about 90% of our U.S.
retail business was up 3.1%.
Looking past the Easter timeframe as expected our retail takeaway accelerated and is up 4.8% for the eight weeks ending July 11.
Our overall market share increased to 31.3% an increase of 0.1 points.
Performance by segment is tracking as expected with share gains in chocolate mint and gum.
We're pleased with our chocolate performance where our year-to-date working share is up 0.3 points.
This is partially offset by non-chocolate candy performance where we lost market share as anticipated as we lapped prior-year JOLLY RANCHER line extensions and last year's launch of Lancaster.
We're also making progress within snacks.
Brookside bars are now available with initial demand and velocity we need to be on par with the category leaders.
This launch as well as Snack Bites and Snack Mix products will expand our confection equities to source volume across the broader snacking space.
Recent spread is on track as this flavor profile is differentiated versus the other chocolate spreads within the category.
However the overall jar segment of the chocolate spread category had slowed with household penetration flattish.
The instant consumable segment in the spreads category is growing although it's become more competitive.
The Krave business and integration is on track versus our plans.
Krave is growing faster than all major competitors driven by distribution and velocity gains.
Items per store and merchandising is growing and net sales should nearly double this year.
Outside of the U.S.
in our international markets beyond China business is relatively on track with our plans.
In Mexico net sales in local currency are up mid-single-digits on a percentage basis versus last year and in line with the retail takeaway.
As expected the category at Hershey continue to improve as we lap the VAT tax that was instituted last year.
In Brazil net sales in local currency declined mid-single-digits on a percentage basis versus last year due to the timing of Easter and last year's Reese's launch.
But despite the tough macroeconomic environment year-to-date the chocolate category growth in Brazil has been resilient and is up high single-digits on a percentage basis versus last year.
Our market share in Brazil is up 0.3 points with Hershey's and Reese's continuing to gain traction.
Now let me address the challenges that we're facing in China.
Our chocolate performance this year has been impacted by macroeconomic challenges that we believe impacted shopping behavior.
Recall we gained market share in the first quarter but our growth was lower than the historical performance and our own expectations.
And in the second quarter while category growth returned to low double digits competitive activity increased as manufacturers responded to poor Chinese New Year sell-through.
This resulted in higher levels have increased trade promotion allowance discounts that impacted net sales and profitability.
June year-to-date chocolate category growth in China was nearly 6%.
Hershey year-to-date China chocolate retail takeaway was 4.3% with market share off 0.1 point.
We believe the category will continue to increase at the low double-digit rate we saw in the second quarter putting it on track to be up 8% to 10% for the full year.
Some of the initial work we've done to help ensure that we execute against our plan in China and get back to our winnings ways includes the broader rollout of Brookside Chocolates distribution into smaller format stores and continued focus and acceleration of our e-commerce business.
Our e-commerce business while small is up 60% this year.
We're partnering with key third-party online retailers like Tmall Jingdong and Yihaodian and learning a lot about digital consumers in China that will help us going forward.
China is a priority market for us and we'll be focused on executing against our core brand building business model.
For 120 years our company has persevered and prospered with great people purpose and brands and we believe this model will work in China as we look to gain share in this evolving country and category.
As it relates to Shanghai Golden Monkey I'd like to address some of the factors leading to the estimated impairment charge that we announced in this morning's press release.
As we've indicated previously we acquired the Golden Monkey business to broaden our footprint in China by leveraging both the sales force and the regional and local distributor network in order to diversify Hershey's Chocolate growth which has historically been leveraged to Tier 1 hypermarkets.
Results have been disappointing.
We initially thought this was primarily due to macroeconomic headwinds in China.
As the integration has progressed and the situation on the ground evolved we've come to understand that there are significant business issues that we need to address in order to achieve our goals.
Accounts receivable collection has remained challenging and sales continued to slow in the second quarter.
Our assessment of the distributor network has made it clear that the network is not as stable as we believed and therefore the related retail customer reach is not as broad as we believed it to be.
As a result the sales forecast for the business in 2015 around $90 million is less than our initial expectations of at least $200 million.
This disappointing performance is impacting profitability.
Despite these near-term results we remain committed to the long-term success of this acquisition as well as the China market.
We're taking steps to build a strong foundation for future success including the appointment of a new chairman and general manager for Golden Monkey with solid China consumer packaged goods experience.
We're also looking at the cost structure and different integration strategies that are intended to get the business back on track as quickly as possible.
We'll continue to assess and address these issues and their impact on the value of the business as we work towards acquiring the remaining 20% of the business which we now anticipate will occur in the fourth quarter of 2015.
The timing and terms of the second closing will be informed by the results of our ongoing assessment.
We estimate that our international and other segment net sales will be about $1 billion this year with a chocolate share of nearly 10% in China 14% in Mexico and 5% Brazil.
We like the future growth outlook and prospects of these markets which are an integral part of our international profile.
Now to wrap up core brand merchandising programming and innovation accelerates over the remainder of the year.
With the exception of China there's no change to our advertising and marketing methodology.
In these same markets we continue to refine our plans and we expect North America advertising and related consumer marketing expense to increase at a rate about two times greater than the organic net sales growth rate and it's generating results.
Patricia will provide you with all the details related to the full-year outlook.
But excluding China chocolate M&amp;A and unfavorable FX net sales are expected to be up around 3.5% to 4%.
We feel confident in our North America business plans where we generate the majority of the company's sales and earnings.
The situation continues to evolve in China and our outlook reflects all the inputs that are available to us today.
While further volatility could occur in this market we wouldn't expect it to have a material impact on our cash flow and strong balance sheet.
Our profitable and on-track North America business more than offsets the expected dilution from acquisitions and divestitures primarily Golden Monkey of about $0.20 per share which we expect will result in 2015 full-year adjusted earnings per share diluted growth of 3% to 5%.
Let me end by saying that despite these challenges I am optimistic about our future.
We're focused and know what we need to do to succeed.
We're building strong plans that will put us in a position to win wherever we compete.
I'm very pleased that we continue to work as a focused team across the entire company.
We have experienced leaders in place who have strong records of success and are all focused on increasing value for our shareholders.
Now let me turn it over to Patricia who will provide some additional detail on our financial results.
Thank you J.P.
Good morning to everyone on the phone and on the webcast.
Second quarter net sales of $1.58 billion were in line with our revised guidance and generated adjusted earnings per share diluted of $0.78 an increase of 2.6% versus last year.
Excluding the negative impact from foreign currency exchange rate of 1.3 points net sales increased 1.3% versus the year-ago period.
Pricing and net acquisitions and divestitures were a 5.8 percentage point and a 1.4 percentage point benefit partially offset by 3.6 points of volume elasticity related to the previously-mentioned price increase and lower sales in China.
Promotional spending driven by China direct trade and returns discounts and allowances was a 2.3 percentage point headwind.
As J.P.
stated North America continues to perform well.
As is typical the second quarter is our smallest quarter as it relates to overall net sales growth given the launch and timing of new products and seasonal growth associated with Halloween and holiday.
North American net sales increased by 1.8% versus last year.
Excluding the 60 basis point impact of unfavorable foreign-exchange rates in Canada net sales increased 2.4%.
North America net sales were slightly better than expectations primarily due to solid U.S.
CMG performance that was partially offset by snacks and grocery softness primarily due to increased spreads and baking chips competitive activity.
Net price realization was 5.5 point benefit and was offset by volume of 3.6 percentage points due to snacks and grocery sales that were less than anticipated and elasticity related to the pricing actions that was in line with estimates.
On a net basis The Allan Candy Company and Krave acquisitions as well as the Mauna Loa divestiture was a 50 basis point benefit.
Turning now to margins adjusted gross margins increased 130 basis points in the second quarter driven by net price realization and supply chain productivity and cost savings initiatives.
Partially offset by obsolescence unfavorable sales mix and lower volumes.
For the full year we continue to expect that gross margin will increase 135 basis points to 145 basis points driven by price realization.
Operating profit in the second quarter increased 3.3% versus last year resulting in operating profit margins of 18.3%.
The increase was driven by gross margin gains and a decrease in advertising and related consumer marketing expense of about 3% primarily in China.
As expected North America operating profit increased double digits on a percentage basis versus last year and was ahead of plan.
This was partially offset by international performance again primarily China.
Excluding the acquisitions and divestitures SM&amp;A expenses excluding advertising and related consumer marketing was about the same as the year-ago period.
Now let me provide a brief update on our international business.
Total international and other segment net sales for the second quarter declined 12.1% versus last year.
Unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates were a six-point headwind and the Shanghai Golden Monkey acquisition was an eight point benefit.
The international and other segment core business was off about 14 points due primarily to China chocolate business performance where sales declined $35 million.
We believe China chocolate category performance was impacted by macroeconomic challenges and trends that are affecting consumer behavior lower trips in Tier 1 hypermarkets increased competitive activity and accelerated momentum of e-Commerce and online purchases.
As JP stated over the remainder of the year we're focused on the broader rollout of Brookside chocolates distribution into smaller format stores and continued focus and acceleration of our e-Commerce business.
None of us are happy with the developments around the Golden Monkey acquisition and integration.
Our latest outlook for the business is obviously different than the acquisition model.
Our initial estimated non-cash impairment charge of about $250 million reflects the write down of the goodwill.
There is a lot of in-country analysis and fieldwork going on to assess the potential of the business and the value of the sales and distributor network.
Once this work is complete we'll have a final amount related to the impairment charge.
We estimate full year Golden Monkey net sales of about $90 million but this is subject to change based on the ongoing work mentioned previously.
On a constant-currency basis net sales in Mexico Brazil and India were relatively in line with our expectations.
Given the macroeconomic and competitive environment in Mexico and Brazil we're pleased with our performance.
Looking at year-to-date because of Easter timing local currency sales in Mexico and Brazil are up about 10% and 7% respectively.
Plans are in place that should result in similar net sales increases over the remainder of the year.
In India Q2 local currency sales were off about 2%.
The brands that we are investing in JOLLY RANCHER Sofit and Jumpin are up double digits.
This was offset by the legacy low margin hard candy business which we previously indicated we would rationalize.
Therefore we expect total international and other segment net sales including foreign currency headwinds and net contribution from M&amp;A to decline mid-single digits for the full year.
Moving down the P&amp;L second quarter interest expense of $18.9 million declined $2.4 million versus last year.
For the full year we continue to expect interest expense to be in the $75 million to $80 million range.
The adjusted tax rate for the second quarter was 35.3% relatively in line with our estimates.
Last quarter we stated that the full year adjusted net tax rate would be slightly lower than a year ago.
Driven by U.S.
government investment tax credits we expect the tax rate to be about 30% in the second half of the year and around 32.5% for the full year.
However there will be a corresponding offset or expense related to the write-down of the investment tax credit within the other income and expense line item.
Hence the net effect of the full year net income of the tax credits is only about $5 million.
For the second quarter of 2015 weighted average shares outstanding on a diluted basis were approximately 221 million shares leading to an adjusted earnings per share diluted of $0.78 or an increase of 2.6% versus a year ago.
Let me now provide a quick recap of year-to-date adjusted results.
Net sales increased 1.9% in the first half.
Excluding the negative impact from foreign currency exchange rates net sales increased 3.1% versus the year ago period.
Operating profit decreased 2% resulting in an operating profit margin of 19.4%.
Year-to-date adjusted gross margin was 46.6% versus 46% last year or 60 basis points higher as a result of net price realization gains and supply chain productivity and cost savings initiatives partially offset by higher input costs and obsolescence.
Adjusted earnings per share diluted in the first half decreased about 1.6% to $1.87 per share.
Turning now to the balance sheet and cash flow at the end of the second quarter net trading capital increased versus last year's second quarter by $80 million.
Accounts receivable were higher by $20 million and remain extremely current.
Inventory was higher by $19 million and accounts payable declined by $41 million.
Total capital additions including software were $90 million in the second quarter.
For the year we continue to expect total capital expenditures to be about $375 million to $400 million including the capital related to the Johor Malaysia project of about $110 million.
During the second quarter depreciation and amortization was $60 million in line with our estimates.
Dividends paid were $115 million.
Earlier today we announced a dividend increase of 9%.
We have strong North American marketplace position and remain confident about the long term growth potential of our business.
In the second quarter no shares have been purchased against the $250 million authorization approved in February 2015.
In the second quarter the company repurchased $9 million of common shares or $143 million year-to-date to replace shares issued in connection with the exercise of stock options.
Cash and short term investments at the end of the second quarter were $402 million.
This is lower than a year ago primarily due to the Krave and Golden Monkey acquisitions.
The company continues to generate substantial free cash flow and has a strong balance sheet.
It is well positioned to fund our working capital needs capital expenditure requirements and acquisitions.
As J.
P.
summarized over the remainder of the year net sales will be driven by strong Halloween and holiday seasonal programming and the continued rollout of new products in North America.
In addition we have made adjustments to the China business strategy to address the changing environment.
In North America advertising and related consumer marketing is expected to increase about two times the organic net sales growth rate.
These investments will enable us to build on our North America momentum positioning us to deliver on our objectives.
As a result the company estimates full year net sales will increase about 1.5% to 2.5% including a net contribution from acquisition and divestitures of about one point and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates of about 1.5 points.
Excluding unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates full year net sales are expected to increase about 3% to 4%.
We continue to have a significant focus on gross margin and expect solid North America price realization and productivity and cost savings to result in 2015 gross margin expansion of 135 basis points to 145 basis points.
Combined with the $10 million to $15 million in savings from the productivity initiatives announced in June we expect adjusted earnings per share diluted to be in the $4.10 to $4.18 range an increase of 3% to 5% versus last year.
This includes dilution from acquisitions and divestitures of about $0.20 per share.
Thank you for your time this morning.
J.P.
Mark and I will now take any questions you may have.
Our first question is from Matthew Grainger from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Good morning Matthew.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Matthew.
Good morning.
Thanks.
J.P.
I just wanted to ask two questions which I guess point a little bit toward setting our expectations for the next 12 to 18 months.
Just firstly on the international and other business you've faced some structural issues in the category but obviously a fair number of temporary headwinds as well.
And just as we're thinking about your expectations for the margin profile of that segment is there any guidance you can give us just to help set our bearings for where things could correct to in 2016 once promotion subsides once all the inventory absorption is behind you? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Specifically on that I think I would make two comments.
The first comment is we're always gross margin focused and we're always very aware of how can we ensure that the activities that we have outside the U.S.
are directionally constructive for us from a gross margin standpoint as we continue to build our manufacturing footprint around the world.
We continue I think to head in a positive direction there.
In terms of investment and structure we want to make sure that we continue to pace ourselves to right-size for what we see as the opportunity.
So as you know we currently have this project in place where we're looking at the structure of the organization so we'll be very mindful of that.
And then as we specifically look at a market like China and we think about investments in the second half we want to make sure that the profile that we have in terms of DMEs et cetera is appropriate to what we see as the opportunities and where we continue to expand our brand.
So we're going to be working on building our core distribution.
We want to continue to deepen our distribution coverage.
But at the same time based on that pace we'll also dictate how we activate our brands from a DME standpoint et cetera.
So I think those are some things that you'll continue to see.
Okay.
Thanks J.P.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
And then just with respect to share repurchases Patricia you talked about the fact that you've done relatively little this year other than offsetting the options dilution.
But as a result of working through some of the issues that you've been facing and the impact on the stock is your thinking regarding the opportunity to utilize the share repurchase authorization shifting at all? What's the argument against increasing leverage a bit and becoming a bit more active on the buybacks? I would point out that long term we really haven't shifted our point of view.
Our first goal is to invest in the business both organically and through M&amp;A.
Then we're going to look to the dividend and then to share repurchase.
But I take your point.
I think it's a good one and it's one of the things that we're looking hard at in this space.
So basically in the second quarter we're very focused on China making sure that we had good line of sight on that and that we really could see our way forward on that.
But it's certainly something that's on my radar screen and I'd say watch this space.
Okay thank you both.
Our next question is from Bryan Spillane from Bank of America.
Good morning Bryan.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Bryan.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
J.P.
my question is about your long-term growth objectives.
And I guess when you set them originally there was better growth especially in the international markets you were targeting so the macro was better.
And since then the growth has slowed.
And also frankly you've made an acquisition which isn't going to turn out to grow as fast as you thought.
And you made that acquisition with the assumption of it helping you achieve your growth objectives.
So I guess my question is A) why not or are you considering and why shouldn't the long-term growth objectives come down? And second if they're not what's going to be better to help you get there? Because the goodwill write-down in and of itself suggests that Golden Monkey won't deliver as much growth as you thought and also it seems like the macro is slower.
So if you could just square those for us that would be helpful.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's probably a bit too early to talk about some of the long-term guidance as we continue to look at a number of the forces and factors that we're dealing with.
At the same time we continue to be very positive on a number of pieces of our business.
Certainly we feel like North America is firming and heading in the right direction.
We want to continue to invest there.
And our other international markets ex-China things are about where we thought they would be.
Obviously FX is a headwind and is beyond our ability to predict perfectly.
And so before we add specificity I would say to how we want to think about the long term we really need to get our hands around some of these shorter-term issues.
But in terms of our business model strategies that we have we're still very committed to that.
And I guess one of the things I would say is when you look at a focused strategy like we have in our international businesses around some very attractive core markets we don't have a legacy of businesses in every corner of the earth.
We get the significant advantage of those markets when they're doing really well and we feel that when there could be some bumps along the way but we still think it's the right approach.
We're still very early in building our brands.
And so I continue to be really optimistic about the long-term forecast.
And usually we talk about that in the fall and we'll add specificity at that time.
But fair to say that's part of the process that you're going through your planning process for next year and your evaluation phase it's something you are evaluating? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Absolutely.
And I think it's important to remember that North America is probably growing at a 3% to 4% range.
That's really healthy.
We feel good about our innovation pipeline.
So as we talk about our growth algorithm that is still in place.
We continue to grow market share.
So let us get back to you with the specificity in the fall and just assume that we want to have the best sense of how we see the business coming out of this year.
Okay thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay thank you.
Our next question is from Ken Goldman.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Operator do we have another question? Yes.
Our next question is from Ken Goldman.
Can you hear me? Our next question is from Ken Goldman.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Ken.
Good morning everyone so two questions.
This was the second biggest 2Q gross margin in company history just by higher inputs.
Your gross margins are going up at a time when many food companies are heading the other way.
You have cocoa and milk dropping next year which is possible and you keep getting productivity you're going to see another gross margin jump again.
So I just wanted to pick your brain a little bit not to criticize actually it's obviously a great trend but how sustainable is that? Because I know the chocolate category has very little private label but the history of food right is when gross margins get too high eventually value-oriented competitors are going to sniff out an opportunity here.
So I'm just curious how do you balance that between the goal of taking margin and growing it and making sure you're not creating a price umbrella to create or attract competition? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think a couple of things that I would just point to is we always talk being gross margin focused but we also at the same time don't really set for ourselves a specific level of gross margin that we have to be at.
And if you look at the scale that we have in North America and the value of high quality chocolate that's available in North America.
It's the best cost per pound of chocolate really anywhere in the world across the major manufacturers.
And I think that's one of the things that the value that the category offers has really been one of the things that's insulated it from significant owned label or private-label entry points.
So that's really the biggest thing that's probably kept it there.
I think another thing that we're thinking a little bit differently about Ken that may be from some of the things we've said in the past while we still have the majority of our portfolio which is both a good value and really mass-position we also are really spending a lot of time thinking about the premium segment as well and so we're really thinking about it a little bit more broadly in terms of total available share across the categories.
So I think that's another way that we look at within our core business expanding our footprint.
That's helpful.
Shifting quickly one of the reasons Golden Monkey was bought was for the distribution right and the ability of Hersey to flow its legacy product into some new regions or channels.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
I realize Golden Monkey itself has been disappointing but has that other element of its appeal right that opening of new paths for Kisses et cetera been I guess impaired in any meaningful way? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think the strategy and intent we have with Golden Monkey is still intact.
I think what we're really looking at is understanding the rightsizing and some of the business model practices that we have on a global basis and how do we integrate the broadest spectrum of distributors into that.
So I think in terms of if you look at that business on a weighted basis and do we still have value within some of those distributors the fact of the matter is yes and the strategy is right.
At the same time as you can imagine as you take a significant number of distributors and you try to align them into a new business model there's things that you've got to make changes and we're addressing that quite transparently upfront.
We want to get moving ahead with building the business so all the reasons that drew us to that business and being able to expand our footprint in China still are there.
We just have to get all the business practices aligned with what we believe is appropriate and what's required of us as a U.S.
corporation.
Thanks and congrats on the new headquarters too.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question is from Robert Moskow from Credit Suisse.
Your line's open.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Hi.
I was just looking at the forecast for what the implication is for what North America has to do in the back half.
And so if you have  I think you said international sales would probably come in around $1 billion for the year and so it's pretty easy to paint that out for international.
I'm getting something along the lines of like 3.5% top line growth for North America then.
And that would be an acceleration from the first half and I just want to understand if I'm getting the numbers right and whether you're expecting the business to be better in the second half? Hey Rob it's Mark.
I know going back to even the January and the April calls we've been saying we would expect North America organic sales to be up 3% to 3.5% and we're certainly tracking towards that today and the retail takeaway is in line with that.
I think through the first half of the year we're pretty close to actually 3% and you're right it is greater than that in the second half and I know there are a number of new products and fees in that J.P.
or Michele can address.
But I think you're thinking about it the right way.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Let me  Michele Buck as you know is the President of our North American business he's here with us this morning why don't I ask her to give us a little bit of perspective on the business in North America.
Okay.
Hey hello.
Good morning guys.
Let me talk a little bit about North America overall and then I'll hit some of the highlights of some of the great programming that we have coming in the back half so that you can get a little bit more color underneath what's going on there.
As we look at the year certainly our core brands are doing really well and a healthy core is a key foundation to our business.
We believe our advertising is working we're investing as you know this year incrementally behind that to really support the pricing conversion.
Our advertising appears to be working.
We have shifted some of our spend to digital.
We think that's a really smart move and while we don't have all of the robust analytics we have on base advertising it appears to be working quite well.
We have a new campaign on Hersey that appears to be resonating really well with millennials and driving some nice growth there.
As we came into the year we said a lot of the year would be dependent on us having successful execution of the pricing and the price conversion is on track so we feel great about that.
As I look at innovation and I'll speak a little bit to the back half of the year there's a couple of factors that give us confidence in the back half and I'd say that's innovation continued momentum on the core and strong visibility to our seasonal sell-ins.
Both Halloween and holiday we have very strong sell-ins.
We have the visibility to what the customers are going to buy so we know what those numbers look like so feel great about that.
And as we look at our innovation as you recall we launched in Q2 Hershey's Caramels Ice Breakers Cool Blasts so they're really just hitting the marketplace and the results to date have been very positive.
Cool Blasts our trial and velocities are exceeding expectations and the distribution was a bit slower than we anticipated so we have more to come in the back half so that should accelerate.
Brookside Snack Bars is just launching now and again the velocities in market look quite strong but all the benefit of that volume will come in the back half.
We've Kisses Deluxe that hits in Q4 Snack Bites and Snack Mix launching now and then the acquisitions especially Krave will really accelerate towards the back half of the year as Hershey gets more involved with the integration and execution.
Okay thanks for all the detail.
One quick question also on tax rate.
If I run through the numbers on the tax rate guidance for 30% for the next two quarters but then it's offset by other expense the other expense is really high.
I'm getting something along the lines of $40 million of other expense.
Yeah in fact a little bit higher than that so we would expect that other expense to be $55 million to $60 million.
It's the structure of these investment tax credits where you write them off in the top part of your P&amp;L and the credit part comes in the tax rates.
So it's a write-off? Yes.
In the other income and expense will be the write-off piece and the full benefit of the credit will be in the tax rate.
Okay thank you.
Our next question is from Eric Katzman from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Eric.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning everybody.
I guess let me ask a bigger picture question J.
P.
In terms of the company's let's say M&amp;A capabilities because I know and this goes back a ways but I know that at one point in time years ago when you tried to establish a business in China it disappeared overnight and there was a small write-off.
The company's history in Europe was one of failure and now we have this SGM mess.
So is there say like is there  given the M&amp;A it seems like it's still going to be part of your future as you move globally like is there something like culturally missing or on the due diligence process that you've done in the past that's just for whatever reason seemingly made the company deal with M&amp;A problems kind of after the deal is signed? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think Eric certainly some of the comments you've made about whether it was Europe or some of these other things those are certainly pieces of the history.
I think also inside there you look at Brookside obviously we're on the early side of Krave Pelon has been a good one.
We've had some joint ventures some have gone quite well and others we've chosen at particular times to exit from.
The thing that I would tell you and I think what's important is we look at this we've  if you were to put it within the context of our due diligence process I don't think we've gone about it in any errant way.
We use the best advisors the best names and family names that you can think of in terms of who you would partner with on looking at these things.
I think the landscape in China is certainly a challenging one and we're certainly finding that out.
At the same time we're being I think appropriate in terms of recognizing things when we understand them and I don't think it's as if there's no value to the strategies we have in Canada.
I think the other thing Eric that you don't see is that there's a lot of things that we do work on that we pass on and we pass on it for exactly the kinds of things that you would expect that either once we get under the hood they don't yield what we anticipated or there's things that we're concerned about.
So in terms of rigor and so forth I don't think there's any lack of that.
Our goal is to get as many of these things right as we possibly can.
You're correct M&amp;A is going to be important to our overall growth and you can rest assured that we're reviewing every aspect of everything along the way with regard to this particular acquisition to make sure we learn as much as we can going forward.
I'd like to think that we don't have some dark cloud that follows us and somehow we are jinxed but at any rate that's really kind of how I think about it.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thanks for that.
And then as a follow up it just seems like in the second half I guess were there some I guess maybe one time issues and I'm just kind of wondering initially how we should think about that to next year.
Are these tax structures that you're I guess benefiting from or unwinding or however you want to describe it do those go away next year? And is your comp expense being lowered in the second half and therefore is likely a headwind to next year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So let me deal with part of it and probably it's more appropriate if Patricia deal with part of it.
As we look at our performance this year certainly as we accrue for comp we take into consideration what we believe our performance might be and how that works with our comp plans.
But we accrue comp at a rate that assumes what our plan rates are so we typically don't find big swings there although if you have a year where adding comp is lower and your performance is higher in the subsequent year that's a cost but usually the momentum of the business really takes that into consideration.
And so usually those are things that aren't that challenging to overcome.
And then on the tax bit I'll let Patricia speak to that.
So you're right the tax credits that we're doing this year are a period.
We can do them again next year so we'll have that opportunity.
And frankly I'm just getting into our tax attributes and looking forward to finding places to improve upon them.
I'll just add one point to the comments J.P.
made about some of the other things going on in our expense lines and that is we're really pleased with the execution on our restructuring that we're in the middle of right now.
We're very much on plan on track to get the expected benefit from that next year so that will be positive momentum for us next year compared to this year.
We'll get a piece of it this year but the bulk of it will come next year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thank you.
I'll pass it on.
Our next question is from David Driscoll from Citigroup.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning David.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you and good morning.
So I wanted to go back to China here and just ask a couple of questions.
The first one J.P.
is just and this has nothing to do with Shanghai Golden Monkey.
I want to focus on the chocolate operations.
The chocolate category in that market is still a very small category relative to the size of the country $2.7 billion.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Correct.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Your operation is even smaller there.
I think last year it was $185 million or something like that.
So I suppose what's so hard to understand from the outside is why aren't ongoing distribution gains the dominant factor in driving the business? Why is it that we're looking at  I think in your script you gave like a 4% number for Hershey and a 6% number for the category.
I feel like Hershey's story in China is you're in 14 cities where you advertise or something like that and you should be in 100 cities.
So what am I getting wrong here and why is this growth not being dominated by distribution expansion across this incredibly large and hopefully hungry for chocolate country? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So David I think your comments are certainly appropriate and interesting and I think we think about it the same way.
I guess the execution of accomplishing it is a bit of the pace and challenge.
So let me just reset a little bit.
If you think about our business in China and distribution build as you rightly say we continue to build out our distribution.
It's largely  if you look at our business about 60% to 65% of our business is done in three channels.
It's done in Tier 1 hypermarkets.
It's done in supermarkets and about 15% of the business in both B2C and B2B is done in e-commerce.
So our Tier 1 development is pretty significant and specific and so we've been building  if you go back over the last five years you've heard us talk about 10 cities and 35 cities and 110 cities.
But a lot of that is really focused in very narrow channels versus maybe what we ultimately want to have happen.
And those channels also happen to be ones that were most impacted by some of the macroeconomic influences.
And then our portfolio in China tends to lend itself a bit more towards gifting than it does the everyday business.
So when you put all of those things together and our portfolio there is still relatively narrow it has made us a bit more volatile to some of these forces and factors than I would like to see going forward.
So your hypothesis of the importance of growing distribution is absolutely right and that's what we're focused on and that's what we want to ultimately be able to do with Shanghai Golden Monkey and HISL is to be able to get into the best distributors with the best footprint and push a broader portfolio of our brands into distribution.
So that's really where we're headed.
That hasn't changed.
While we're all frustrated sometimes by the bumps in the road along the way certainly we're experiencing some of that.
But I think as we look over the long term I continue to have the same commitment and confidence of how we're going to grow our business there.
And your first comment is the one that I'd like to end on.
This is about category building.
It's not about fighting for market share.
It's about participating in the growth of this category for the future in a very large and attractive market.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> I appreciate the comments.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question is from Chris Growe from Stifel.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Chris.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Can you hear me okay? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet thank you.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
I just had a quick question like a follow up on China and then one question on the U.S.
I just wanted to be clear on the inventory situation in China what's out there if you know where a lot of the goods may be and just what effect it may have on revenue in the second half of the year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think that what you're seeing in the second quarter is that we are recognizing where we've identified inventory and where we want to have in food in every category.
You want to have the freshest best stuff out there.
So wherever we believe we've had inventory issues we're trying to remove that product from the marketplace make sure that we've got the freshest possible product in place and so hopefully we've addressed most of that.
There could still be some cats and dogs here and there I suppose.
But we think we've done a pretty good job of confronting those types of issues and that's why you're seeing some of the things you're seeing in our second quarter results.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And just a question for you then as well or separately on the U.S.
just to understand in the second half of the year as you transition to the seasonal merchandise and some pricing coming through there do you expect elasticity to increase in the second half around the pricing that's coming through now on the seasonal merchandise just to get a better sense of how the revenue growth will play out in the U.S.
in the second half? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I think that if you look at the way we modeled pricing elasticity and some of the things that were in my comments we feel really good about how it's progressing.
We should get the benefit of pricing in Halloween because that would be with all of the pricing in versus last year where it was.
And so again as we move through the year we've always said that as we get to the beginning of 2016 we felt as though we would get back to pre-price increase levels and that appears to be accurate.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thank you for the color.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay thank you.
Our next question is from Alexia Howard from Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning Alexia.
Good morning Alexia.
Hi there.
I just had a couple of questions.
First of all on China are you able to quantify for us how much of a headwind to company-wide organic sales growth the Shanghai Golden Monkey deal is going to be in the second half? Once we lap the anniversary of the acquisition in September it's going to become part of the organic sales growth base so is that already built into expectations? And how much of a headwind is that likely to be? And then I have a follow up.
Yes Alexia it's Mark.
And we can run through some the math after but I know in J.P.'s remarks he talked about excluding China chocolate and all the acquisition and FX.
But North America and Rest of World on an organic basis we will be up 3.5% to 4%.
So outside of China I mean I would qualify it as everything else is going pretty well.
The 0.5 point reduction in net sales contribution from M&amp;A was obviously all Monkey related.
So I can help you back into some of those numbers after the fact.
Great thank you.
And then just a quick follow up.
At the beginning of the year you were a little uncertain about the outlook for the U.S.
chocolate category I think some concerns about premiumization and just different trends.
Have you become more confident in the outlook as the year has progressed? And are you still planning further diversification moves a similar to Krave? Thank you.
And I'll pass it on.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah so I think we do feel good about category and we certainly feel good about our performance within the category as we continue to grow share.
As you think about the overall snacking continuum we continue to be enthusiastic both with some of our R&amp;D pipeline which we reviewed with our board in fact this past week and I think it was enthusiastically received and we'll be introducing some of those to the market later in the fall and certainly into 2016.
And we continue to see that as an important opportunity.
So I'll just end with this.
We love the business we're in.
Confectionary is at the heart of everything that we do and it's on one end of the snacking continuum and we think is one of the greatest categories there is.
At the same time we also see that consumers have a changing relationship with food.
We see snacking as an important occasion and we think we have a go to market capability and an RD capability to meet those needs.
So if on one hand you look at indulgent and you were to imagine on the far end functional we see that we have a broadening role to play across that entire continuum and I'm enthusiastic to share with you as we go forward what some of those things are.
Great thank you.
I'll pass it on.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Operator we have time for one more question.
Okay.
We'll take our final question is a follow up from Robert Moskow from Credit Suisse.
Your line's open.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Rob.
Hi.
Sorry.
Can you clarify is your tax rate going to stay at 32.5% next year because of the tax credit or is this just this year? That particular impact is a single-year impact.
But again it's another tool in our tool chest that we can certainly reuse next year as well.
You can do it again next year? Yes we could.
That's a discrete event  a decision that we'll make for next year.
So the write-off it's positive from the cash flow perspective.
Yes.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Absolutely.
All right thank you.
Thank you for joining us today.
We'll be available for any follow-up calls you may have later on.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's program.
You may now disconnect at any time.
Good morning everyone and welcome to The Hershey Company's third quarter 2015 results conference call.
My name is Lindy and I will be your conference operator today.
All participants have been placed in a listen-only mode.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Please note this call may be recorded.
Thank you.
Mr.
Mark Pogharian you may begin your conference.
Thank you Lindy.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to The Hershey Company's third quarter 2015 conference call.
J.P.
Bilbrey Chairman President and CEO; and Patricia Little Senior Vice President and CFO will provide you with an overview of our results which will then be followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Let me remind everyone listening that today's conference call may contain statements which are forward-looking.
These statements are based on current expectations which are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements because of factors such as those listed in this morning's press release and in our 10-K for 2014 filed with the SEC.
If you have not seen the press release a copy is posted on our corporate website in the Investor Relations section.
Included in the press release is a consolidated balance sheet and a summary of consolidated statements of income prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Within the Note section of the press release we have provided adjusted pro forma reconciliations of select income statement line items quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.
The company uses these non-GAAP measures as key metrics for evaluating performance internally.
These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP.
Rather the company believes the presentation of earnings excluding certain items provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations.
As a result we will discuss third quarter results excluding net pre-tax charges of $140 million or $0.47 per share-diluted primarily related to the productivity initiative announced in June a non-cash impairment charge in China and costs associated with the early extinguishment of debt.
Our discussion of any future projections will also exclude the impact of these net charges.
With that out of the way let me turn the call over to J.P.
Bilbrey.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Mark.
In the third quarter our efforts were focused on ensuring successful execution of our seasonal plans which are on track and should result in good Halloween and holiday seasons.
We were pleased with North America gross margin expansion that resulted in solid operating profit growth; however organic net sales growth was less than expected.
North America organic net sales increased 3.2% ahead of CMG marketplace performance primarily due to the timing of seasonal shipments and snack sales that don't get captured in the Nielsen CMG database.
Hershey U.S.
candy mint and gum or CMG retail takeaway in the third quarter was about plus 0.3% less than category growth resulting in market share loss of 0.4 points.
Lower than expected levels of merchandising and programming in select retailers led to consumption trends that were below our estimates.
Mainstream snacking categories like salty snack cakes and meat snacks also saw consumption slow in the third quarter versus the June year-to-date trends.
Additionally consumer retail trips in the third quarter were lower down almost 4%.
By channel trips performance was mixed.
On a percentage basis versus last year trips they declined high single digits in drug and convenience stores low single digits in grocery and were up mid-single digits in club.
Trends appear to have improved as we exited September.
And in October CMG in-store merchandising and programming has been executed and should result in Hershey share gains in the important Halloween season.
Third quarter CMG category performance by segment was mixed.
ICE BREAKERS COOL BLASTS is doing very well.
The ICE BREAKER brand continues to drive both gum and mint category growth and this period was no exception.
Specifically our third quarter gum and mint retail takeaway was about 9% and plus 16% leading to solid market share gains in these segments.
Chocolate category performance was soft in the third quarter up 0.4%.
Hershey chocolate retail takeaway was off minus 0.5% resulting in a market share decline of 0.4 points.
We believe our performance was impacted by a later than normal Labor Day the aforementioned lower levels of trips and in-store merchandising and programming.
We also had lower year-over-year advertising GRPs.
In the fourth quarter U.S.
advertising GRPs will reach the highest level of the year and seasonal merchandising and programming is in place.
Combined with the Reese's NCAA College Game Day promotion and the launch of Hershey's Kisses Deluxe we expect improvement in chocolate marketplace trends in the fourth quarter.
Non-chocolate candy or NCC category growth in the third quarter was plus 3.3%.
In-store activity and merchandising within this segment of the category was greater than what we've seen in many years.
Given the 2014 activity that we're lapping the prior-year launch of Lancaster Caramels and JOLLY RANCHER line extensions Hershey's NCC third quarter market share was off one point.
We expect our NCC performance to improve in 2016 as we leverage The Allan Candy capabilities and the brands.
We're also making progress within snacks and grocery.
Brookside bars are now available with initial demand and velocity on par with the category leaders.
And we'll continue to build on Brookside's equity in 2016 with the launch of three flavors of Brookside yogurt fruit and nut bars.
We also had a limited introduction launch of Hershey's Reese's and PAYDAY Snack Bites and snack mix products.
These sweet and salty offerings are off to a strong start and in some cases we've extended the brand and secured space in addition to the confectionery aisle.
The early read is positive in the C-stores where we have distribution at front-end checkouts.
Switching to meat snacks as I stated earlier category growth here also slowed a bit in the third quarter although it was primarily due to under-performance of the mainstream portion of the category.
Looking at premium or artisan meat snacks where KRAVE plays this sub-segment of the category increased about 40% in the third quarter and was relatively in line with the growth rates of the four 12 and 52-week periods.
The KRAVE business and integration is progressing well and retail takeaway is significantly outpacing the category driven by velocity and distribution gains.
Items per store and merchandising is growing and net sales should nearly double this year.
We feel good about our snacking and adjacency initiatives and believe meat snacks snack bars as well as snack bites and snack mix products give us an opportunity to source volume and sales across the broader snacking category.
Now for an update on our International business given the macroeconomic environment in our focused markets broad category and Hershey growth was challenging.
Combined third quarter constant currency net sales in Mexico and Brazil increased mid-single digits on a percentage basis versus last year in a very tough environment.
Constant currency net sales in India declined in line with estimates.
And recall this was expected as we phased out our sales of edible oil products.
Importantly India core brand sales increased high single digits on a percentage basis versus last year.
The Shanghai Golden Monkey integration is progressing.
And we've increase our resources on the ground as we move forward.
We're very focused on integrating the business and executing against our selling plan.
It's a bit too early to discuss our 2016 initiatives but we're cautiously optimistic that we'll be able to leverage the core Golden Monkey products in the Chinese New Year period given that 2016 is the Zodiac Year of the Monkey.
In the third quarter China chocolate net sales were relatively in line with our expectations; however Q3 chocolate category growth of 4% was less than June year-to-date growth of 6%.
It appears that the category continues to be impacted by macroeconomic challenges and trends that are affecting consumer shopping behavior and the acceleration of e-commerce and on-line purchases of broader consumer staples.
These factors are leading to lower sales velocities in tier one hypermarkets where the majority of our chocolate sales are derived and impacting the impulse-oriented chocolate category.
We expect marketplace trends to slightly improve in Q4 but no longer expect the category to increase high single digits for the full year.
We're making progress against the initiatives we discussed earlier in the year.
Distribution and velocity in the smaller format super and mini channels is on track and Brookside ACV is increasing.
As we entered the fourth quarter Brookside advertising is on-air displays are being activated at retail and a digital campaign on WeChat has been established.
And we continue to build on our e-commerce momentum.
We're particularly pleased with our online business which in August was up 112% and was focused on Chinese Valentine's Day.
For the year-to-date period our China chocolate e-commerce retail takeaway is up about 55%.
We have specific activity for the upcoming Singles' Day and holiday season and believe we're doing some of the right things here as evidenced by our market share gains in this evolving and important channel.
So while challenging China is a priority market for us and I believe we're executing against the right fundamentals and are focused on building our business for the long-term.
In Mexico net sales in local currency for the quarter and year-to-date periods are up high single digits on a percentage basis versus last year driven by our chocolate and Pelon Pelo Rico business.
Within the chocolate category we're seeing good investments by all major manufacturers in the form of new products and core brand investments.
As a result our chocolate marketplace performance has lagged the category.
Chocolate market share in the modern trade in Mexico for the year-to-date period is off as our retail takeaway of about 6% has lagged category growth of about 13%.
In Brazil local currency net sales have sequentially improved versus last quarter and are up low single digits although retail takeaway slowed in the third quarter given the challenged macroeconomic environment and increased competitive activity.
Brazil chocolate market share for the year-to-date period is up 0.4 points; however given my aforementioned comments we would expect the macroeconomic environment in Brazil to pressure Q4 performance.
Now to wrap up our number one goal is to regain momentum in terms of Hershey's marketplace performance as it relates to retail takeaway and market share.
Our fourth quarter and 2016 plans are focused and the investment profile is concentrated in the areas where Hershey is advantaged.
Specifically you'll see core brand investments in the form of innovation and marketing especially a greater focus on digital and a focus on in-store execution as it relates to merchandising and programming.
Without getting into specific details related to 2016 our initial plans are balanced from a top and bottom line perspective.
Next year we lap charges in China related to trade promotion that have pressured results this year.
We'll also benefit from the productivity initiatives related to the organization simplification program announced in June and have good visibility into our cost structure as it relates to raw materials.
We believe this setup gives us the flexibility to invest in core initiatives that drives growth while also building on our equities within the snack mix snack bar and meat snack categories.
At the same time we're also doing strategic planning work and assessing our long-term targets.
Acquiring the remaining 20% of Shanghai Golden Monkey impacts this.
So when this occurs we'll be able to share our integration plans and potential cost savings as it relates to our combined businesses in China.
In the fourth quarter our seasonal business plans are strong and complement the activity related to core brand merchandising programming and innovation.
Per my earlier comments North America advertising and related consumer marketing expense accelerates and we expect CMG retail takeaway trends to improve.
Patricia will provide you with all of the details related to the full-year outlook but excluding unfavorable FX 2015 total company net sales are expected to increase 1.5% to 2.5%.
Solid gross margin expansion driven by the very profitable U.S.
business and other productivity and cost savings more than offsets greater than expected dilution from acquisition and divestitures and should result in 2015 full year adjusted earnings per share-diluted growth towards the low end of the 3% to 5% range.
2015 hasn't unfolded the way that we had planned but we remain focused on strong execution of our plans.
Candy mint and gum has been one of the better performing categories in the store for many years.
It's a destination category impulsive and very profitable for retailers.
As a result it typically garners key floor space within the store as it relates to merchandising and programming; however over the last two years it appears that income bifurcation and expanded choice among snacking is having an impact on generating consistent CMG category growth.
While overall consumer confidence is trending up lower income consumers continue to be fragile as income and wage growth has been minimal.
Higher income and more confident consumers are driving premium growth while cost-conscious consumers are driving the value segment.
As indicated last quarter and in my remarks today in 2016 we'll introduce candy products and programs that will leverage our ubiquitous distribution specifically targeting our core everyday candy business as well as the mass premium and value segments where we're currently under-represented.
I look forward to sharing these plans with you in January.
We have strong financial resources and technical capabilities and I have a passionate team of leaders and coworkers who are committed to winning in the marketplace.
I'll now turn it over to Patricia who will provide some additional detail on our financial results.
Thank you J.P.
Good morning to everyone on the phone and on the webcast.
Third quarter net sales of $1.96 billion were in line with prior year and generated adjusted earnings per share diluted of $1.17 an increase of $0.12 or 11.4% versus last year.
Excluding the negative impact from foreign currency exchange rates of two points about half a point greater than our estimates net sales increased 2%.
Pricing in net acquisitions and divestitures were a 5.8 points a half a point benefit partially offset by 4.3 points of lower volume related to pricing elasticity in North America and lower sales in China.
As J.P.
stated North America gross margin and operating income growth was solid; however U.S.
marketplace consumption trends were less than our estimates and as a result sales shipments were softer than expected.
Excluding the 1.1 point impact of unfavorable foreign exchange rates in Canada North America net sales increased 3.5% versus the year-ago period.
Net price realization was a 6.9 point benefit and volume was off 3.7 points due to elasticity related to the pricing action.
The volume impact was in line with estimates when adjusted for the trip declines that J.P.
referenced.
On a net basis The Allan Candy and KRAVE acquisitions and the Mauna Loa divestiture were a 30 basis point benefit.
Total International and Other segment net sales for the third quarter declined 15% versus last year.
Unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates were a 7.9 point headwind and the Shanghai Golden Monkey acquisition a 2.3 point benefit.
The International and Other segment core business volume was off about 10 points due primarily to China chocolate business performance where sales declined $18 million.
Turning now to margins adjusted gross margin increased 220 basis points in the third quarter driven by net price realization and supply chain productivity and cost savings initiatives partially offset by international trade allowances primarily in China.
Operating profit in the third quarter increased by 9.1% versus last year resulting in operating profit margins of 21.2%.
The increase was driven by gross margin gains and lower SM&amp;A selling marketing and administrative expenses.
SM&amp;A excluding advertising and related consumer marketing increased about 2.8%.
Excluding acquisitions and divestitures SM&amp;A expenses excluding advertising and related consumer marketing declined 2.8% as we remain focused on nonessential spending and look to leverage existing resources.
By segment North America operating profit increased low double digits on a percentage basis versus last year and is on plan.
This was partially offset by International performance primarily China.
Now let me provide a brief update on our International business.
China chocolate category performance continues to be below the historical CAGR growth rate of 11% to 12%.
In Q3 chocolate category performance was sluggish in both hyper and small format stores and impacted all major manufacturers including those whose innovations been driving the market.
Over the remainder of the year we're focused on the broader rollout of Brookside chocolates distribution into smaller format stores and our e-commerce business.
We're making progress in areas that will benefit the business over the long-term.
However in the short-term chocolate results in China could remain pressured if lower hypermarket trips and category growth continues to track at these lower levels.
This scenario could have an impact on our Chinese New Year sell-in assumptions over the remainder of the year.
Shanghai Golden Monkey integration is slowly continuing and we're finishing work that will indicate which distributors we'll invest with going forward.
Golden Monkey gross sales for the full year are in line with previous estimates; however we had some true-ups on sales promotions and the current net sales estimate for Golden Monkey in 2015 is now around $80 million less than our prior expectations.
These true-ups plus an adjustment to the tax rate which I'll discuss in a few moments are the primary drivers of the increase in M&amp;A dilution from about $0.20 to $0.35 per share-diluted.
On a local currency basis combined net sales in Mexico and Brazil increased mid-single digits on a percentage basis versus last year.
Year-to-date local currency sales in Mexico and Brazil are up about 10% and 5% respectively.
The macroeconomic environment and competitive dynamics in Latin America continue to be a challenge and we would expect it to be a headwind as it relates to fourth quarter performance.
India third quarter local currency sales were off about 20% as we began the phase-out of edible oils which were discontinued at the end of the third quarter.
Excluding the edible oil business India core business sales increased 7%.
The brands that we're investing behind JOLLY RANCHER and SOFIT continue to do well in the marketplace.
Moving down the P&amp;L third quarter interest expense of $18.6 million declined $2.5 million versus last year or 11.9%.
For the full-year we expect interest expense to be at the low end of the $75 million to $80 million range.
The adjusted tax rate for the third quarter was 33.5%.
This is greater than our previous estimate of about 30% due to the timing of the U.S.
Government investment tax credits we discussed last quarter and an adjustment to the tax rate related to Golden Monkey net operating loss carry-forward.
As a result we expect the fourth quarter and full year tax rates to be about 31% and 33.5% respectively.
In the fourth quarter we expect to record $35 million within the other income and expense line related to the U.S.
Government investment tax credits.
Hence the net effect on full year net income of the tax credits is about $5 million.
For the third quarter of 2015 weighted average shares outstanding on a diluted basis were approximately 220 million shares down $3.8 million versus last year and a $0.02 benefit in the quarter resulting in adjusted earnings per share-diluted of $1.17 or an increase of 11.4% versus year ago.
Let me now provide a quick recap of year-to-date adjusted results.
Year-to-date net sales increased 1.2%.
Excluding the negative impact from foreign currency exchange rates net sales increased 2.7% versus the year-ago period.
Operating profit increased about 2% resulting in an operating profit margin of 20%.
Year-to-date adjusted gross margin was 46.4% versus 45.2% last year or 120 basis points higher as a result of net price realization and supply chain productivity and cost savings initiatives partially offset by higher input costs and obsolescence.
Year-to-date adjusted earnings per share-diluted increased about 3.1% to $3.04 per share.
Turning now to the balance sheet and cash flow at the end of the third quarter net trading capital decreased versus last year's third quarter by $39 million.
Accounts receivable was lower by $26 million and remains extremely current.
Inventory was lower by $87 million and accounts payable declined by $74 million.
Total capital additions including software were $86 million in the third quarter $238 million year-to-date.
For the year we expect total capital expenditures to be around $350 million.
This is less than our previous forecast of $375 million to $400 million due to lower capital requirements related to the Johor Malaysia project which is now estimated to be about $80 million in 2015.
During the third quarter depreciation and amortization was $64 million and dividends paid were $124 million.
In the third quarter the company repurchased $230 million of outstanding shares against the $250 million authorization approved in February 2015.
For the year-to-date period the company repurchased $403 million of outstanding shares.
In addition the company repurchased $22 million of common shares in the quarter and $165 million year-to-date to replace shares issued in connection with the exercise of stock options.
Cash and short-term investments at the end of the quarter were $344 million.
This is lower than year ago primarily due to acquisitions and the share buyback.
The company continues to generate substantial free cash flow and has a very strong balance sheet.
In the fourth quarter North America in-store seasonal merchandising and programming is secured.
And on-air advertising reaches its highest point of the year but as J.P.
mentioned lower consumer trips and the macroeconomic environment continue to be a challenge within the retail environment as we wind down the year and look to 2016.
We're confident in our ability to execute at the retail level and provide consumers with CMG and snack products that can drive growth.
As a result we do expect North America marketplace performance to improve over the remainder of the year.
Given year-to-date results the aforementioned challenges in international markets and slightly higher than expected FX headwinds we estimate that full year net sales will be about the same as to slightly up versus 2014.
Including a net contribution from acquisitions and divestitures of about a point and excluding an unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates of at least 1.5 points net sales are expected to increase 1.5% to 2%.
This is less than the low end of the previously-provided outlook of 3%.
We continue to expect solid gross margin growth in 2015 driven by North America price realization; however given year-to-date results and the impact of higher levels of international trade promotion the company expects margin expansion at the low end of the 135 to 145 basis point estimate.
We're also focused on nonessential SM&amp;A expenses and will leverage existing resources and given performance will also benefit from lower than estimated other employee-related costs.
In addition expected 2015 savings from the business productivity initiative announced in June is estimated to be around $25 million versus the previous estimate of $10 million to $15 million.
As a result we expect adjusted earnings per share-diluted to be at the low end of the 3% to 5% range or approximately $4.10 per share-diluted.
This includes dilution from acquisitions and divestitures of about $0.35 per share which is greater than the previous estimate of about $0.20 per share-diluted.
Thank you for your time this morning.
J.P.
Mark and I will now take any questions you may have.
Our first question comes from Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Ken.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
So we've now had about two years of performance that's come in I think it's fair to say worse than initial expectations.
And I realize a lot of it's China but some of it's domestic too right? I guess my question is this.
You're guiding to better performance ahead but why should we on the outside have a particularly high amount of confidence in that outlook? Because I know you said you're seeing better trends in October but it feels like every quarter something unexpected starts to bite this category.
So why should we have really a high level of confidence that 4Q will come in sort of as you're expecting? Is there anything particular that you're looking at that gives you that sort of upward trend in your outlook maybe? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think Ken first of all if I talk about the last couple of years is clearly we've been in an environment which has been a bit different than we were in some of the previous years.
So I think that as we continue to get greater clarity around at least our thinking we think that consumer bifurcation has been an important driver.
We're also seeing that there's expanded choice across the broader snacking continuum.
As an example snack bars there's about 30% more SKUs in the category than there has been over the last couple of years.
So we think we've had some trial there on some of those brands that has impacted some of our CMG brands.
And then of course we've had the trips issue where we've seen a continuing decline in trips across the category.
And on an everyday and instant consumable basis that's had a trending impact against our business as well.
So I think those are some things that we have to solve for.
I feel good about the contribution we've had from innovation into our business over that period of time so it's continued to contribute as we have hoped it would.
And then I think as we move into 2016 we have to have a balanced approach continue to execute against the fundamentals.
I think the pricing is actually coming through about as we would have anticipated.
And so really it's about the magic elixir of volume and how do we continue to drive and bring consumers into the category.
And I think those are all things that as I look to 2016 will be in our favor.
I would expect the international  the biggest impact we have against the business is of course FX.
I don't know that we'll be in that environment forever.
And then we really hope to get ourselves in a good place in China that we can begin to benefit for the reasons that we had the acquisition there.
So I agree with you.
It's been unusual in 2015 been some macroeconomic winds but I think the fundamentals in the category for retailers continue to be attractive as a category.
And we have to execute well.
Thank you for that but aren't those fundamentals getting less attractive? I mean I'm just confused about why the optimism if trips are down at a time when crude oil is down and fuel is down.
Usually trips are up in that kind of scenario.
So I'm just a little confused about what's driving some of the headwinds you're seeing right now? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think that if you look at the merchandising that we've seen on the floor so quality merchandise at some large retailers.
They've had a bit more of a clean floor policy than they've had so we have to adjust and make sure that we're doing the best we can to get our fair share of that merchandising.
And then as we move into Q4 we've got I think attractive investments from a GRP standpoint against our brands and we'll continue to build our brands as we go into 2016.
So I can't tell you that on a single Monday morning the world changes but I think the dynamics of the category continue to be attractive.
Consumers are snacking more than they ever have before.
We have to make sure our portfolio is attractive and then we have to build brands within that.
And I think history would suggest that we know how to do that and as the consumer participates we're going to definitely win against our programs.
Your next question comes from Jonathan Feeney with Athlos Research.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thanks very much.
Just to follow up on Ken's question a little bit real specific in North America where you had a little bit disappointing volume can you talk about not only this quarter the difference between your everyday business and your seasonal business? And then you talked about programming going into the fourth quarter.
How is that looking? How is your level of confidence in the everyday business looking versus that seasonal business that's been so steady for the company over the past couple of years? Thanks very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well we know one of the biggest drivers of the everyday business is effective advertising.
And we have strong programming in Q4 that we think will support the everyday business.
And that's one of the areas which we really have to focus against on some of our core brand growth and ensure that our advertising is working hard for us.
That's a part of Q4.
We continue to execute well against seasons so we expect in the important Halloween period that we're going to win share there.
So I feel as you say we've done well there.
I feel good about that.
And the everyday business is really impacted by trips.
So we really are going to have to see an environment where across retailers that trips begin to help us a bit where I think it's been a drag on the business overall here over the last 12 to 18 months.
That's helpful J.P.
So just so I'm clear relative to expectations it sounds like the everyday business has been a little bit tougher than seasonal has been relative to expectations.
Is that right? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think that's right.
Yes.
Yeah.
I think what you saw Jon that year-to-date June I think trips were down roughly 2% across xAOC+C.
And in the third quarter you saw trips down 4%.
And you saw as J.P.
referenced in his remarks C-store for example was down 9%.
Now it feels like and the early look on the data looks like September and October got better but it's that kind of choppiness that we historically haven't seen and that's been with us now  or really the retail environment in CPG space all along  going on a year and a half two years now.
And since by definition people are stocking-up for seasonal like Halloween trick-or-treating or whatnot it's a little bit less affected by trips right? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Correct.
Great.
Thanks very much.
And your next question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Morning Chris.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
I had just two quick questions if I could.
I want to understand first of all in the U.S.
with consumption being down a little bit but your revenue is being up in the quarter just the shipments versus takeaway and I guess maybe this is a better indication of the seasonal shipping that occurred in the quarter.
I just thought I'd get a little more color around that gap that occurred in 3Q.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So you saw a bit of a benefit just trying to get seasons on the floor as early as we could given some of the other things that we're seeing.
So we did have good seasonal shipments in Q3 to support some of the merchandising that's happening in Q4.
And then the other thing you don't see in those numbers which was also a benefit is some of our snacks and adjacencies which don't get measured in the CMG numbers and I think those were close to a point benefit to our business.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you for that.
If I could ask a quick question really around the guidance and this incremental dilution occurring from acquisitions the $0.35 I think you've been on $0.20 previously.
Does that incremental gap in relation to the reduction in earnings guidance you have for the year suggest more dilution that what you've lowered your guidance for the year? Does that imply a better North American performance I guess essentially or better overall let's call it non-SGM performance? Hi.
It's Patricia.
Yes.
So it definitely reflects better performance in our bottom line to overcome that added dilution.
I think of it in sort of two buckets.
One is in the expense line where as I mentioned before we have greater savings from our restructuring project that we announced in June.
We've kept a very tight lid on discretionary spending and that's probably about half of the difference.
I would say that the other half of the difference is more sort of technical things related to movement within the range as well as as I mentioned in my remarks interest at the lower end as well as the buyback.
So those are the two big buckets that we're using to make up that difference.
Your next question comes from the line of John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning John.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
J.P.
wondering if you could speak more to China in terms of maybe what you're seeing with the competition as it concerns price promotion and innovation and then maybe where you see the bottom occurring as this all plays out.
And from an expense perspective I realize you haven't provided 2016 guidance but how should we be thinking about incremental cost in China as you focus more on the small format retailers or maybe even opportunities to adjust your cost structure lower for the lower sales base? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Let me take the China piece and I'll talk specifically about our Hershey business in China.
So as you probably heard us talk before we are heavily weighted to the hypermarket channel in China versus having deeper distribution.
So even as we've grown our distribution it's largely been in the Tier 1 cities and it's also been more weighted to hypermarkets.
And the hypermarket channel has been more negatively impacted over the last 12 months than have other channels although the total category across channels is down.
But we're not as well represented and some of those channels have actually done better than the hypermarket channel.
So we have a weighting mix issue that's really impacted our business there which is one of the things that interested us so much in Shanghai Golden Monkey is it gives us better and deeper distribution across smaller stores supermarkets and then also Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities where appropriate.
So we think those factors are still relevant and that we'll benefit from that.
Obviously we've had some struggles in terms of the start-up of Shanghai Golden Monkey but the real drivers of why we made the acquisition still exist the distributions channel's there the manufacturing's there the brands et cetera.
So we think as we go forward and gain control of that business we'll definitely benefit from the greater penetration across all the channels.
But that's how I would think about what's happening there.
And then you have a faster evolution there probably than any place else in terms of e-commerce.
So in our category about 15% of the business is sold in e-commerce.
We're right about where the category is.
That piece of our business is growing very nicely.
So we're participating in that channel development quite nicely.
And so those are several things that I would mention about China.
So as your China recovery plan unfolds it sounds like you can get more mileage and better leverage out of the inherited Shanghai sales force as opposed to investing more feet on the street yourself? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
I think that's correct.
All right.
Thanks J.P.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Eric.
Inc.</span></strong> Morning everybody.
So I guess two questions sorry Mark.
The first one is I mean I know the outlook is a little more challenging than you'd like but I'm a little bit surprised that the decision to not give an adjusted long-term guidance is hinging on the 20% of Shanghai Golden Monkey that you don't own.
I mean you're already consolidated and just back out the 20%.
So that seems like that's just a financial exercise.
So is there something about this last 20% that is a real like impact to what you think you can do long-term on a global basis? And then I guess for Patricia the higher commodity costs that were mentioned as a negative to gross margins this past quarter I'm a bit surprised.
I mean it seems like most of your inputs are down.
So maybe you could give a little bit more color there and maybe a little view into 2016 as you see your hedged inputs.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
So Eric let's take this in two pieces.
I'll start and then Patricia can follow up.
So I think that we're being as thoughtful as we possibly can around how we think about our long-term guidance.
And I want to move us to an environment where we talk about a little bit long-term guidance and then we can talk about where we think we are within that range.
Sometimes we'll be above below whatever.
But given all of the moving parts that we've seen historically we've given our guidance on this third quarter call.
There's a lot of moving parts.
I wouldn't put it by any means all of that weighted into what's happening in China.
I think it's really we want to make sure that we have a good sense of what 2016 and beyond looks like from a category standpoint.
And we'll go from there and we'll probably talk about that in January.
And it's Patricia I'll talk about the higher commodity.
We did have a little bit of cocoa price inflation in the third quarter but I just want to go back to the fact that on a net basis obviously we're ahead because that cocoa inflation is why we priced.
We have good visibility into 2016 and I don't really want to get into this commodity or that commodity because where we remain focused is an overall gross margin focus and you can see that coming through in our third quarter results.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right I'll pass it on.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from David Driscoll with Citi Research.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning David.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks a lot.
Good morning.
And thanks for the question.
Patricia I hate to do this but I got to go over some old ground here.
I still don't understand the 2015 guidance reconciliation so $4.10 when you're barely moving the EPS number but it's like a tsunami of negatives.
You guys say U.S.
sales are weaker.
China chocolate sales are weaker.
Shanghai Golden Monkey negative $0.35 versus $0.15 worse than before; tax rate's worse.
These are large numbers so for this EPS number not to move.
You then gave some comments to  and I forget who asked the question -- but you said like the expense line greater savings.
That savings number is $10 million better  that's like $0.03 or something like that? It's de minimis.
Well David first one thing you're double counting on the tax because it's included in the dilution.
You don't know where we were in the $10 million to $15 million restructure savings in June so we could have been at the low end and now at the high end and that's a $15 million delta.
Patricia talked about the interest expense.
That's now at the low end because we ended up doing the bond deal in August but.
Yeah.
And just overall while you're right in terms of the savings related to the restructuring that we announced in June as I also mentioned we're just overall holding the line on discretionary spending beyond that specific impact.
And you could see that in our third quarter where ex-M&amp;A we were actually down year-over-year in our SM&amp;A excluding marketing-related expenses.
So it's all of those movements and it's a pretty big number.
Yeah I was going to make the same point Mark did.
Just to be really clear the tax impact related to Shanghai Golden Monkey NOLs is part of the walk of the dilution number moving from $0.20 to $0.35.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
So just final follow-up here for me then J.P.
there's a lot of moving parts.
It seems to me then that the focus is still just back on the sales line and you've got slightly weaker than expected U.S.
sales and clearly weaker China sales.
But you seem to be giving us the statement or this confidence that 2016 is clearly better and will be better.
And I think is that the message here is it that some of the things that are been happening that you just have a very strong line of sight to that the company will do better in 2016 on the top-line? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well you know I think David we want to go execute against the fundamentals in the business.
We continue to be optimistic about the category and the role the category plays with retailers.
We have a pretty balanced look at 2016 from both a top and bottom-line standpoint and we'll talk a bit more about that in January.
At this point with some of the things we're seeing with the consumer I think it's important that we focus on the things we can control.
We've got to make sure that our portfolio is compelling and we participate where we think that the consumer is going.
And we'll continue to read those things but we have to get in a position where we're winning share every day and growing our brands.
And we feel good about the plans we have.
We feel good about the innovation contribution to our business.
So from those standpoints I am optimistic.
I do think there are some macro issues that are impacting retailers as well as our business.
And so we've got to operate within that environment.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks for the comments.
Your next question will come from Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Rob.
Good morning.
Maybe you could give us a little more detail J.P.
on your comment about being under-leveraged in the value segment.
Are you considering introducing newer products or new initiatives to get bigger in dollar stores? Is that kind of what you're hinting around at? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well yeah sure.
I'd love to talk about that.
So in the chocolate segment we believe we've been under-represented in the premium part of the category.
While it's a relatively small piece less than 10% of the total category consumption we recognize that we have to do a better job there.
In the value segment a lot of what happened this year was really around sugar confectionery and sweets.
And we think The Allan Candy acquisition will enable us to do well there.
We also think there were some manufacturers that probably benefited from the spot price of sugar.
And based on where things are manufactured that could have given them an opportunity to invest in the category more so than in the past.
So the beauty of The Hershey brand is is it's one of the most accessible brands that there is.
Chocolate in our country from all manufacturers it's the best value per pound of any place in the world.
So I think frequency is something we have to make sure that we're driving.
I think the portfolio is largely attractive in chocolate but we need to work on the high end.
And in the low end we need to work on the sweet side.
And that can be channel-specific as well as across many other retailers.
So that's how I'd like you think about it.
And can I ask a quick follow-up? The lower merchandising levels it just kind of feels like that's kind of a new normal especially for one big retailer.
But your guidance you're kind of talking about it as if merchandising can reaccelerate.
How are you thinking of merchandising practices at retail for the category? Do you think they accelerate next year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well we like to think that we work well with all of the retailers across their different needs and the changing initiatives and things that they may have.
So we'll continue to focus on the places in the store where retailers want the merchandise and then we have to win that.
And if the way that we bring consumers to the category changes we have to adapt to that.
And some of that could be advertising; some of it could be different types of merchandising and so on.
So we always have to be flexible in the way we go to market and win where retailers have strategies and how that they want to connect with the consumers.
So I would expect us to do that.
It's not the first time in the history of the world that people have had clean floor policies or tried to clean up merchandising and get things out of the back room and a whole list of different things.
So we'll adjust with that and we'll win wherever we can.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Kenneth Zaslow with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning.
Hi Ken.
Two questions; one is over the last several years many packaged food companies have shifted its algorithm to more of a margin focus.
And your repeated commentary about balance is there maybe not a sea change but a shift in how you're thinking about your algorithm more to a cost restructuring even in both in the U.S.
and China? And my second question is in terms of category adjacencies you've had mixed performance on certain category adjacencies so trying to figure out how you're getting more confident in moving into the snack bites the snack bars categories and how do you assess the adjacencies.
Yeah.
I mean one thing Ken and I think on the balance how we were thinking about it is yes I know we're lapping a lot of one-time type of costs related to China this year but I think the way we've always thought about this business and even before we got into snacks there's never a shortage of places to invest around here.
And I think we have a lot of good big buckets that you'll see us continue to invest in on not only our core business which is always number one but always some of the snacks and adjacencies that we're talking about.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think good examples of that are KRAVE.
We've got our Brookside bars.
We mentioned Allan a little bit earlier.
And as we continue to look at snacking in total we've got a number of things that are on the innovation front that as appropriate we'll be bringing those things to market.
So I think as Mark says a lot of places to invest that are attractive and as appropriate we'll continue to expand our portfolio.
So there's not going to be a heightened focus on restructuring or cost savings? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
I think the way to think about it is is that first of all I think it's important that we always act with a scarcity mentality.
And certainly you've seen some of that in the numbers that we're talking about today in terms of where we're spending and choosing to spend.
So I think we'll continue that that way.
We also want to invest in markets where we're trying to grow our brands and volume is always the magic elixir so pace is important to think about.
So where we see there's opportunities we need to go to the ball there.
And when growth is a little tougher or less attractive we need to moderate in those places as well.
We'll continue to do that but we want to be a consumer-centric brand-building company and we'll invest appropriately.
And we'll go next to Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Jason.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
Real quick housekeeping question and then back to some of the other stuff we've been talking about; the second installment for Shanghai Golden Monkey where do we stand on that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So we're still working through and negotiating our position with them around the second closing.
We're still trying to bring clarity to a number of different issues where we may have different points of view around some things.
And so that's all still in process but we feel good about the progress that we're making.
And we'll go next to Alexia Howard with Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Can I ask about as you look forward the algorithm for sales growth in North America has been pretty heavily price-focused for the last 10 years or so.
I think you've taken three either high single digit or low double digit price increases for good commodity-based reasons.
It seems as though the cocoa commodity prices have been reasonably steady albeit at peak levels for the last few years.
Going forward does it have to become much more volume mix-based because it will be harder without a commodity-driven step-up to take more pricing? How are you thinking about the U.S.
sales growth formula going forward? Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think the first place that we would start is that we continue to believe that the category historically is going to grow in the 3% to 4% range.
So that's a starting point.
If you look over the last decade or even longer growth has always been a combination almost equally split between price and volume.
And as we go through this current period it continues to track around that model.
So what we believe is as I said earlier the real influencers on the category are really around this trips issue that has impacted the business more than it has been on price.
So I don't think the historical norms have changed.
Obviously in chocolate where we're a 45% share in the category we have a lot of responsibility in terms of category growth.
So we have to innovate and grow and compete for consumer occasions which are growing all the time across day parts.
And so we have to participate in that.
But I don't think there's anything around the category itself that would cause us to think that price et cetera is different.
Now to your point if we move into a period of time where commodities are less of a driver around the price piece as we've said historically you know we're a gross margin-focused company and we would have to make sure that we continue to do that to maintain the attractive gross margins that we have today.
But I wouldn't see us thinking about that significantly different.
And we'll go next to Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning everyone.
Good morning Bryan.
Just one question I just wanted to get a little bit of clarification on the true-up on trade promotions in China.
I just want to make sure I heard this right.
It's $80 million less than your expectation so I guess the gap between gross and net sales...
Yeah.
I'm glad you asked for the clarification.
No what we're saying is after the true-up our current net sales estimate is about $80 million.
Yeah.
I think it was around $90 million Bryan last time we spoke to you guys.
Time we talked.
Okay.
So the true-up in the quarter was about a $10 million differential? For the year.
For the year.
For the year.
Okay.
And then just as we think about that for next year does it imply that whatever your expectations were for net pricing at the start of the year you just have a different base net price? And so as you go into next year it's not that you necessarily add that back it's just your net price is lower than what you were originally assuming or is there something about that true-up that your net price realization that you'll recognize will be a little bit better next year? Yeah I mean on a hypothetical basis Bryan if gross sales are the same year-over-year net sales would be up because I have all this trade running through between gross and net sales this year.
So in a hypothetical situation where gross sales are the same year-over-year net sales would be up assuming there's no more trade.
But I think it's also fair to say that it is overall just a rebase to a lower level as well in terms of the gross sales.
And this concludes our Q&amp;A session.
I'd like to turn our program back to our speakers for closing remarks.
Great.
Thank you for joining us for this morning's call.
I'll be available all morning and afternoon too for any follow-ups that you may have.
And this does conclude today's program.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning everyone and welcome to The Hershey Companys Fourth quarter 2015 results conference call.
My name is Keith and I will be your conference operator for today.
All participants have been placed in a listen-only mode.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder please limit yourself to one question so we can get to as many of you as possible.
Please note this call may be recorded.
Mr.
Mark Pogharian you may begin your conference.
Thank you Keith.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to The Hershey Companys fourth quarter 2015 conference call.
J.P.
Bilbrey Chairman President and CEO; and Patricia Little Senior Vice President and CFO will provide you with an overview of our results which will then be followed by a Q&amp;A session with them; Michele Buck President North America and Myself.
Let me remind everyone listening that todays conference call may contain statements which are forward-looking.
These statements are based on our current expectations which are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements because of factors such as those listed in this mornings press release and in our 10-K for 2014 filed with the SEC.
If you have not seen the press release a copy is posted on our corporate website in the Investor Relations section.
Included in the press release is a consolidated balance sheet and a summary of consolidated statements of income prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Within the Note section of the press release we have provided adjusted pro forma reconciliations of select income statement line items quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.
The company uses these non-GAAP measures as key metrics for evaluating performance internally.
These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP.
Rather the company believes the presentation of earnings excluding certain items provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations.
As a result we will discuss 4Q results excluding net pre-tax charges of $39 million or $0.10 per share-diluted primarily related to the productivity initiative announced in June a non-service related pension expense and acquisition and integration charges.
Our discussions of any future projections will also exclude the impact of these net charges.
With that out of the way let me turn the call over to J.P.
Bilbrey.
Thanks Mark.
We made progress against many of our strategic initiatives in 2015.
And despite a difficult environment in the second-half of the year we delivered adjusted earnings per share diluted growth within the targeted range we provided during our second quarter conference call.
Fourth quarter net sales on a constant currency basis was slightly below our expectations and declined about 3%.
North America gross margin expansion resulted in solid operating profit growth and we continue to hold the line on overall expense control.
Hershey U.S.
CMG retail takeaway sequentially improved from Q3 to Q4 and increased plus 2.5% although market share was up about 0.2 point.
Seasonal performance was good and we gained market share in both Halloween and holiday.
Our fourth quarter marketplace performance was similar to the full-year.
Specifically combined fourth quarter retail takeaway at one of our largest retailers and within the dollar and drug channels was a solid plus 6%.
The drug class of trade was driven by our precision initiatives while the other two channels were winners from a consumer trips perspective.
However in the remaining channels our combined retail takeaway was only slightly up while small we also had meaningful gains in non-measured channels such as e-commerce and food service.
For the full-year Hershey U.S.
CMG retail takeaway increased 2.4% and was largely in line with category growth.
As a result for the 52 weeks ended December 26 2015 Hershey U.S.
market share was an industry-leading 31.3%.
Following a period of relatively consistent marketplace success where we outperformed the category our momentum slowed in the second-half of 2015 and was relatively in line with the CMG category as a result of increased competitive activity within CMG and broader snacks.
Over the last three years the average growth rate of the CMG category was about 2.3% below the long-term historical average of 3% to 4%.
As we previously discussed the category is being impacted by many of the same issues facing other food categories including changing shopping habits like channel shifting increased competitive activity and some retailers adjusting their merchandising practices and a proliferation of broader snack SKUs.
As a result going forward we estimate that CMG category growth will be in the 2.5% to 3% range.
Our goal is to outpace the category and gain share on an annual basis.
Additionally we have good visibility into our developing snacks portfolio and expect positive sales contributions from it in 2016.
Given our solid CMG position in North America and the investments we will continue to make in our snacks business we expect our North America segment to generate long-term constant currency annual net sales growth of 3% to 4%.
As we look to 2016 and beyond were taking actions that we believe will enable us to regain our North America marketplace momentum over our strategic planning cycle.
Some of the things youll see in the marketplace in 2016 to address broader snacking income bifurcation and lower trips include a broad-based launch of substantial snacking items including Brookside Bars Snack Mix and Snack Bites canisters as well as increased distribution of Krave meat snacks.
Youll see incremental investments related to core CMG merchandising in display activity and the introduction of branded pods that bring our brands to life in-store.
Although note that this will result in higher trade promotion as we strive to maintain the right mix of quality merchandising and related promotional price points.
Well also launch Cadbury Chocolates to the stand-up pouch targeting the mass premium market and begin a 500 store test featuring Scharffen Berger and Dagoba organic brands.
And well introduce Allan Candy sugar confectionery items in peg bags to appeal to a cost conscious consumer.
This is just a brief summary excuse me of some of the activity we have in North America this year.
Now for an update on our international business.
In late December we reached an agreement to acquire the remaining 20% of Shanghai Golden Monkey.
The acquisition is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2016 subject to government approval.
While the category in business has experienced slower growth were committed to the China market and the acquisition of Golden Monkey is important to Hersheys future growth.
We believe in the complementary advantages of Hershey and Golden Monkey and the opportunity that we have with these businesses together.
Earlier this month we kicked off the year of the Golden Monkey campaign.
The key elements of the campaign include activating TV and mobile advertising and executing merchandising and display at retail.
This is well underway as it started in early January.
Our China Chocolate fourth quarter net sales results were less than our expectations as we adjusted our sell-in for Chinese New Year given category softness.
In Q4 the contraction of the China Chocolate category accelerated and was down about 13%.
As a result for the full-year the category was about flat versus last year.
In a slowing category and our overweighting in hypermarkets this has impacted our performance negatively.
In 2015 Hershey retail takeaway was off a 11% and market share declined 1.1 points to 8.5%.
Similar to what we discussed over the last year category performance is being impacted by macro economic issues and the related impact its having on consumer shopping behavior and confidence.
And given the China news flow that weve all seen it continues to be difficult to gauge the consumers behavior.
Were focused on the integration of our businesses in building distribution on our portfolio.
And while small our e-commerce business in China is a bright spot.
In the fourth quarter our e-commerce business increased over 75% driven by solid China singles day performance.
For the year our China Chocolate e-commerce retail takeaway outpaced the category.
In 2016 well continue to invest in our e-commerce platform increase Brookside distribution and trial and focus on channel development.
In Mexico net sales in local currency for the quarter were about flat versus previous year.
For the full-year local currency sales increased 6%.
Within the chocolate category were seeing investments by all major manufacturers in a form of new products in core brand investments.
As a result our chocolate marketplace performances lagged the category.
Chocolate market share in the modern trade in Mexico for the year is off as our retail takeaway of about 4% lagged category growth of about 12%.
In 2016 within the modern trade well concentrate on portfolio core chocolate Hersheys and Kisses franchises and our small but profitable grocery branded items.
Our traditional trade initiative with Sigma is progressing and we expect our market share here to improve this year.
In Brazil local currency net sales in Q4 were slightly down versus last year given the macroeconomic environment and competitive activity.
In 2015 we were the fastest growing chocolate company in Brazil as retail takeaway increased about 13% resulting in a share gain of 0.2 point.
In 2015 we successfully exited Bauducco JV and established our own sales team and secured logistics agreements.
In 2016 we expect the growth will be driven by Hersheys brand mainly through pricing and core innovation.
Constant currency net sales in India declined in line with estimates around the phase out of our edible oils products.
This completes our transition to a confectionery and snacks-based portfolio.
We believe the macroeconomic environment and competitive activity in the international markets where we operate will continue to be a headwind for the chocolate category and Hershey in 2016.
Therefore we estimate constant currency international and other segment net sales growth of mid to high single digits in 2016.
Over the long-term we expect global economies when category trends to improve and our national business  and our international business on a constant currency basis will contribute about one point to our overall long-term sales target.
Despite the aforementioned macroeconomic issues facing consumers and competitive activity we believe the global confectionery category will continue to grow.
Well continue to invest in our core brands in the U.S.
as well as capabilities related to knowledge and insights.
And despite the slowdown in the international markets we will build on the strategies that weve established as they will benefit the company over the long-term.
Well also make incremental investments in our existing snacks platform as it will provided us with another lever of growth.
These initiatives should enable us to achieve long-term constant currency net sales growth of 3% to 5%.
Given the scale advantages of our North America business and a balanced approach to international investments the company expects to generate long-term earnings per share diluted growth of 6% to 8%.
Patricia will provide you with all of financial details that we believe are innovation advertising consumer investments and insights work within our confectionery and snacks business should enable us to deliver on our 2016 objectives.
Although note that sales and earnings will build throughout the year as our Q1 profile will continue to be pressured.
For the full-year excluding unfavorable foreign currency exchange of about 1 point constant currency net sales growth is expected to be around 3% resulting in an increase of adjusted earnings per share diluted of about 6%.
As we look to the long-term I remain encouraged by our prospects.
Hershey has many opportunities to leverage its U.S.
scale global brands and core capabilities.
Additionally were continuously examining our manufacturing footprint and overall cost structure and believe opportunities exist to maintain and improve margins.
Our balance sheet and cash flows remain strong and well continue to be disciplined in open to sources of growth via M&amp;A.
Ill now turn it over to Patricia who will provide you with some additional details on our financial results.
Thank you J.P.
Good morning to everyone on the phone and on the webcast.
Fourth quarter net sales of $1.91 billion decreased 5% versus last year and generated adjusted earnings per share diluted of $1.08 an increase of 3.8% versus last year.
Excluding the negative impact from foreign currency exchange rates of 1.9 points net sales declined 3.1%.
Pricing and net acquisitions and divestitures were 1 point and a 40 basis point benefit respectively offset by 4.5 points of lower volume due to slightly lower sales in North America versus estimates and the expected sales decline in China.
Fourth quarter North America net sales were slightly below expectations due to a decline in spreads and baking chips sales due to increased competitive activity.
Our focus on inventory levels at select retailers most likely looking to manage working capital and slightly lower seasonal sales than anticipated.
Excluding the 1 point impact of unfavorable foreign exchange rates in Canada North America net sales increased 1.2% versus the year-ago period.
Net price realization in this segment was a 2.3 point benefit and volume was off 1.4 points.
On a net basis the Allan Candy and Krave acquisitions in the Mauna Loa divestiture were 30 basis point benefit.
Total international and other segment net sales for the fourth quarter declined about 27% versus last year.
Foreign currency exchange rates and trade promotion were unfavorable by 5.7 and 4.2 points respectively.
In October Shanghai Golden Monkey acquisition sales were 1.1 point benefit.
The international and other segment core business volume was off about 18 points due primarily to the Chinese chocolate business and Golden Monkey November and December performance that was less than a year-ago.
Turning now to margins.
Adjusted gross margin increased 80 basis points in the fourth quarter however this was less than our forecast.
Gross margin expansion was driven by net price realization which was off versus our estimates.
Supply chain productivity and cost savings initiatives partially offset by obsolescence other supply chain costs due to lower volumes and slightly higher commodities.
We did benefit from lower dairy however this was offset by the higher cost of simple ingredients.
We called during fourth quarter we nationally debut Holiday Hersheys Kisses Milk Chocolates and Hersheys Milk Chocolate Bars made with simple ingredients and no artificial flavors.
These are some of the first products in Hershey to transition to simple ingredients of commitment announced last year.
Operating profit in the fourth quarter increased 1.3% versus last year resulting in operating profit margin of 19.9%.
The increase was driven by gross margin gains and lower SM&amp;A selling marketing and administrative expenses.
SM&amp;A excluding advertising and related consumer marketing and acquisitions and divestitures declined 5.9% driven by the implementation of the business productivity initiative announced in June and the companys continued focus on nonessential SM&amp;A spending.
Total advertising and related consumer marketing expense declined around 7% versus the fourth quarter of 2014; driven by planned reductions in international spending.
North America on-air advertising was higher in the fourth quarter although advertising and related consumer marketing expense for the quarter was in line with the year ago period as production costs were less than anticipated.
For the full-year North America advertising and related consumer marketing expense increased 3.1%.
Now let me provide a brief update on our international business.
As J.P.
mentioned earlier we reached an agreement in late December to acquire the remaining 20% of Shanghai Golden Monkey.
The agreement is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2016 subject to government approval.
We are concentrating on bringing the businesses together and focused on optimizing the structure for top line growth.
This is still a work in progress and well share our plans with you in the future.
In the near-term the business will not get back to the operating income level of 2014 and will be a drag on total company operating profit in 2016.
China chocolate category performance continues to be below the historical growth rate of a 11% to 12%.
In fourth quarter the China chocolate category was down about 13% as marketplace trends slowed across all channels affecting all major manufacturers.
This contraction impacted our Chinese New Year sell-in China chocolate category growth in 2016 is expected to be flat to slightly up versus 2015.
We estimate that our retail takeaway will be relatively in line with category performance.
In 2016 our China chocolate operating loss is expected to improve versus 2015 as we expect trade promotion to be lower.
However margins will be pressured given the decline in growth sales volume.
Mexico fourth quarter net sales in local currency were about flat versus last year.
For the full-year local currency sales increased 6%.
Brazil fourth quarter local currency net sales were down slightly versus last year given the tough macroeconomic environment and competitive activity.
As a result we are managing our costs and focusing on core brand SKUs that we think will enable us to improve our profitability in these two markets.
India fourth quarter local currency sales declined about 60% and we are in line with estimates as we phased out sales of edible oils at the end of the third quarter.
We expect this to continue to be a headwind for the first eight months of 2016.
Moving down to P&amp;L fourth quarter interest expense of $19.2 million declined $2.1 million versus last year or 9.7%.
For the full-year interest expense was $76 million and was in line with our previous estimate.
In 2016 we expect interest expense to be about $85 to $90 million.
The adjusted tax rate for the fourth quarter was 29.3% and 33.2% for the full-year slightly better than our estimates.
In the fourth quarter we recorded $25 million within the other income and expense line related to the previously mentioned U.S.
Government investment tax credits.
In 2016 we expect to purchase about the same amount of tax credits as we did last year which should result in an adjusted tax rate thats similar to 2015.
For the fourth quarter of 2015 weighted average shares outstanding on a diluted basis were approximately 219 million shares down 5 million versus last year and about a $0.02 benefit in the quarter resulting in adjusted earnings per share diluted of $1.8 or an increase of 3.8% versus a year ago.
Now let me provide a quick recap of year-to-date results.
Year-to-date net sales decreased 0.5%.
Excluding the negative impact from foreign currency exchange rates net sales increased 1.1% versus a year ago period.
Operating profit increased 1.8% resulting in operating profit margin of 20%.
Year-to-date adjusted gross margin was 46% versus 44.9% last year or a 110 basis points higher as a result of net price realization and supply chain productivity and cost savings initiatives partially offset by higher input costs and slightly higher commodity costs.
Year-to-date adjusted earnings per share diluted increased about 3.5% to $4.12 per share.
Turning now to the balance sheet and cash flow.
At the end of the fourth quarter net trading capital decreased versus last years fourth quarter by $40 million.
Accounts receivable was higher by $2 million and remains extremely current.
Inventory was lower by $50 million and accounts payable declined by $8 million.
Total capital additions including software were $119 million in the fourth quarter and $357 million for the year in line with our forecast.
This included capital related to the manufacturing facility in Malaysia.
In 2016 we expect CapEx to be in the $285 to $295 million range.
During the fourth quarter depreciation and amortization was $62 million and dividends paid were $123 million.
No shares were repurchased in the fourth quarter under approved program and to-date $230 million of outstanding shares have been repurchased against the $250 million authorization approved in February 2015.
For the full-year the company repurchased $403 million of outstanding shares.
In addition the company repurchased $15 million of common shares in the quarter and a $180 million year-to-date to replace shares issued in connection with the exercise of stock options.
This morning we announced that the Board approved an additional $500 million share repurchase program that will commence after the current program is completed.
This authorization is the result of the companys strong balance sheet and confidence that well deliver long-term earnings per share diluted growth of 6% to 8%.
We believe this business model will enable the company to generate meaningful and predictable cash flow from operations.
As such well continue to have Board level discussions related to capital structure including dividend increases value-added share buybacks and M&amp;A opportunities.
Cash on hand at the end of the quarter was $347 million.
This is lower than a year ago primarily due to acquisitions and share buyback.
In 2015 we faced a number of challenges as a result of changing shopping behavior and greater levels of competition.
Our plans for 2016 and beyond reflect the reality of the current retail and consumer environment.
We are confident in our ability over the long-term to execute at retail and provide consumers with CMG and snack products that can drive growth.
As J.P.
mentioned well continue to invest in our core brands in the U.S.
and key international markets and build on the strategies we have established as they will benefit the company over the long-term.
Well also make incremental investments in our existing snacks platform as it will provide us with another level  lever of growth.
These initiatives should enable us to achieve long-term constant currency net sales growth of 3% to 5%.
Given the scale advantages of our North America CMG business snacks margins that are lower than the company average and a balanced approach to international investments the company expects to generate long-term adjusted earnings per share diluted growth of 6% to 8%.
For the full-year excluding unfavorable foreign currency exchange about 1 point constant currency net sales growth is expected to increase around 3%.
The company expects gross margin to be about the same as last year.
The business productivity initiative announced in June is on track and the company is also focused on nonessential SM&amp;A spending as it continues to leverage existing resources.
Additionally well continue to invest in advertising and related consumer marketing including a greater shift to digital and mobile communications.
As a result the company expects adjusted earnings per share diluted to increase around 6%.
Before we open it up to Q&amp;A just a couple of thoughts on some of the items pressuring the first quarter.
First Easter is a week shorter this year.
Also merchandising in display space will be lower at select retailers as we will not lap their new floor designs until late in second quarter.
And as I mentioned earlier some of them are also focusing on caring lower levels of inventory.
As J.P.
stated direct trade will also be hired to ensure that we maintain the right mix of quality merchandising and promotional price points.
Competition for this space in the store is robust.
And we continue to listen to the consumer and invest in simple ingredients which were currently purchasing at a slight premium to traditional ingredients.
Thank you for your time this morning.
And well now take any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this call is recorded.
And we can take our first question from John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for the question.
Hey good morning John.
Good morning John.
John [indiscernible] I think Michele spoke to the plans for 2015 it was pretty specific in terms of the improvements in the retail coverage and space acquisition and sourcing from snacking.
And in Q4 you also had a bump from marketing but we didnt really see much aware ofshare gains as the year unfold us.
So maybe just in hindsight how did your execution evolve relative to that CAGNYplan and whats holding back your share gains there? Yes.
So John thanks for the question its Michele.
I would say two things relative to Q4.
First of all our biggest shortfall in Q2  in Q4 was really around our grocery and snacks business.
So we saw a lot of competitive activity both in baking and as well in spreads.
And I would say on spreads to some degree weve really learned our way to where we will win in that category where well focus.
Were doing well in jars and weve seen some price value issues in the instant consumables.
And then I would say the other pieces when it comes to CMG we gained share in the season so we had solid growth.
But we didnt gain as much as we anticipated because frankly we saw more competitive activity during the marketplace and we have adjusted our plans coming into the year this year to really dial up to be even more competitive to regain that share momentum.
Is there a sense that it involves more trade promo going forward or balance between advertising and promo? There absolutely is more trade promotion and more trade investment.
And as we look to this year you will see us investing more in trade.
There are more snack options out there so theres more competition.
As you know there are some retailers who are going to cleaner floor policies and so there is a little bit less space and more competition for it so.
One of the things John you would have seen over the course of the year if you just look at CMG pricing relatively modest as we got into the fourth quarter you could see a bit of lower pricing versus some of our average pricing as well and we believe that may have had an impact on some of our business.
Okay.
Thank you.
And we can take our next question from Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Bryan.
Hey good morning everyone.
So I guess just one question related to the change in your long-term growth algorithm.
And I guess could you describe I think in the previous algorithm there was some explicit expectation that M&amp;A would be a contributor to the growth algorithm? So could you talk about in the 3% to 5% sales growth expectation is there any expectation for M&amp;A? And also I guess within that how much are you expecting in North America sort of the non-confections business to contribute to growth? So the expansion of things like Krave and other snacks how does that build into the 3% to 5%? Thanks.
So for clarification we would not have had M&amp;A in any of our previous guidance nor would it be in the current algorithm.
The way you think about it broadly without breaking out the Krave pieces of the business which are  some of those is relatively small.
You should really be looking at three to four in North America one in international.
So if you think about this year it certainly falls within that range.
But I think as you saw in our comment we talked about 2.5% to 3% and a point.
So I think thats a good way to think about it in terms of 2016.
And specifically on snacking weve looked to have that at between 0.5 point and a point off of the CMG.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yes.
And we can take our next question from Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Good morning Ken.
Good morning.
Hey everybody.
According to Nielsen I know it doesnt tell a whole story.
It looks like there were some share losses for Hershey in both the Halloween and Christmas Seasonal Candy or at least especially Chocolate.
First of all is that accurate? And second could you give us a little color about what happened and what the company is doing if it is an issue to remedy the problem this year? So if you look at both of those on a volume basis if you look at all of our seasons over the course of the year we were up about 3.7% on a volume basis.
If you look at Halloween it was about I think about 7.5 and it was about half that I think it was 3 point so 3 something on holiday.
But its about a 0.25 point in terms of share which is below what we would have set our targets.
But we did gain share in both of those at a modest level but we did gain share.
Okay.
And if you just  so Ill just leave it at that unless Michelle has anything she wants to add.
No I would just go back to the comment I made about some increased competitive trade dollars to get merchandising during the seasons and weve adjusted that in terms of our offerings going forward.
Okay.
Ill follow-up after the call.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Well take our next question from Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning Eric.
Hi good morning everybody.
I guess on the  my first question has to do with the Premium.
I think J.P.
you mentioned going with Dagoba and Scharffen Berger? And also wed be introducing a Cadbury item as well that Cad  the couple of those would be think  you think about those as mass premium and then Scharffen Berger would obviously be in super premium.
Yes and remember Eric there was a  the latter Scharffen Berger and Dagoba more of a 500 store test market right now.
500 selected kind of retail environment test.
But Cadbury is a broader offering since it plays in mass premium.
Okay.
And then just a follow up more of an accounting question I guess for Patricia.
So now that you own a 100% of SGM.
Does that mean that theres greater EBIT losses that have to be recognized versus I guess maybe you had a minority interest kind of a back out on the net income line or on a pre-tax basis.
But this International EBIT get negatively affected by the fact that you now own a 100% and then Ill pass it on.
Thanks.
No it doesnt.
So first just to be completely technical we havent yet closed the rest of the Golden Monkey and its been a 100% consolidated from day one.
Day one yes.
Okay.
So a 100% of their sales and a live loss Eric has been in our P&amp;L since day one.
Okay okay.
Thank you.
Pass it on.
And well take our next question from Alexia Howard with Bernstein.
Good morning Alexia.
Good morning everybody.
Can I ask about the outlook for 2016 on the Chocolate category in the U.S.? It looks from the Nielsen data though its been very on-again off-again a lot more precarious I guess that weve seen in previous years.
What do you think happening in there in terms of consumer behavior retailer behavior and are you confident that or where do you see the category gets back to as we get back maybe into the middle of the year and past the Easter pressure? Thank you.
Well I think that we would see Chocolate by itself being somewhere between 2 and 2.5 its a fairly broad range.
I think Alexia what we think about in our 2016 plan is were going to have a strong focus on our core brands and then we also think theres an opportunity for us as weve looked at quality merge over 2015 that innovation plays an important role and being able to get that incremental quality merged even and be competitive.
So were also very focused on that.
So I think what well see is as long as there is a strong focus against big core brands and then we can achieve good quality merge against our innovation activity that becomes the incremental activity that makes us competitive not only within chocolate specifically as you asked but it also makes us competitive against any potential trial at least youll get from competitive brands so Alexia I would just add to that.
We also know chocolate is really a destination for the seasons during the seasonal periods and that will continue.
So I think we kind of think about it thats a solid foundation and base that consumers are looking for chocolate in particular around those times in addition to all the other comments J.P.
made about how were seeing the year.
Thank you.
In the interest of time Ill pass it on.
Thank you.
Well take our next question from David Driscoll with Citi Research.
Good morning David.
Hi good morning.
This is actually Alexis Bornin in for David this morning.
Okay.
Greetings.
Hi international.
So Hersheys international segment was profitable in 2013 and 2014.
How obviously the segment took a big step backwards in 2015.
When do you expect the segment to return to profitability? That is not something that we layout an exact timetable on.
But clearly we are not going to be back to those 2014 levels in 2016.
Okay.
Thank you.
And we take our next question from Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning Jason.
Hey good morning folks.
How are you? Good.
Good.
Good a little more trade spend in North America as well there.
Should we expect pricing to be a bit of a drag in that segment as well? Well I think what youre going to see in total is that it will be a more of competitive environment and that youll see a greater trade spin in 2016 than you would have seen in 2015 which could lead to some lower net prices.
And so obviously that makes  that obviously has a mix effect in terms of the P&amp;L.
The other thing I would just add to that I think it is important to note some of the trade spending will go into promoted price points but some of that will also be investment to really get spaced in other ways.
Yes because Jason Michelles last point its pretty important with more snacks weve all seen them coming on over the last few years I dont think that will abate.
Everybody is trying to get to the perimeter of the store.
So thats based  its not expanding anymore lets face it.
Its just very competitive to get.
Yes got it.
And then one other quick follow-up question.
You mentioned the cost upgrades weigh in our margins in terms of simple ingredients as well as the mixed impact from lower margin snacking items.
Can you give us a sense of the magnitude of margin headwind youre anticipating in 2016 from those initiatives? I mean we typically dont talk about inflation the inflation as a percent looking forward well always tell you what it is.
When we report for various competitive reasons we dont want to get into that level of specificity right now.
But we do have net inflation this year.
Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
Ill pass it on.
And well take our next question from Jonathan Feeney with Athlos Research.
Good morning everybody.
Hey good morning.
I want a little bit more detail about the competitive landscape not only within chocolate candy.
You mentioned pretty high levels of competition a couple times in the narrative but also some of yourcompetitive sort of pushback and different behavior you might have gotten from some of this extension into other categories with Krave and some of the non-candy snacks? Yes I think so I think weve been fairly clear in terms of how weve talked about the confectionary environment.
If I go beyond broader snacks the comment I would make specifically to meat snacks is that in the premium segment that we compete the meat snacks business continues to be up about 25% overall meat has slowed a bit in terms of growth and of course a core part of our focus is to continue to build distribution around the Krave business and then also youll us introducing some extended items to the current line that we have as we built out that distribution.
So from that standpoint I dont think its a significant difference is probably a positive for us.
If you think about broader snacking I think I said on a previous call that as you look over the last 18 to 24 months theres about 80 SKUs which have been added in that segment.
And therefore its more fragmented it has before gives the consumer different alternatives for trial.
And therefore weve seen some competitiveness and a little bit of a competitive pressure from there.
But I think again it comes back to making sure in each segment that we compete that were winning merchandising and display as we talked about earlier.
But those would be a couple of things that I think are part of the existing landscape that we face.
Thanks J.P.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Good morning Andrew.
Good morning.
Hershey obviously talks a lot historically about being a gross margin focused company.
I guess this year youve got to reinvest a little of that into trade promotion and youve got some ingredient cost youve talked about from some of the new products and things.
I guess is it a shift at all in Hersheys long-term emphasis on gross margins or more getting the base right and moving from there? And then last thing would be with the reduction in the long-term growth outlook I guess does it change managements or the Boards view on thinking about maybe creating even if its larger scale partnerships or in pieces of the business whether it would be overseas or in the U.S.
to I guess help compete and grow its kind of a broader question? Yes.
So I think if you think about your first question around gross margin well always defend our brands and well be brand building consumer centric company and invest in our brands.
But I would tell you that its not a change in philosophy.
We continue to be a gross margin focused company.
And there maybe years of periods of time when you have to change the way you get there.
But well always have the gross margin at the top of our list and again there can always be a mix effect of how you get there.
Im not going to speculate around any kinds of comments from partnerships and things like that.
We continue to look for ways to grow and build our business and things that are good for our shareholders.
And so were continuously looking at our strategic options in terms of how we build our business.
And so that would be the only comment that I would make.
Thank you.
Well take our next question from Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Good morning Rob.
Hey good morning.
Thanks for the question.
I thought that the guidance for 2016 sounds very reasonable and sets a logical base.
But the one assumption I wanted to ask you about was China I think going back to kind of flat to up a little bit from a category perspective.
And then just in the broader context of international being down as much as it was.
What are the drivers that that you think helps China stabilize especially given your modern trade exposure? And then the other countries too you have economic issues in Brazil.
Mexico was very competitive.
It seem like this is an area where youve been surprised in the past.
Did you consider something a little more cautious just in the near-term for international? Yes.
There is a couple of things that I would say and maybe Patricia and I both talk about this a little bit.
But if you look at the total international business about 80% of the impact of that business really occurred in China.
And so we know that that was a very unique event.
About another 10% of that was really India in the oils business and then of course you have the impact of the FX.
And then in a local currency basis of course you had both Brazil and Mexico which were positive contributors albeit modestly.
So thats a little bit of where you see us come out.
Also and I mentioned this a bit earlier as we look at our different opportunities I think what youll see us is moderate our pace and approach to where we think we could best allocate capital and still be consistent with our long-term investments and strategies.
And so that also has an influence I think and I think its quite pragmatic actually to go to where you think the ball was going to be.
So those are a couple of comments that I would make.
I dont know Patricia has anything or perspective that she want to add to that.
Yes I think that we  clearly it was a tough year in China overall and it was this combination of macroeconomic forces in China that were not alone in experiencing as well as the added complexity of an integration that didnt  an acquisition and acquisition that frankly didnt go the way we wanted.
We certainly can start to see our way moving through those two aspects.
And while I think the macroeconomic environment in China is not something Id ever want to predict.
Some of this is in our control as we start to bring the businesses together and understand what we have in terms of brands in terms of supply footprint in terms of channels in terms of distribution.
And thats where we are going to be focused on the things that we can control.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning Matt.
Hi this is  good morning.
This is actually Pam Kaufman calling in for Matt.
I was hoping that you could elaborate on the stable advertising and marketing expense that you saw in North America during the fourth quarter? And the companys previous commentary about plans for increased advertising and programming during Q4? Did it have the anticipated impact on your non-seasonal business in the U.S.? Well first of all a comment I would make is that if you look at the numbers part of what you have to recognize there is GRPs were actually up in the fourth quarter.
And some of our actually administrative costs and non-working costs were actually what was lower.
So the brand investment actually in terms of eyeballs on brands and attention to brands was up.
And so as you parse through the numbers thats an important piece to understand.
Michele may have a point that you were talking about effectiveness or anything beyond that.
But its important that you understand that as you look at the absolute numbers.
Yes so the  that  it was the non-working kind of production costs that actually we just had some timing shifts on.
And then relative to impact on the business we felt good about our every day takeaway in Q4.
So while we dont have all of the analytics back on the spend based on what we know to-date we feel pretty good about it.
And one other thing I would just point out is as you look at the takeaway as weve launched Snack Mix and Snack Bites which is key innovation on our core brand.
Its actually the Snack Mix piece is rolling into the salty snack category and not CMG.
So as you look at every day takeaway just keep that in mind.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Palmer with RBC Capital Markets.
Good morning David.
Good morning.
Ive seen data from the NPD Group which points to decline in volume for the sweet snacks mega category.
And I guess weve seen some falling in the chocolate category as well.
Im wondering I mean clearly we can see some things that might be more category specific like packaging innovation thats run its course.
But when youre thinking and looking at the consumer I know you do a lot of consumer insights work.
Do you see a big mega reasons or shifts by the consumer that are things you can just to you mentioned in the release today that your  that the consumer want simpler ingredients.
But could you comment on certain other invisible things perhaps on a short-term basis that you think you could push against to cause category growth improve? Thanks.
Yes Ill make a couple of comments.
So if you look at what the overall category trends and Ill kind of give you where we were.
If you look at the chocolate category it was up.
We were up pretty consistent with the category.
If you look at non-chocolate we actually lagged to the category and then if you look at gum and also mint we would have outperformed the category on those segments.
We have deemphasized a little bit the level of activity that we had in some of our sweets business.
And so thats certainly showing up in the business one brand in particular was a great brand.
But if we just look at the absolute programming we had on a brand like TWIZZLERS it is a little bit lower and that ended up showing up some in the overall business.
If you look at the sweets business and some of the channels where it does well you can also follow that with call it income cohorts.
And one of the things that were doing in 2016 is using our Allen Candy acquisition to leverage our portfolio there on pegged bags and where in select places where we think that can really benefit us.
So we did see within that segment an opportunity and were going to try to leverage that as well.
And then some of our competitors also had the emphasis on some of those brands which also would have had an influence on our performance as well.
Thank you.
And will take our last question from Rob Dickerson with Consumer Edge Research.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Rob.
Hello good morning.
I just had a kind of a larger question around your debt capacity and how look at leverage.
I know previously you spoken to that 1.5 to 2 times levered to adjusted EBITDA.
But I mean how do you think that over time is running a lower level of leverage relative to your peer set? And one could argue potentially an inefficient capital structure is the right way to go or if youre talking about snacking opportunity and leveraging your distribution network in the asset base.
Then why not increase your leverage a bit more than you have historically actually grow a bit more quickly via acquisitions and not in China I mean more on the snacking side in the United States.
Thank you.
Great.
Thanks for the question.
We really like where we sit right now on a leverage basis is something that we go back and pressure test every year.
And one of the benefits that it gives us is that it gives us a lot of capacity to do something incremental.
Its something big and attractive and incremental came along in the category.
We would be very open to it I dont think that our leverage would be a constrained in that situation.
But as we sit here today with opportunities in front of us we feel very good about where we are.
Okay thank you.
And just very quickly Ive seen some material on your SOFIT brand.
I havent heard you mentioned much but I think I believe its selling on Amazon.
Is that something we should see more of in the future such that SOFITwould be rolling out like a Krave or like a Brookside into mass retail or is that for the time being to sell on price? Yes.
I think SOFIT is test and learn.
Its a brand out of India.
Its soy protein and its part of our efforts to learn about the protein segment plant-based.
And so youre seeing it more  from a test and learn standpoint were going to be able to make that in the U.S.
versus obviously try to ship it from India.
So as you know with beverages and so forth closed on is always a good idea.
But its a brand we think is very interesting.
But its really about us having a learning approach.
And Im delighted you found it on Amazon because we just Yes.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you for joining us today Ill be available for any follow-up calls that you may have.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude todays program.
Thanks for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.