Good morning.
My name is Stephanie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Headwaters Incorporated first quarter fiscal year 2011 conference call.
All lines have been placed to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question and answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Thank you.
Tricia Ross from Financial Profiles you may begin your conference.
Hello we lost Trisha.
She’ll probably join us shortly.
My name is Sharon Madden I’m Vice President of Investor Relations for Headwaters Incorporated.
I would like to welcome all of you to our call today as we report our fiscal 2011 Q1 results.
Today’s call will be conducted by Kirk Benson who is Headwaters Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Don Newman Headwaters’ new Chief Financial Officer.
Also joining us will be Bill Gehrmann who is President of Headwaters Resources and Heavy Construction Material segment as well as Dave Ulmer who is President of Tapco International.
Dave will be discussing Headwaters Life Building Products segment.
Before we get started with the call this morning I would like to take a moment and remind everyone of Headwaters upcoming analyst and investor day conference being held in Salt Lake City on March 4 at the Grand America Hotel.
It is a half day conference beginning at 8:00 am and concludes around 1:00 pm Mountain time.
If you’re interested in attending please feel free to contact me directly at 801-984-9428 or you can email me at <a href="mailto:smadden@headwaters.com" rel="nofollow"><u>smadden@headwaters.com</u><u></u></a>.
As we start out call this morning I would like to remind you that certain statements made during this call including statements relating to our expected future business and financial performance may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 both as amended.
Forward-looking statements in their nature address matters that are to a different degree uncertain.
These uncertainties which are described in more detail in the annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise except as my be required by.
You may find Headwaters’ annual report on Form 10-K quarterly report on Form 10-Q and SEC filings readily available from the SEC’s website.
I would now like to turn the call over to Kirk Benson our Chairman and CEO.
Kirk.
Thank you Sharon.
We’re very pleased with the quarter overall.
Performance of our Heavy Construction Materials segment exceeded expectations for revenue and EBITDA margins.
We anticipated that Light Building Products revenue would be soft compared to last year because of the end of the government home buyer incentive that expired in April 2010.
We were also negatively impacted by increasing raw material costs in our Accessory Product group.
The Energy segment had a very good quarter.
We had two major changes in personnel and this morning I’d like to introduce you to Don Newman who has agreed to become Headwaters’ new Chief Financial Officer.
We thank Steve Stewart to his commitment to Headwaters and the great service that he’s provided to us and wish him well in his second retirement from Headwaters.
We welcome Don.
The second change happened in January.
We announced that Jack Lawless would no longer be with us to direct our Light Building Products segment.
Jack was with Tapco for many years and helped guide the company during his tenure.
We felt the timing for a change was appropriate for Jack and Headwaters.
The change removes one layer of management reduces costs and evidence as Headwaters commitment to rebranding itself as a Light Building Construction Materials company.
The leaders of each of our major product categories will report directly to the CEO.
We are already working on additional changes that will more closely integrate our product categories which will lead to improved efficiencies and customer responsiveness.
We’ve invited Dave Ulmer as the leader of our Siding Accessory product category to present the Light Building Products script today.
Dave will be taking Jack’s place at our accessories unit.
Dave has over 20 years of experience in building products and ten years’ experience with siding accessories.
We are very pleased to have Dave with us and look forward to working with him to continue the development of our Light Building Products segment.
[Merky Lance] will continue to lead our Architectural Stone category and [Bob Wisnet] will continue to lead our Texas Block business.
Now we’d be happy to take any questions on either change in the question and answer period of the call.
Now turning to slide two you can see Headwaters had a very good first quarter.
Strong Heavy Construction Materials and Energy revenue led the way for an 11% increase in revenue and a 23% increase in adjusted EBITDA.
We repaid $10 million of our 16% debt reducing interest expense for the 12 months by $1.6 million.
Don will discuss our financial performance in more detail.
Dave Ulmer will discuss Light Building Products and Bill Gehrmann will go through the Heavy Construction Materials and Energy.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Don for a discussion of the quarterly financial results.
Thank you Kirk and good morning and thank you for joining us.
Before discussing slide three I wanted to mention that we expect to file our 10-Q form later this week.
My comments will be directed to the slides that were sent out this morning and to a lesser extent to the condensed consolidated balance sheet and statements of operations that were attached to the press release.
During 2010 we indicated that both our Light Building Products and our Heavy Construction Materials businesses had shown signs of stabilization.
Those indications continued to be confirmed in the quarter ended December 2010.
Revenue for the quarter ended December 2010 was up 11% from the same period last year.
Heavy Construction Materials revenue was up 13% year over year largely due to increased service and ash sales.
Light Building Products revenue declined 2% year over year reflecting continued soft housing construction repair and remodeling markets.
Energy revenue was up 74% year over year largely due to coal cleaning where revenue more than doubled year over year.
We will discuss the segment performance in more detail in coming slides.
Gross profits were $32.8 million in the current quarter a 12% increase over the same period last year.
Gross margin percentage was 21% in the current quarter which is consistent with last year’s gross margin percentage.
During fiscal 2010 we began tracking our contribution margin in addition to traditional GAAP measurements.
Headwaters typically has a contribution margin which is revenue less variable cash operating expenses of between 45% and 50%.
As revenue increases in the future this high contribution margin has the potential to have a significant impact on Headwaters’ gross margin and operating income performance.
Operating expenses were down 1.2% year over year due in part to cost reduction programs initiated in fiscal 2010.
Headwaters has a significant amount of debt issuance costs and debt discounts that were amortized through interest expense.
As a result cash interest expense is much lower than interest reflected in our net income.
During the quarter ended December 2010 recurring interest expense totaled $14.7 million which included $12.1 million of interest to be paid in cash and $2.6 million related to amortization of debt issue costs and discounts.
Current interest expense also included $2.3 million of debt redemption premiums and accelerated debt discounts and debt issue costs related to retiring $10 million of our 16% convertible subordinated notes in the quarter.
As a side note cash interest expense on an ongoing basis for fiscal 2011 is expected to be around $47 million.
Losses before income taxes totaled $19.1 million for the quarter ended December 2010 which is a $3.4 million and 15% improvement over the same period last year.
As we discussed in our last earnings call in early November Headwaters appetite for taxable losses will be limited in fiscal 2011.
As a result we have not recorded a tax benefit related to net operating losses or income tax credits generated in the quarter.
In fact in the current quarter we have recorded a tax expense of $1.6 million which largely relates to state taxes in profitable jurisdictions.
Although this tax benefits of net operating losses and income taxes generated in the quarter were not recognized in the quarter’s income those benefits can be carried forward and potentially realized in future periods.
Consistent with prior periods we have included income tax credits generated during the period in our adjusted EBITDA.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $17.9 million which is up $3.3 million and 23% from the same period last year.
The increase reflects improved Heavy Construction materials and coal cleaning performance.
As you know we significantly strengthened our balance sheet during fiscal 2010 through debt refinancing and through retirements.
We continue to focus on improving our capital structure.
In November we retired $10 million of 16% convertible subordinated notes.
We have no material debt maturities until 2014 and we ended December 2010 with approximately $68 million of cash on our balance sheet.
Slide four shows our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio.
Net debt to adjusted EBITDA was 4.08 to 1 at the end of the current quarter which is consistent with the ratio at September 30 2010 and is significantly better than the 5.47 to 1 at the close of fiscal 2009.
Net debt to adjusted EBITDA will change throughout the fiscal largely due to changes in our cash balances reflecting our seasonal working capital pattern.
During the quarter we amended our $70 million asset based revolving credit facility to lower its borrowing rate and to increase flexibility to use the facility including amending the fixed charge coverage ratio triggers and limits.
We closed the current quarter with $116 million of liquidity reflecting $48 million available under the revolving facility and nearly $68 million of cash.
Capital expenditures were $5.2 million in the current quarter down 29% from the $7.3 million in the same quarter last year.
We expect total capital expenditures for fiscal 2011 will be at levels comparable to fiscal 2010.
Slide five shows revenue and adjusted EBITDA trends since fiscal 2009.
As you can see we have had three consecutive quarters of year over year revenue growth since the low point in Q2 of fiscal 2010 due in part to aggressive steps taken by the management team to take out costs and improve operations.
We have now experienced five consecutive quarters of year over year adjusted EBITDA improvement.
We are hopeful that these trends will continue as we move out of this recession.
Starting on slide 6 Dave will cover Light Building Products.
Thanks Don and good morning everybody.
I would like to introduce myself.
I’m Dave Ulmer.
I’ve worked in the Light Building Products industry for over 20 years.
I’ve been with Headwaters Accessories group for ten years and have most recently been responsible for all our sales marketing customer service and related functions.
We have developed a very strong relationship with our customers and pride ourselves in service.
Starting on slide six revenues from our Light Building Products segment in the December 2010 quarter were $69.7 million a decrease of $1.5 million compared to the December 2009 quarter.
The decrease in revenue for the quarter was primarily a result of lower sales from our manufactured architectural stone and siding accessory categories where sales fell $2.5 million in the quarter compared to the prior year.
First half comparisons for 2011 and into the June quarter will be difficult because federal tax incentives may have moved new construction and remodeling activity into periods prior to their expiration and out of the period subsequent to their expiration.
Prior year revenue may have been higher than it would have been without the federal tax credits.
Revenue in the Light Building Products segment included a $1 million increase in our regional concrete block category in the December 2010 quarter compared to the December 2009 quarter.
This was the first quarterly increase in seven quarters for this product category pointing to a stabilization of the Texas market.
We are excited about our opportunities in the concrete block category as the Texas market returns to a cycle of growth new business recently developed with the big box companies and our new retail location for sale of brick and stone veneer.
In addition our vinyl siding tool category which is heavily dependent upon remodeling was up 17% over the December 2009 quarter.
Historically remodeling has led the housing industry out of many of its past down cycles and it is expected that remodeling once again will play that role.
Finally we introduced a number of new products and line extensions which were met with much enthusiasm at the recent International Builders Show in Orlando Florida including a cedar shake roofing tile three new cellular PVC trim profiles a line of accessories for fiber cement applications new stone veneer profiles a vinyl siding stone profile outdoor living products a 50<sup>th</sup> anniversary Tapco brake with numerous new design features and a line of sealers for our Eldorado stone products.
As you can see on slide seven the impact from our lower revenue higher material costs and a one-time benefit from the sale of assets that was included in the 2009 quarter have made the combined effect of reducing our adjusted EBITDA by $4.3 million to $6.6 million in the December 2010 quarter.
Gross profit margins in the Light Building Products group decreased from 26% to 23% due to lost leverage on revenues as well as higher material costs.
Cost of our primary resin material increased 12% in the December 2010 quarter compared to the December 2009 quarter but was flat to last year’s average cost.
All of our resin materials have experienced similar cost pressures over the prior 12 months.
We have been successful in mitigating some of the upward pressure through the use of alternative suppliers and recycled materials but we anticipate that there will be additional cost pressure throughout the remainder of the fiscal year.
We will continue to pursue cost reductions in all of our raw outputs through improved sourcing and alternative materials.
During the quarter we completed two small product line acquisitions.
We have been selling outdoor living products in our stone product categories for about a year.
Sales have increased sufficiently that we acquired the manufacturer of the glass fiber reinforced concrete box system allowing us to expand production and provide timely deliveries to customers.
We also acquired Study Build.
Study Build is the manufacturer of mounting blocks for fiber cement siding.
This is a very exciting line extension for us because James Hardy one of the largest manufacturers of fiber cement siding is recommending our product and promoting its use.
Now I’ll turn the presentation over to Bill beginning on slide eight.
Thanks Dave and good morning everybody.
Revenue for the December 2010 quarter in our coal combustion products business increased 13% year over year.
Overall product revenues increased year over year though revenues continue to be weak in the three largest cement consuming regions of the United States including California Arizona and Nevada.
Headwaters Client services provides site services to many of its utility clients.
These services include constructing and managing landfill operations operating and maintaining material handling systems and equipment maintenance.
While these services typically have lower margins in our product sales they are not a seasonal nor is impacted by declines in construction spending.
Client services revenue for the December quarter were up 8% on a year over year basis and were 30% of our total revenue for the quarter.
Slide nine provides a review of the proposed EPA regulatory changes.
As we discussed on our last call in May of 2010 the EPA released a draft proposal for the regulation of coal that was submitted for public comment in June.
While the EPA continues to indicate that they support the beneficial use of coal combustion products because of the significant environmental benefits including reductions in greenhouse gas emissions they are also concerned about the safety of landfills after the breach of a wet [inaudible] embankment in Tennessee in 2008.
That proposal outlined two broad potential regulatory approaches for the disposal of coal combustion products.
One approach is a sub title C designation for disposal classifying coal combustion residuals as a special waste.
This would provide the EPA with jurisdiction over the management of coal combustion products.
The other approach is a sub title D designation which means that the coal combustion residual will be managed under the same guidelines as solid and industrial waste.
Under this approach individual states would have the jurisdiction for disposal regulations under sub title D.
The engineering standard for landfills are essentially the same under both approaches.
[Inaudible] like the one in Tennessee will essentially be phased out under either approach.
The beneficial use of coal combustion products remains exempt from regulation under both approaches.
Under either approach increased regulations for disposal are likely to increase the opportunities for Headwaters client services.
The original 90 day comment period was extended 60 days and the deadline for comment was November 19.
The EPA also held eight public hearings in conjunction with the public comment period.
It has been estimated the EPA received over 400 000 comments during the public comment period.
After review of the public comments the EPA will go back to the OMB with final proposed regulation.
This review is expected to take 18 to 24 months based on the number of public comments that were submitted and the EPA is under no legislative or jurisdictional deadline.
Litigation over the final rule will also likely delay enactment for several years.
Slide 10 shows the year over year growth in revenue.
Gross profit for the December quarter was $14.9 million compared to $12.5 million for the December 2009 quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA for the December 2010 quarter was $11.8 million compared to $9.4 million for the December 2009 quarter and the adjusted EBITDA margin for the quarter was up 190 basis points year over year.
Moving to slide 11 I will now update you on our Coal Cleaning business.
December 2010 quarter revenues were up 108% year over year and up 8% over the September 2010 quarter.
The average revenue per ton of coal sold in the December quarter was $39.00 an increase of $5.00 per ton year over year and an increase of $4.00 per ton compared to the prior quarter.
Headwater sold 452 000 tons of coal in the December 2010 quarter compared to 253 000 tons in the December 2009 quarter.
On slide 12 you can see the adjusted EBITDA including tax credits was $2.6 million compared to an adjusted EBITDA loss of $3.3 million for the December 2009 quarter and an adjusted EBITDA of $1.1 million for the September 2010 quarter.
As we have discussed before we continue to focus our sales efforts on the metallurgical coal market at all of the plants that have access to reserves that meet metallurgical coal specifications.
We also continue to lower our ash content in order to improve quality and increase value.
We’ve begun to work at our Pinnacle plant that will allow us to expand our production capabilities allowing for more volume to be sold into the metallurgical markets.
We could see an increase in monthly production by the end of the March quarter from that project.
We also feel that we can continue to increase the value of our metallurgical coal products by blending it with the coal being produced by our side hosts.
On the steam coal side of the business we continue to reduce our cost structure.
We are matching production to sales in order to manage inventory.
We continue to look for opportunities to introduce new utility customers to our refined coal so that we are positioned when the market for steam coal rebounds.
Section 45 tax credits continue to be the focus of our steam coal operations.
While the domestic steam coal market remains soft we anticipated that the continued acceptance of our refined coal in the thermal markets will create additional sales opportunities.
Our increased focus on the metallurgical coal market and our efforts to improve quality and blend with other high quality metallurgical coal will continue to increase the acceptance and value of our met product.
These efforts combined with the flooding in Australia and the forecasted growth in steel production make up optimistic that we will continue to see corresponding improvements in our operating income for 2011.
Thanks Bill.
We turn now to slide 13.
Year over year revenues in our Energy segment increased 74% to $21.8 million.
This revenue increase was after the loss of revenue of $3.3 million generated from our hydro peroxide facility that was sold in fiscal 2010 and from the sale of ethanol rinse credits during fiscal 2010 which have also been discontinued.
We achieved another milestone for our HCAT technology during the quarter.
Neste Oil formerly acknowledged that it was accepting HCAT as a commercial technology.
[Neeka Arola] is a Vice President and Refinery manager at the Porvoo Refinery.
He was quoted as saying “The work that we’ve done on this new catalyst technology has been ground breaking and is yet another example of Neste Oil’s commitment to staying at the front of the refining field.” The introduction of HCAT technology has decreasing bowing and helped improve overall performance.
HCAT technology will also improve the potential to increase conversion rates.
Since the success at Neste has been announced we have seen a significant uptick in refinery interest and we are more optimistic that we will begin to realize some of HCAT’s potential.
Slide 14 shows adjusted EBITDA increased from a negative $9.1 million to a positive $3.3 million in the quarter.
We had to also overcome the loss of rinse credits and the sale of the hydro peroxide plant in our EBITDA numbers.
Looking at slide 15 you can see some of the takeaways for the quarter.
Light Building Products continues to see soft demand and there is the potential for some raw material cost pressure.
Heavy Construction Materials and coal cleaning had a very good first quarter with improving revenues and margins.
Overall we are on track to achieve our guidance for 2011.
So I’d now like to turn the time over to the operator for the question and answer period.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from Steve Sanders with Stephens Incorporated.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Morning Steve.
With Kirk may first how should we think about the revenue and margin potential on Neste and then can you expand on your comments about the interest from other refineries? Do you have testing ongoing with one or more? What would be your reasonable expectation in terms of that process and then maybe adding another customer? Relative to the financial model and what you could expect from HCAT is that the revenue generation is in the range of something slightly north of $1.00 per barrel of resid that’s treated with the material.
So if you had a customer that had say 40 000 barrels per day you can take the $1.00 a barrel and times the 330 days and you’re going to get in the range of $12 million or so of revenue from a typical customer.
It will be higher or lower depending upon the price per pound that’s negotiated but it’s going to be in that $10 million to $12 million range.
The fixed costs that we’re required to carry this product is in the $7 million to $8 million range and that basically is reflected in our P&amp;L all those fixed costs.
So on the contribution margin for the – so sales is most of the variable cost the variable cost being primarily the cost of materials that contribution margin is going to be in the 40% range 40% to 45%.
And so that’s basically how you could model this HCAT going forward and we would not anticipate a significant increase in the fixed costs and it should be relatively stable as far as the variable costs are concerned.
The second part of the question was the increase in revenue.
We actually have a second refinery that is currently running HCAT and so they’re in the process of evaluation.
We don’t know how that evaluation is going to turn out although we’re quite optimistic because as we’ve been saying for a number of years HCAT does what it is purported to do which is it allows a refinery to reduce filing which improves the efficiencies in their reactors.
So we’ve got another refinery that is moving ahead and of course we don’t know how it’s going to turn out yet but we have the potential of having a second customer.
Other refineries have approached us.
There is some truth to that statement that once you get a commercial reference it makes a huge difference and so we’re starting to experience that.
We have two proposals now that we’ve made in the last three months or so two refineries and so they’re starting to evaluate those proposals.
There is another couple of refineries that are moving in the direction of doing some pile plant tests on their own feedstock and I think that we are as optimistic as we’ve ever been relative to HCAT.
Okay thanks.
And then Bill I think you gave us some detail on the service side of the (inaudible).
It looks like the bulk class business was up substantially so can you talk a little bit more about that and specifically address what you’re seeing in terms of pricing and volumes and some of your key markets.
Sure.
Obviously product sales revenues were up year over year.
Some of this can obviously be attributed to weather differences and some of the shovel ready projects finally getting to the point where concrete was being poured.
In regards to volume and pricing moving forward Steve obviously the PCA fall forecast is basically forecasted just a slight increase in consumption going into 2011 based on the seasonality of the business and then being impacted by the weather we’re experiencing now.
It’s a little hard to get our hands around what we think consumption and volume of sales is going to be but in talking across the three regions we continue to be optimistic.
In regards to pricing we’ve had some price increases in a few areas.
Typically our pricing increases go into effect in April.
We have taken a very close look at the various marketing areas and some of those will be seeing some fairly significant price increases.
The cement manufacturers basically have floated out $8.00 to $10.00 ton cement pricing increases and in the next couple of months we’ll be able to see how much of that sticks in the marketplace.
But we do think there is some opportunity for pricing upside and as we come out of what is typically our lowest season our lowest quarter as far as volume sales we’ll be able to get a little better visibility on what volumes will look like for the rest of the year.
Steve let me add a little bit to that which is relative to the March quarter as everyone is aware weather has not been our friend in January and so the weather has put a bit of pressure on revenue both on the Light Building Products and Heavy Construction Materials going into the March quarter.
Right.
Right.
Okay and then last question for Dave welcome and I appreciate the color on some of the raw material pressures and some of the tough times.
I did not hear you mention anything about pricing going forward so should we assume that that’s not really a lever you can pull at this point in the cycle? Dave I’ll lead into that a little bit.
We’ve had some – we’ve had price discussions.
You hear Bill comment on that from Heavy Construction Materials perspective.
We’ve had the same kind of price discussions in Light Building Products.
I think that if we move into an inflationary period from a commodities perspective and raw materials perspective pricing strategy is going to be very important at Headwaters and critical in maintaining margins because there is the potential of some inflationary pressures from raw materials and commodities.
So Dave why don’t you go ahead and comment on that a little bit more? Yeah I think that what we’re trying to decipher right now is where the market will settle after some pretty significant increases and we are looking at every brand we have and every product category we have to look at how the both raw materials impact them and as well some other costs regarding freight and packaging and those things and we’re having some meetings in the next couple of weeks again with raw material suppliers to determine are we getting the best deal from them number one and number two what we have to do to raise our prices and how much those would be based on where did the market go and where is the market going to settle.
Okay.
The helpful thing is that we’re not the only ones that are experiencing these cost pressures from crude oil prices so we’ve got a lot of company.
Okay.
Thank you very much for taking the questions.
Your next question comes from Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
Please go ahead.
Morning.
Just following up on the cost side I think it sounds like there’s going to – - you’re going to play a little bit of a waiting game here and we should expect in a volume flattish to down market on Light Building Products that margins should still see some headwinds going forward.
Is that fair? Yeah I think that there’s going to be pressure on margins from raw material cost increases primarily those that are resin based.
But as Dave indicated we’re being quite proactive in addressing the issues so we’re being proactive on two fronts.
One is relative to the cost.
For example we’ve increased the amount of our recycled material and that’s had a beneficial impact on us and we’re also in conversations with suppliers.
So we’re focused on the cost side of it.
But in some of our as Dave indicated we need to look at each one of our brands because in some instances it’s going to be easier for us to pass through those increased raw material costs for some brands than for others.
It depends on market share.
It depends upon the competitive environment and so we’ve got to be – we have to be very strategic about price increases.
And then finally as I indicated it’s a general issue not an issue that’s specific to us and that will be that’s quite helpful because the other companies and competitors will be under similar margin pressures and so they’ll have an inclination to want to raise prices.
But can you refresh or recall what happened when oil was up in the 130 level? I know we were in a very sharp decline on a volume standpoint but it seems like we’re going to be again isolating to Headwaters it seems like it’s going to be some delicate price increases in the market where the volume is pretty tough to come by.
What happened last time was we were able to raise prices and we were able to pass through those raw material cost increases and the price increases stuck and it was – and so we were successful the last time around when we had these kinds of cost pressures.
So we think that we’ll be able to – - we’re certainly – it’s top of our list to be able to manage the issue.
Only time will tell of course how successfully we’re going to be and so we wanted to make sure that everyone is aware that there is the potential of some margin pressure because of raw material costs but we have been successful with price increases in the past.
That’s helpful.
And then on more of the strategic side Kirk are you able to share or give us an update where you’re at on the thought process whether you’re more firm on doing something or in keeping these businesses together or is there some evaluation or some time frame in the near future that you’re evaluating whether to segment them or drive a little bit of shareholder value here.
I don’t think there’s been a change in our general direction.
We’ve indicated to the market that we are going to move in the direction of Heavy Construction Materials and Light Building Products and separate from the energy segment of the business.
I think that continues to be our strategy.
We feel like we are – the confusion of being in energy and construction materials we believe continues to have a negative impact on our valuation and we’ve worked hard to improve the financial performance of the energy segment and you can see the evidence of that in the 12/31 quarter.
And so we’re having some success in making the energy segment more valuable that facilitates our strategy to separate.
And part of that strategy to separate is focused on valuation from a market perspective and our belief that we are discounted because we are in these different sectors and so we want to address that issue.
But the other thing that we want to address is the balance sheet and so to the extent that we could sell some of the non-core assets and generate cash to pay down debt that’s a high priority for us to accomplish.
And then finally if I may given the guidance what does that imply what type of range are you targeting on free cash flow and if it’s a metric of revenue that’s fine but is $40 million to $50 million a number that’s feasible to achieve in fiscal 11? If you take our EBITDA number our guidance is $85 million to $100 million and as we indicated we’re on track to achieve that objective.
Our trailing 12 months EBITDA I believe as disclosed in the press release is about $98 million.
So we continue to feel comfortable that we’re on track to achieve that kind of EBITDA.
From the EBITDA we’ll have cash interest expense in the range of $47 million to $48 million and CapEx in the range of $20 million to $25 million and income taxes in the range of $1 million to $2 million.
Okay so that if I did my math and followed along you’re about $20 million to $25 million of free cash flow.
I think that’s a little bit high.
Okay.
One of the things that make that number is a little bit high is you need to back out.
To really get to a cash flow number as everybody knows we include credit in our EBITDA number and we’ve been doing that for 10 years so we’re being consistent in doing that.
But if you back out those credits of about $8 million or so $7 million to $8 million that would reduce the amount of the real cash flow.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Chip Moore with Canaccord.
Please go ahead.
Just looking at the model on the expense side it looked like SG&amp;A came in a little better than we were expecting.
Maybe you could just talk about run rates there going forward.
I don’t think that there’s anything that we’re currently facing that would dramatically change the trend in SG&amp;A.
We did have a few things going on in the quarters that we had some severance in the 12/31 quarter and we’re going to end up with some severance in the 3/31 quarter as we made some changes in the Light Building Products business.
We think there’s some continued opportunity for some changes there.
And so there could be some one-time effects in the 3/31 quarter.
Generally though I think the trend for SG&amp;A is pretty flat.
I don’t see any real strong pressures up or down for SG&amp;A.
Maybe we might actually be able to improve it a little bit.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And on coal cleaning maybe you could give us the mix of met versus steam coal and then where you see that going once you get Pinnacle ramped up.
So Bill you’ll probably want to respond to this from a percentage of the total production how much is steam and how much is met.
I know that during the year we turned on some of these steam facilities.
We had more of the steam facilities idled a year ago than we do today.
And so we’re producing more steam coal today than we did a year ago.
But we’ve also got opportunities in the met side as well.
So the dynamics are changing a little bit but probably the percentage of the steam is probably going up a little bit because we turned on these facilities.
But Bill why don’t you go ahead and add to that.
Sure.
Going back year over year the December 2009 quarter steam coal represented roughly 95% of our overall sales tonnages.
As Kirk mentioned at that point in time met coal Pinnacle was just starting to come back up and run at that point.
We have four steam coal facilities idled.
We brought some of those online.
For this past December 2010 quarter steam coal was 75% of our overall sales.
Steam coal sales were up about 100 000 tons year over year but as we ramped up our met coal production and sales that number grew larger.
So steam as a portion of overall sales actually declined.
Okay.
And sticking with the coal cleaning side any update on divesting any of those individual assets? I think we continue to make progress.
We’ve gone through a number of potential buyers and we have discarded some of those buyers as transactions that we don’t think meet our criteria or goals.
We have identified new buyers and so we’re basically going through a process of identifying transactions that will meet our financial objectives as well as our operating objectives so it’s going to be a continuing process.
We’ve identified a couple of folks that may be interested in an entire portfolio although I continue to believe that the most likely outcome is individual sales.
We would probably favor a transaction of the entire portfolio that – but I know there are couple of instances where we’re working on that.
But it’s at this point I think the more likely outcome is one off sales and that means it’s going to take a while for us to get this done.
Yeah I guess just last one on the balance sheet can you talk to us about next priorities for debt repayments what we should be think there.
We’re trying to continue to be relatively conservative relative to our cash management and making sure that we both from a seasonality perspective as well as contingencies.
And so as we feel comfortable in repaying more of the debt excluding asset sales because if we sell assets then that’s generating additional cash which will be easier for us to apply to a debt repayment.
I think that we continue to have $9 million of 6% to 8% debt on the balance sheet and so that’s one alternative for repayment and then after that’s done we then will turn to the senior debt for repayment and we’ve got of course plenty of senior debt so that will take us a while to get that repaid.
This is Don.
One thing to think about on the structure we have also the 14.75% debt that’s sitting on the balance sheet.
We are restricted from being able to pay that down before maturity so logic would say well why wouldn’t you attack that 14.75 debt before you go to the senior debt.
That’s the reason why we’d go to the senior debt first because we are restricted.
All right.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Dan Mannes with Avondale Partners.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
Morning.
A couple of follow up questions here.
First on the Light Building Products side you had a comment on your slide about some acquisitions of new products.
Can you give us a little color first what if any contribution they had in the quarter and two what the cost was of acquisition.
I think – they were both small so they’re like product line category extensions and so they’re small both from an acquisition perspective as well as a perspective of a contribution in the quarter.
I think they’re probably in the range of $2 million to $3 million is the range of the acquisition cost.
As far as the contribution during the quarter it’s the outer living product was probably more than the Sturdy Build which is the mounting block toward the fiber cement but I would say there’s probably – - I mean it was negligible.
It was probably in the hundreds of thousands of dollars range and so not much in the way of a contribution.
Okay.
No that’s helpful.
Briefly on the coal cleaning side you mentioned your mix at about 75% steam 25% met.
Can you talk to us at all about sort of the sales cycle versus the production cycle? I’m just wondering if there is sort of any one thing i.e.
sort of loading up a boat or something like that so you sold more in a quarter than in the next especially on the met side.
It just seemed like it’s been lumpier than we would have thought from a revenue recognition standpoint.
And I think Bill can add color to this but the met is going to be somewhat lumpy because of the way that the shipment works.
The steam should be less so but the met certainly will be.
So Bill what do you think? Yeah I think we shared some of that.
You know for example when we made the shipment to China that required roughly 55 000 tons so it did take us a little while to produce and get that material down to where it was loaded on a ship.
Right now most of our shipments are going out in 20 000 to 30 000 ton vessels or pieces of those so we may see a little smoothing out of that and as we get into the blend in some of the things our site hosts are doing with facilities they’ve picked up will allow a little more steady movement.
So unless we get into some large shipments 50 000 to 50 000 tons of – and that’s typically been (inaudible) only I think we’ll see some of that lumpiness smooth out moving forward.
Is that fair to say though that it maybe impact this quarter.
Maybe you sold more than you produced in this recent quarter.
That’s something you expect to change going forward? As we’ve shared Dan what we’ve done is tried to match production to sales.
If you take a look at our overall production to our sales for the last three quarters we have essentially done that so we feel pretty good.
But there are going to be times where you’re going to see a variance from one to the other if we have a large movement all at one time where we had to ramp up production to match a shipment in the following quarter.
You may see some of that but we’ve made quite an effort to forecast accurately forecast our needs and produce to those needs.
Sure.
And then briefly on the tax credit side you guys noted I think it was about a $2.9 million add back to adjusted EBITDA for EBITDA relative to tax credits and my impression was you’re only getting the tax credits which is a little over $6.00 a ton on the steam coal piece and based on the 75/25 the steam coal piece was only about 340 000 tons.
So I guess I’m just wondering were there are you booking tax credits on the met coal piece or is there something else I’m missing? You can’t let the – - so the credits don’t apply to the met coal so it’s only on the steam coal.
And there is one other.
There is a tax credit that is associated with the ethanol facility that happens once a quarter and it’s the 12/31 quarter and I think there is a little bit of that total number includes a credit from the ethanol facility.
So there is – - that only happens once a quarter and I think that is in the 12/31 number and that probably explains a little bit of the difference.
Okay.
Real quickly just on the tax side as you look out to third and fourth quarter to the extent that you are operating income positive in those quarters given they’re seasonally stronger will you pay taxes in a normal fashion then or will it still be at sort of the current negligible level? I think that – - I don’t think you do until – - Don you answer that question.
It’s a little more technical.
It’s over my pay grade there.
What you can expect is something similar to what you saw this quarter.
The requirement under the U.S.
GAAP is that you have to have evidence over some period of time and think in terms of multiple quarters that you have an appetite for the credits before excuse me for the tax benefits including NOL’s and credits before you can start recognizing those as a good guy in your financial statements.
And so we’ve got to become profitable and then evidence that that profitability is not an anomaly before we can start picking those benefits back up in the income statement.
I’m not even talking – - I’m saying would you book normal tax value? If you make $1 million pretax in the third quarter will you actually be booking for 40% tax provision or will it still be at the current nominal rate? No it’s the current nominal rate.
Okay.
So we may be waiting into maybe late next year or maybe even later before you look like a sort of more normal tax person That’s correct.
Okay.
And then just the last thing from a presentation perspective on your slides the energy technology segment the EBITDA you show there is that inclusive of coal cleaning or is that the energy segment ex coal cleaning? That’s inclusive.
Okay.
Got it.
Thank you.
Okay.
Your next question comes from Edward McCabe [ph] with Clean Value Partners.
Please go ahead.
Hi everybody.
Kirk could you kind of size the market for the HCAT business.
Does it apply only to ebulated bed refiners and how many are there and how many barrels per day would your technology apply to? The initial niche in which we are focused is the niche defined by the ebulated reactors.
The technology does have application beyond the ebulated bed reactors and so there is a much broader opportunity.
But that broader opportunity is more difficult to attack because the CapEx is higher and so as we get a – - as we’re successful in this ebulated bed market niche that will position us for this broader application of HCAT.
Now the ebulated bed niche the current production is about 500 000 barrels per day.
There are a number of facilities in the process of construction so that 500 000 is going to up to in the range of 700 000 to 750 000 barrels per day over the next couple of years and there are a number of refineries that are looking for expansion beyond that 750 000 barrel per day number so even that niche is a growing market.
Right.
There’s a growing application even within our niche.
That’s great.
And you may have touched on or Bill may have touched on this during his coal section and I hopped off for a second.
But do you have plans for those three idle facilities to bring them online anytime soon? And I assume those are steam or thermal coal facilities.
Yes.
They are steam facilities and each one that has a little bit of a different story and so I don’t think those facilities are going to be coming online in the next – - it could be next fiscal year before those three facilities come back online.
Is it are there operational issues or just not enough demand to get them going? It’s mostly it’s mostly – - well it’s a – - as I said each one of them has a different story.
Feed stock is a big issue and so feed stock is probably the predominant issue.
Right.
Okay.
That’s great.
And this is a question as it regards if you sold a steam facility and you have the tax credit sitting in your balance sheet but you can’t utilize them currently because you’re not profitable.
Can you sell those tax credits along with the facility? Yes.
A transaction could be structured that way.
It becomes more complicated.
Right.
But there is a transaction structure that would accommodate that.
Okay.
Okay good enough.
Thanks very much guys.
Thank you everyone.
Operator with that we will go ahead and conclude our call.
We’d like to thank you all for your participation.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Headwaters Inc.
Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today Monday May 9 2011.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Tricia Ross of Financial Profiles.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you.
Welcome everyone to the Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2011 Headwaters Inc.
Conference Call.
Before we begin I'd like to make note that -- and apologize that we have had a technical glitch on the slides if you are trying to access them through headwaters.com.
This should be resolved within an hour or so.
But in the meantime if you would like to follow along with the slides we suggest you either go to earnings.com streetevents.com or Yahoo Finance and you will be able to access the webcast through one of those methods by putting in Headwaters' ticker HW.
Alternatively if you do not want to go through that you can e-mail me at tross@finprofiles.com and I can e-mail you a PDF of the slide presentation while the call is going on.
Again apologies for that technical difficulty.
I would now like to turn over the call to Ms.
Sharon Madden Vice President Investor Relations of Headwaters.
Thank you Tricia.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today as we report Headwaters' fiscal 2011 Q2 results.
Today's call will be conducted by Kirk Benson who is Headwaters' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Don Newman Headwaters' Chief Financial Officer.
Joining us will be Bill Gehrmann who is President of Headwaters Resources and Heavy Construction Materials Segment; and Murphy Lents who is President of Eldorado.
Dave Ulmer President of Tapco International will be available during the question-and-answer session of the call.
Before we get started today I'd like to remind you that certain statements made during this call including statements relating to our expected future business and financial performance may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 both as amended.
Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are to different degrees uncertain.
These uncertainties which are described in more detail in the annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC may cause our actual future results to be materially different from those expressed in our forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise except as may be required by law.
You may find Headwaters’ annual report on Form 10-K quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings readily available from the SEC's website Headwaters’ website or directly from the company.
I'll now turn the call over to Kirk Benson.
Kirk? Thank you Sharon.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on our quarterly conference call.
All of us on the call this morning want to express appreciation for your interest in Headwaters.
As we've gone through the down cycles over the last 5 years our employees have demonstrated a consistent dedication to make the business better.
We continue along that path.
Although at first blush  the March quarter appears quite complicated it can be summarized into 3 elements: first we had multiple nonroutine charges that affected net income; second reported revenue was essentially flat year-over-year up a little in building products and down a little in the service area of coal combustion products; third although revenue was flat costs particularly in Light Building Products increased putting pressure on margins.
Those are the 3 things that tell the story of the quarterly financial statement.
Well we also accomplished several important things during the quarter that benefited Headwaters.
First we refinanced our senior debt pushing out maturities improving free cash flow by $6.8 million and reducing risks.
Second we restructured  administrating functions closed facilities the result of which should be an increase to free cash flow of about $4.3 million.
We successfully instituted a price increase in Light Building Products to offset raw material costs.
We settled IRS audits with no impact on Section 45 credits reducing our risk to credit carry forwards.
And we obtained a final judgment in the Boynton matter capping the exposure at $60 million and reducing the risk of a potentially higher amount allowing us to be somewhat more aggressive in our cash management.
We felt good about the $11 million in improvement to free cash flow and the continuing efforts that we have undertaken to improve the company.
After Don has finished the review of the financials Murphy Lents the President of Eldorado Stone will talk about Light Building Products and Bill Gehrmann will talk about coal combustion products and coal cleaning.
Don? Very good.
Thank you Kirk.
Good morning and thank you everybody for joining us.
Before discussing Slide 3 I wanted to mention that we'll file our 10-Q later today.
My comments will be directed to the slides that were sent out this morning.
And to a lesser extent to the condensed consolidated balance sheet and statements of operations that were attached to the press release.
As Kirk mentioned Q2 continues – Q2 reflects the continued overall stabilization of sales volumes but also the impact of changes in sales mix weather and increases in raw materials and other costs.
Our results were also significantly impacted by nonrecurring items which I'll talk about in a moment.
Year-to-date our revenue is $282 million a 5% increase from the prior year revenues of $268 million.
Revenue for the second quarter was $127 million a 1% decline from the prior year revenues of $128 million.
This quarter we recognized nonroutine charges totaling $127 million.
We recorded a $69 million charge related to refinancing the 11 3/8% senior secured notes.
The charge represented redemption fees the write-off of issuance costs and discounts for the old notes and other fees related to the redemption.
There are a number of ongoing benefits from this refinancing and we'll talk about those benefits in a few minutes.
We recorded a $37 million non-cash charge related to impairing certain coal cleaning assets.
We recognized a charge to reflect that we have several idled facilities and a number of plants operating at processing levels well below their capacity.
The net book value of the coal processing plants after the impairment is roughly $45 million.
Sale of the coal cleaning portfolio continues to progress; however we can't be certain when the sales process will be completed or the ultimate cash proceeds from the sales effort.
We reached a milestone as Kirk had mentioned related to the Boynton litigation when the court upheld the jury verdicts.
We recognized a $15 million charge in the quarter to bring our legal reserves up to the amount of the final judgment.
And we posted a bond for $16 million in order to preserve our rights to appeal the judgment.
Adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter was $4 million down from $13 million in 2010.
We're going to give color regarding the Q2 performance as we progress through the presentations.
Our liquidity remains strong with $51 million of cash in the bank and $50 million of availability under the ABL Revolver at the end of the quarter.
Let's look at Slide 4.
Slide 4 reflects year-to-date earnings.
The year-to-date results were significantly impacted by the Q2 results including the nonroutine items.
As you recall the Q1 results were favorable to the prior year with revenue up 11% and adjusted EBITDA up 23% over the prior year.
On a year-to-date basis revenue for the first 6 months of 2011 of $282 million exceeds the prior year by 5% but adjusted EBITDA of $22 million again this is for the 6 months ended adjusted EBITDA of $22 million is 19% below EBITDA for the first 6 months of 2010.
Let's move to Slide 5 for a closer look at the second quarter results.
Revenue for the quarter ended March 31 was $127 million which is consistent with the prior year.
Adjusted EBITDA was $4 million in the quarter which is down $9 million from the same period last year.
I draw your attention to the bridge in the lower right corner of Slide 5.
This bridge highlights some key drivers on the year-over-year decrease.
Increases in Light Building Products costs were responsible for roughly $3.5 million of the EBITDA decline.
Heavy Construction Materials revenue and bad debt drove roughly $2 million of the decline.
And finally the 2010 Energy segment results included $2.5 million of nonrecurring income.
Murphy and Bill will talk more about these dynamics in their presentations.
Let's move to Slide 6.
In March we completed the refinancing of our $328 million of outstanding 11  3/8% senior secured notes.
The notes were originally scheduled to mature in 2014 along with approximately $150 million of subordinated debt bringing total 2014 previously scheduled maturities to nearly $500 million.
As a result of the refinancing we were able to push $328 million of those scheduled maturities out to 2019 significantly reducing our refinancing risk profile.
We were also able to reduce coupon rates on the senior secured notes from 11.375% to 7.625% a rate near historic lows.
As a result of the refinancing our annual free cash flows will increase approximately $7 million and our annual interest expense will decrease approximately $8 million.
The refinancing also enables us to be opportunistic about retiring our outstanding subordinated debt.
Of course subject to cash availability.
Let's go to Slide 7.
Slide 7 shows net debt to adjusted EBITDA.
Our net debt to adjusted EBITDA was 5.5:1 at the end of the current quarter which is consistent with the ratio as of March 31 2010 but higher than the ratio at the end of the last fiscal year.
The increase from last September reflects the increase in debt with the recent refinancing the seasonal decline in cash balances as well as the decline in LTM adjusted EBITDA which I've just mentioned.
Net debt to adjusted EBITDA will change throughout the fiscal year largely due to changes in our cash balances which is reflective of our seasonal working capital pattern as well as the changes in LTM EBITDA.
Starting on Slide 8 Murphy will cover Light Building Products.
Thanks Don.
Good morning everybody.
Starting on Slide 8 revenues from our Light Building Products segment in the March 2011 quarter were $62.7 million an increase of $1.4 million compared to the March 2010 quarter.
Year-to-date the Light Building Products revenue of $132.4 million is flat to the March 2010 year-to-date revenue.
The increase in revenue for the quarter was primarily a result of increased sales from manufactured architectural stone and regional concrete block category where sales increased $2.5 million in the quarter compared to the prior year partially offset by a $1.1 million decrease in our siding accessories category.
Revenue for the Light Building Products segment included a $1.2 million increase in our regional concrete block category in the 2000 -- March 2011 quarter compared to the March 2010 quarter.
This was the second consecutive quarterly increase in 8 quarters for this product category pointing to a stabilization of the Texas market.
We're excited about our opportunities in the concrete block category as the Texas market returns to the cycle of growth and we benefit from new business with the big box stores and our new retail location for brick and stone veneer sales.
In addition our vinyl siding tool category which tends to be a leading indicator for remodeling was up 4% year-to-date over the March 2010 year-to-date revenues.
On material production and transportation costs related to oil prices  had a negative impact on adjusted EBITDA of about $2.1 million.
Miscellaneous SG&amp;A made up the difference in the total decline of $3.6 million.
Costs on our primary resin material increased in the March 2011 quarter but we've been successful in mitigating some of this upward pressure through the use of alternative suppliers and recycled materials.
We'll continue to pursue cost reductions in all of our input through improved sourcing and alternative materials.
We've implemented an upper price adjustment for our resin-based products which will capture the raw material price increases.
And our price increase is being accepted in the marketplace.
The price increase will be effective for part of our third quarter and all of the fourth quarter.
Looking at Slide 9.
Over the last several years continuous improvement has become an important part of our culture.
During the quarter we executed restructuring activities that will result in very positive returns.
We eliminated duplicate administrative functions and moved towards consolidation of several locations.
The total cost reflected in our income statement was $6.2 million but the cash cost is only $1.6 million.
Benefits from the restructuring totaled $5 million in operating income with a positive cash savings of $4.3 million.
The savings relates primarily to salaries transportation costs and rent.
Slide 10 graphically shows the change in revenue in EBITDA for the quarter year-over-year.
I would now like to turn the time over to Bill Gehrmann.
Thanks Murphy.
Good morning everyone.
Starting on Slide 11.
Revenue for the March 2011 quarter in our Coal Combustion Products business was $45.1 million compared to $47.3 million for the March 2010 quarter.
Headwaters' planned services provide site services to many of its utility clients.
These services include constructing and managing landfill operations operating and maintaining material handling systems and equipment maintenance.
While these services typically have lower operating margins than our product sales they are not as seasonal and are not as impacted by declines in construction spending.
Site service revenues for the March quarter were down  $2.3 million on a year-over-year basis accounting for the entire decline in revenue for the quarter.
The decline was primarily due to the completion of the work being done to install material handling systems at Macquarie State generating station in anticipation of commercial start-up  later in the year.
Also a client where we provided site services has declared bankruptcy and idled its plans.
We anticipate that Prairie Site [ph] will begin commercial operation in the December 2011 quarter and we will begin providing long-term site services so the decline in the March quarter is temporary.
Site service revenue was 31% of our overall revenue for the quarter.
In February we announced that Headwater's planned services signed a long-term contract to manage coal ash produced at Dominion’s Virginia City Hybrid Energy Center.
We now anticipate that we will begin providing site services in the December 2011 quarter as the Virginia City plant begins commercial operation.
The plant will use coal and up to 20% biomass to produce approximately 2 million tons of coal ash annually.
Overall product revenues for the quarter were up slightly year-over-year.
However product revenues continue to be impacted by lower cement consumption in the 3 largest cement consuming regions of the United States with the largest weaknesses  coming from California Arizona and the Nevada market.
Gross profit for the March quarter was $7.6 million compared to $8.9 million for the March 2010 quarter.
The year-over-year drop in gross profit was driven by the impact of abnormal winter weather experienced and a loss of service revenue.
This weather impacted business in our higher margin product revenue markets including the Gulf Coast.
Adjusted EBITDA for the March 2011 quarter was $3.9 million compared to $5.9 million for the March 2010 quarter.
Again due to the decline in revenue and the site services client bankruptcy.
Moving to Slide 13.
Development of proposals by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency to regulate coal ash disposal continues at a slow pace.
More than 450 000 public comments on the proposals were submitted to the EPA during 2010.
A significant portion of those comments including comments from other federal agencies opposed the subtitle because the implied hazardous waste designation under that subtitle could create barriers to beneficial use.
EPA has since stated the agency needs time to consider those comments and does not anticipate proposing a final rule before 2012 at the earliest and more likely in early 2013.
The agency has also indicated that it may request additional comments on information received during the previous public comment period.
Members of Congress have expressed interest in resolving the Subtitle C controversy through legislation.
Two bills filed in the U.S.
House of Representatives during April HR 1391 and HR 1405 would allow EPA rule-making activities to continue but prohibit the use of Subtitle C in those proceedings.
HR 1391 has attracted 33 bipartisan co-sponsors and has already been the subject of a subcommittee hearing.
Moving to Slide 14.
I will now update you on our Coal Cleaning Business.
March 2011 quarter revenues were $12.1 million and were essentially flat year-over-year.
Total sales revenues would have been $2.8 million higher in the March 2011 quarter except for a change in the approach of reporting revenue beginning in the current quarter for one facility.
Headwaters has determined that it would be more appropriate to show revenue from the Pinnacle facility net of certain revenue sharing cost rather than reflecting the revenue growth and reporting the revenue sharing cost separately.
The average revenue per ton for the non-saline coal sold in the March quarter was $34 an increase of $1 per ton year-over-year.
Headwaters sold 349 000 tons of coal in the March 2011 quarter compared to 340 000 tons in the March 2010 quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA was a loss of $767 000 compared to a breakdown – a  breakeven adjusted EBITDA for the March 2010 quarter.
The primary change in adjusted EBITDA was because of a property tax adjustment.
During the March 2011 quarter Headwaters recorded asset impairments of $37 million in the Energy Technology segment as Don previously discussed.
We issued a press release on May 2 discussing the impairments.
As we have discussed before we continue to focus our sales efforts on the metallurgical coal market all of the plants that have access to reserves that meet metallurgical coal specifications.
We also continue to lower our ash content in order to improve quality and increase value.
During the quarter we idled Alabama 5 due to low production rates and began operating Alabama 7 a plant which has been idle since 2009.
Production rates at Alabama 7 continue to increase.
Work began in March on a project that should give us more flexibility and allow us to continue to increase production at Alabama 7.
That project should be completed this month.
The overburden removal project at our Pinnacle plant should now be completed by the end of the June quarter.
Completion of that project will allow us to expand our production capabilities allowing for more volume to be sold into the metallurgical coal market.
We could see increases in monthly production in June and the September quarters from that project.
We continue to work closely with our site host to increase the value of our metallurgical coal product by blending it with the coals being produced by them.
On the Steam Coal side of the business we continue to reduce our cost structure.
We are matching production to sales in order to manage inventory.
We continue to look for opportunities to introduce new utility customers to our refined coal so that we are positioned when the market for steam coal rebounds.
During the quarter we signed a sales agreement in [indiscernible] that provides us sales for our base loaded production rates there.
Section 45 tax credits continue to be a focus of our steam coal operation.
While the domestic steam coal market remains soft we anticipate that the continued acceptance of our refined coal in the thermal markets will create additional sales opportunities.
Our increased focus on the metallurgical coal market and our efforts to improve quality and blend with other high-quality metallurgical coal will continue to increase the acceptance and value of our met products.
We are committed to selling our coal cleaning assets and focusing on Light and Heavy Construction Materials.
During the quarter we have shown the facilities to multiple parties.
Some are interested in one or 2 facilities and we have had discussions with multiples parties that have expressed interest in the entire 11-plant  portfolio.
We anticipate selling the facilities  in due course and using the proceeds from the sale to pay down debt.
Now I'll turn it over to Kirk Benson.
Thanks Bill.
On Slide 17 are some highlights from our Energy segment outside of coal cleaning.
First we reported revenue flat year-over-year but after adjusting for the Seoul South Korean venture and RINS credits revenue was up 25%.
HCAT revenue increased from $0 to $4.5 million year-over-year.
We have generated revenue from 2 refineries with Neste focused on continued long-term use of HCAT.
We've all submitted 2 commercial proposals to additional refineries.
And we anticipate an increase in coal cleaning revenue and stable HCAT revenue while we get additional long-term customers.
Finally our outlook is on Slide 18.
We reaffirm our 2011 guidance for EBITDA in the range of $85 million to $100 million.
Sales appear to have stabilized but 70% to 75% of our EBITDA is in the second half of the year.
So the next 6 months will be determinative relative to achieving our guidance.
We expect benefits from our recent price increase in siding accessories and from our restructuring cost reductions.
We are looking for additional continuous improvement opportunities.
We will continue to monitor the performance of our business closely and provide guidance updates as appropriate.
So thank you very much for your participation in the call and I would now like to turn the time over to the operator for the question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of John Quealy with Canaccord Genuity.
Quickly on the EBITDA guidance.
Obviously demand is going to determine the range I guess Kirk is what you just said the next 6 months how it shakes out.
On the cost side of things can you talk about -- we've had a pretty high increase or big increase in polypropylene in the past several months.
Can you talk about what sort of costs you're covered to with the new price increase in Light Building Products? I think that the -- what we would  anticipate depending on of course what happened with polypropylene prices is that the cost increases are going to be in the range of say $3.5 million to $5.5 million depending on what happens.
And we think that our price increase should be adequate to cover that range of costs.
And then secondly on the math.
The restructuring charges I think it was about $5 million again in light duty.
Given that we're halfway in the year is that going to be $2.5 million of benefit this year from a run rate perspective or do we need to wait to get into fiscal ’12 to start seeing the OpEx benefits? Don yes share a little bit.
Okay.
Let me give you a sense as to how this would stage for the second half of this year and for 2012.
As mentioned the restructuring activities should benefit us about $5 million from an earnings standpoint and in excess of $4 million from a cash  standpoint.
For the second of this year what I would expect is that we would see about $1 million excuse me about $1.6 million largely of cash-related  benefit.
When you look at how that stages for 2012 I would expect first half 2012 to be a bit between $1.6 million $2 million of overall benefit.
And then we should be seeing the full benefit of that $5 million pace for the second half of 2012.
So $1.6 million second half of this year and reaching the $2.5 million half year pace by the second half of 2012.
Okay.
And then my last question Kirk on monetization of coal cleaning you laid out some good details for us but can you talk about your expectations? Obviously there's time value of money here and what you want to do with that capital.
Can you talk about what you're thinking in terms of when to sell those assets and at what price? Yes.
We're clearly focused on getting these assets sold.
And as we've indicated it depends a little bit upon whether you have a strategic buyer that will purchase 1 or 2 of the facilities or whether you can find someone who will purchase the entire portfolio.
We've identified a couple of prospective purchasers that are interested in the entire portfolio.
And frankly it facilitates the sale of the assets if we can conclude a single transaction rather than multiple transactions.
And so we've been a little bit biased towards a single transaction.
The result of that is that it's taking a little bit longer because we've got folks that are interested in one or 2 type facilities but it would certainly make it a lot easier if we could have a single transaction.
From a value perspective we haven't -- our book value before this current impairment was in the $80 million to $90 million range.
And I think we're still pretty comfortable that the value is in that range or higher than that range.
Of course we don't have a deal done yet and so we don't know for sure.
We do think that the impairment was basically to comply with generally accepted accounting principles and we feel real comfortable with what we've done from that perspective.
But the value of the facilities continue to be at least in the range of the net book value prior to this current impairment.
So we'll see if we can get it done.
From a timing perspective we would like to move forward as quickly as we can so that we can focus all of our efforts in the light and heavy construction material.
And our next question comes from the line of Kevin Lee with Wedbush Securities.
Just one housekeeping question.
In terms of the cash flow in the quarter could you guys provide the cash flow from ops financing and investing? Breakdown? Well one thing we're going to do is we're going to get the 10-Q filed today.
So let's just wait until that Q gets out to you because we're going to file it sometime like mid-day today.
So you'll have the Q in your hands.
Sure.
And lastly just for either Kirk or Bill obviously we've seen some municipalities award contracts to companies who expand landfill capacity for coal ash or disposal of coal ash or coal combustion products.
Should we read anything into that in terms of implications as to which way the EPA could potentially be ruling down the road when it comes to fly ash? No.
I think that the EPA is absolutely focused on a set of rules that will sustain the beneficial use of fly ash.
EPA understands that the highest and best use of this material is to get it beneficially placed.
And so I think that the direction of the EPA is going to be to support this Recycling business.
And so it's going to take them a fair amount of time to get through the 450 000 comments.
So unless there is a legislative change or unless there's a change in the administration's desire to get a rule in place earlier than say late 2012 or early 2013 it's most likely that nothing is going to happen.
So I think the direction is generally going to be to support beneficial use of fly ash.
But it's going to  be -- it's going to take some time for them to get a rule put in place.
All right.
And our next question comes from the line of Dan Mannes with Avondale Partners.
LLC</strong> A couple of follow-up questions.
First primarily on the Heavy Construction Materials can you give us an indication of how meaningful the bankruptcy was? And the reason I ask is it sounds like there’s a service contract which theoretically are lower margin.
And two my understanding is it's a fairly small plant.
So I'm kind of surprised that it's that big an impact in the total.
So can you give us a little color around that? Sure.
It had an impact on us from 2 different perspectives: one is that -- impacted revenue; and then the second impact was that we had receivable in -- on our balance sheet.
And we reserve to get that receivable because of the uncertainty arising out of bankruptcy.
So it -- of the approximately $2 million decline in adjusted EBITDA for the Heavy Construction Materials you had those 2 elements combined to make up a fairly significant portion of the decline approximately a $1 million decline in revenue and about $400 000 of write-off.
Bill why don't you -- you want to add some additional color? Yes.
I think Dan as you mentioned it is a smaller plant but the issue is it’s all the by-product  is removed by rail from that site.
Hence you got a pretty good transportation piece in there and site work off-site so  even though the plant itself is  small it is for a long time been a fairly significant site service opportunity for us.
LLC</strong> Is there a risk that given the current profitability and the bankruptcy will that reduce the profitability of this specific plant even when it restarts or do you not view that as an issue once the plant restarts? At this point we haven't looked at it.
It's such [ph] obviously for that plant to come back online we're the primary service provider for that plant to operate.
And our discussions up to this point that really hasn't been a topic of conversation Dan.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then secondly also on the service side so with the step-down  on I think you said Pleasant Prairie and the start of the Dominion Virginia later this year I guess I'm just trying to understand on the service side are any of these truly short term contracts or are they really just sort of bridges to a longer term service agreement? I'm just trying to understand if – we’re just in a little bit of a gap between the start-up  or if this is indicative of a little bit of a different business then you've been in before? Well in both of those -- starting with Prairie Sites [ph] both are greenfield plants.
So there was a lot of infrastructure at Prairie Sites [ph] that was required prior to start-up.
Obviously they wanted to make sure all that equipment was put in place long before they want to introduce fire into the boiler.
So that's what you're looking there.
So we expected this.
It's no surprise.
They're continuing to finish the plant itself.
But yes once that plant goes into commercial operation that is a long-term site services contract for us.
Not -- in  the reason -- because of the delay that you're seeing most of the material there is going to be moved from the plant site to the landfill by rail.
And hence all the  additional infrastructure that had to be placed on that site.
The Dominion once again is another greenfield opportunity for us.
Not near the site infrastructure required for us to provide site services.
That once again as we announced in the press release earlier this year is a long-term opportunity for us.
But once that comes on you won't see a gap or a break like we've experienced at Prairie Site [ph].
LLC</strong> So is it fair to say on your service agreements that the majority of them are long-term in nature? Or do you have any sort of shorter-term just construction only-type  arrangement? Most of the thing -- we are through Headwaters plant services actively taking a look at opportunities to just move in and put infrastructure in potentially build new landfills.
But most of our work is going to be of a longer term nature like you've seen in the past.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then briefly on the ash marketing side it looked like overall cement shipments in the quarter were actually up nicely year-over-year or at least through January and February particularly given it looked like the weather was a lot worse last year than this year.
I guess I was a little bit surprised we didn't see more of an uptick in your ash marketing.
Is there anything going on in your specific markets or competitively we should be aware of? No.
Not anything out of the usual Dan.
Obviously this is a slow quarter for the industry from a seasonality perspective.
And just the abundance of snow in the Northeast and the Upper Midwest obviously impacted.
And the major impact was probably down into Texas.
The snow we had as deep as Houston and the rain just impacted the numbers.
But in markets where we have 2 or 3 other competitors obviously a slide for market share is always going to take place.
But in a lot of the markets we've had opportunities to raise prices some have been significant increases.
So we continue to look for those opportunities to increase prices.
LLC</strong> Got it.
And then the last thing.
This is for Kirk on HCAT.
It looked like a pretty nice revenue increase.
Can you give us some indication of how much of that relates to the ongoing contract versus the new? And what's a reasonable run rate given the interest levels you're seeing? I mean can we sustain at this level? Can it even move higher in the near-term? Understanding in the long-term you expect a lot more out of the business.
I think in the near term as we get the -- the revenues from the Neste agreement will be stable.
And so the run rate is probably closer to a -- probably in the range of $3 million per quarter would be a reasonable run rate from the Neste contract.
It could be a little bit higher than that but that $3 million is probably a pretty good run rate estimate.
LLC</strong> $3 million? Yes.
Until the difference related to the second refinery.
The second refinery needs to go through an evaluation process  before that becomes a stable part of the revenue growth.
LLC</strong> Got it.
Our next question comes from the line of Ed McCabe with Queen Value Partners [ph].
A couple of questions.
Kirk in your opening remarks you mentioned placing the bond with bank regarding Boynton would free you up to be somewhat more aggressive in terms of cash management.
Can you be more specific about what you mean by that? One of the reasons -- I don't think we need to have $50 million on our balance sheet to manage the company.
I think we can manage the company with a lower cash balance.
Particularly if we have the availability of the ABL.
One of the reasons that we've been conservative or reluctant to buy back  more debt is because we wanted to wait until the Boynton litigation matter had reached a final judgment.
But now that it's reached final judgment one of the things that we'll be able to do is to look at our cash balance to make a determination as to whether or not we have some additional cash that we'll be able to use to pay down more debt.
We're in the process of doing that now.
Okay.
And then just a little more color on the coal cleaning asset.
Really when I looked at the press release from May 2 you talked about and you mentioned on this call you have interest in strategic buyers looking to buy onesies twosies on this.
And then you've got a couple of people looking to buy the whole portfolio.
And then in that press release and you kind of confirmed it today you talked about $100 million of value or better.
That $100 million is that something that you've estimated based on indications of interest from potential buyers? Yes.
And is that number based on aggregating the type of people who would buy them on a onesie twosie basis? Or is that the type of indication I mean just from 1 or 2 players that would buy the whole portfolio? The latter.
The latter.
So I mean if we're at a point where you have 1 or 2 who have  indicated interest around  $100 million and then I'm sure there's some conservatism built into this because these processes  have their own kind of windy paths but when you talk about 18 to 24 months being how long it could take is there something other than conservatism that would push the transaction that far out if you ended up  doing it with one of these large buyers? No.
We were just trying to – the 18 to 24 months was an attempt to be conservative.
Okay.
And then the only other thing I'd mention is I know Don bought some stock recently.
But with the stock here I assume that -- I won't ask if you're going to buy but should I assume that management believes their stock is undervalued at this point? Yes.
Okay.
And our next question comes from the line of Dan Orr  with BAM.
Quick question on the Coal Cleaning business.
Can you help me understand within your EBITDA guidance what percentage of the EBITDA would come from these assets that you're looking to sell? If you think there's --  in the press release we break down LTM EBITDA by segment.
So the information is there.
I think that the one thing that is included in our adjusted EBITDA are credits.
And there's about -- we're in the range of $5 million to $7 million of credit generation in these -- from these facilities.
And so that's included in the adjusted EBITDA and in the guidance.
Okay.
Would you sell the credits along with the assets? The way that the transactions are -- we really have 2 sets of facilities.
One set of facilities produce a metallurgical coal.
And these credits you don't generate any credit from met coal.
So the sale of the met coal facilities would be rather straightforward.
The sale of the steam coal facilities however we're looking at structures where we could retain the credit after a transaction.
And so the likelihood is that on the steam side we would maintain those credits going forward.
Okay.
And in your press release you don't break -- I see the Energy Technology segment.
Would all the EBITDA be coming from the Coal Cleaning business? Or do the other Energy businesses contribute a portion of that? There was a portion contributed to the other Energy businesses.
Could you quantify that to some extent? It's probably in the range of -- as I said there's like $5 million to $7 million in credits.
And so there's probably in the range of $1 million to $2 million that comes from the other energy activities.
So it's probably -- it's the bulk of the other $3 million actually comes from the other energy activity.
Got you.
And then with assuming that $100 million’s the base case for the sales call that a 10x to 12x multiple based on how you want to look at it.
Do potential buyers are these more  the types that own the coal assets that doesn't want to buy the assets? Are they more private equity? What type of buyer would it make sense to pay that great of a multiple for you guys? There's 2 characteristics of a buyer that are important.
One is that they've got access to waste coal feedstock.
And so if that was kind of what your question was that is exactly right.
You need to have access to waste coal.
And then the other characteristic is you've got to be able to sell the refined coal either into the net market or into the steam market.
So those are 2 characteristics that we are quite interested in and a prospective buyer would need to be able to do both of those things.
So one of the reasons that it appears -- it may appear to be a higher multiple but there's 2 things going on one is the generation of credit.
And so that's an important aspect that is in addition to a normally defined EBITDA.
Then the other aspect is that we're not running these facilities at capacity yet.
And so as we look for a buyer one of the things that will be important will be this relationship with the waste coal feedstock material.
And that feedstock material are providing us with the opportunity to increase the utilization of the facility.
The contribution margin on these facilities is probably in the 65% range.
It’s a very high contribution margin.
So as you start to increase the capacity and the throughput in these facilities it has a tremendous impact on EBITDA.
And so looking at the historical EBITDA figure you’ve got to look at it in -- with the perspective of how these facilities will be operated going forward.
Okay great.
That's perfect.
And our next question comes from the line of Dan Mannes with Avondale Partners.
LLC</strong> Just a quick follow-up on the coal cleaning sale because you actually brought up an issue I hadn't thought about.
So on the steam coal facilities if you're going to sell them to keep the tax credits are you assuming the $100 million of proceeds is just for the asset or is that also the PV of the credits? Because you're only producing I don't know $1.7 million in the quarter not to mention you currently don't have any tax appetite.
So I'm trying to understand the structure of the sale and how keeping the tax credits is net beneficial? Well one of the things that as I said the approach to the net facilities will probably be different than the approach to the steam facilities.
I think it's probably worthwhile  to clarify one issue related to the sale of these assets and that is we do not anticipate receiving $100 million in cash for the sale of these facilities.
I want to make sure that it's really clear to everybody that the cash proceeds are going to be much less than $100 million.
What makes up a lot of the value is the retention of these credits.
And so in this valuation that we're talking about retention of those credits is an important element in the valuation.
And so from a cash perspective it facilitates someone purchasing these assets because a lot of the consideration that we will receive will be in the form of credit retention.
LLC</strong> Would you actually be retaining the credits or would it  be similar to the old 29 sales where you'd be getting a cash flow  stream that's tax -- that's actually taxable rather than the credit itself? The way we're contemplating this current structure is that we would be the monetizer of these credits.
And so we would be using the credit to offset our tax liability.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Let's follow up on this offline because I guess I'm still a little confused.
Okay.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I'll now turn it back to Headwaters for closing comments.
Thank you for joining our call today.
Again we'd like to apologize for the confusion regarding our Slide deck.
We will have them uploaded to our website very shortly.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
If you’d like to listen to a replay of today's conference you can dial 1 (800) 406-7325.
For international participants you can dial 1 (303) 590-3030 and enter the access code 4438031 followed by the pound key.
And that replay will be available until May 16 2011.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to Headwaters Incorporated Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2011 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded August 2 2011.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Tricia Ross of Financial Profiles.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Headwaters Incorporated Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
There are slides accompanying today's presentation that can be found on the webcast link at Headwaters Incorporated under the Investor Relations section of Conferences and Presentations.
Please go there to follow along with the slides.
I would now like to turn the call over to Sharon Madden Vice President of Investor Relations at Headwaters.
Thank you Tricia.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us as we report Headwaters' fiscal 2011 Q3 results.
Today's call will be conducted by Kirk Benson who is Headwaters' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Don Newman who is Headwaters' Chief Financial Officer.
Also joining us will be Bill Gehrmann who is President of Headwaters Resources and Heavy Construction Materials segment; along with Dave Ulmer who is President of Tapco International.
Before we get started I'd like to remind you that certain statements made during this call including statements relating to our expected future business and financial performance may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the SEC Act of 1934.
Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are to different degrees uncertain.
These uncertainties which are described in more detail in Headwaters' annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements and could be a result of new information further events or otherwise except as what may be required by law.
You can find Headwaters' annual report on Form 10-K quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings readily available from the SEC's website from Headwaters' website or directly from the company.
I'll now turn the call over to Kirk Benson.
Kirk? Thank you Sharon.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on our quarterly conference call.
All of us on the call this morning would like to express appreciation for your interest in Headwaters.
The same for the quarter in construction materials was the April cold weather that pushed back the start of the construction season by at least 30 days.
Examining the consolidated adjusted EBITDA of our heavy and light construction units we had a negative variance compared to last year's adjusted EBITDA in the month of April of $5 million.
But by June we had a combined positive adjusted EBITDA variance which was very small but nevertheless positive.
Although there are multiple variables in the quarter impacting adjusted EBITDA most if not all of our decline in light and heavy construction materials combined adjusted EBITDA to be attributed to the slow start of the construction season.
The other notable performance issue was the lack of revenue from our coal cleaning operations.
Multiple events contributed to the overall decline including operational issues at the Cleveland Cliff's mine changing facilities at Walter's [ph] site and a shortage of feedstock at the Utah facility.
We anticipate some improvement in the fourth quarter revenue from coal cleaning.
We do not believe the decline in coal cleaning will have an impact on our efforts to sell one or all of the coal cleaning facilities.
There were no new issues with the operating model and the prospective purchases continue to do their work.
Reviewing Slide 2 we have repaid $6.9 million of our 14 3/4% convertible debt.
A portion of the purchase was in the quarter and $2.4 million was repurchased in July.
These repurchases will reduce future cash interest expense by over $1 million per year.
Our efforts last quarter to reduce cost are starting to show through lower SG&amp;A in the current quarter.
There were also savings in cost of goods sold but the savings were offset by increased materials and manufacturing costs.
But even with the increase in cost we had an improvement in June's light building products' EBITDA margins compared to last year by 180 basis points.
The lack of imminent recovery in our end markets has caused us to reexamine our manufacturing capacity and SG&amp;A support cost.
We commenced in the quarter to create a plan for 2012 that should improve our free cash flow and accelerate the repayment of debt.
We will begin implementing the plan in August and September.
After Don is finished a review of the financials Dave Ulmer President of Tapco will talk about light building products and Bill Gehrmann will talk about coal combustion products and coal cleaning.
Don? Thank you Kirk.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Before discussing Slide 3 I wanted to mention that we'll be filing our Form 10-Q later this week.
My comments will be directed to the slides that were sent out this morning and to a lesser extent the condensed consolidated balance sheet and statement of operations that were attached to the press release.
Year-to-date the revenue our revenue is $454 million a 1% decrease from the prior year revenue of $460 million.
Year-to-date adjusted EBITDA is $50 million down 21% from prior year EBITDA of $63 million.
Revenue for the third quarter was $172 million a 10% decline from $192 million in 2010.
Adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter was $28 million down from $36 million in 2010.
We'll add color regarding the year-to-date and Q3 performance as we progress through the presentations.
Our liquidity remains strong with $35 million of cash and $53 million availability under the ABL revolver at the end of the quarter.
The June quarter reflects the low point in our annual cash generation cycle.
We saw our cash balances increase roughly $15 million in July despite repaying $2.4 million of subordinated debt during the month.
Net debt to adjusted EBITDA was approximately 6.2:1 at the end of the current quarter which is higher than the ratio at the end of Q3 2010 and last quarter.
The increase from Q3 2010 reflects the senior debt refinancing the lower seasonal cash balance and decrease in LTM-adjusted EBITDA.
In the past 90 days we retired $7 million of face value 14.75% notes at a cash cost of roughly $8 million.
As you know unlike the 16% notes the 14.75% and 2.5% notes do not have a call provision.
As a result in the past quarter we negotiated the purchase of non-callable notes when approached by sellers of the notes.
The 16% notes can be called at par in June of 2012.
Our plan for reducing debt remains the same as discussed previously.
Our goal is to reduce debt through the sale of non-core assets and through free cash flows.
We continue to execute our plan to sell non-core assets including the coal cleaning portfolio which Bill will talk about.
Additionally we continue to improve our cost structures and working capital management all of which should improve free cash flow and will enable us to continue to pay down debt.
Let's move to Slide 4.
Slide 4 reflects year-to-date earnings.
Year-to-date financial results were significantly impacted by the non-routine charges in Q2.
As you recall the Q2 results included $127 million of special charges including $69 million associated with the refinancing of the senior secured notes $37 million of coal cleaning asset impairments $15 million related to the Boynton litigation and $6 million of restructuring charges.
Year to date our revenue was $454 million a 1% decline from prior year revenues of $460 million.
The $6 million decrease reflects a $3 million revenue decline for each of the heavy construction materials and light building products business lines.
Year-to-date gross profit was $91 million down 19% from $112 million in 2010.
The decrease in gross profit reflects the impact of higher raw materials and other costs higher depreciation expense restructuring activities as well as lower revenue and sales mix.
2010 also includes $5 million of gross profit from the hydrogen peroxide joint venture which was sold in late 2010.
Price increases have been instituted in light building products which should largely offset the increases in commodity prices we've experienced in fiscal 2011.
Year to date adjusted EBITDA is $50 million down 21% from $63 million in 2010 which also reflects the impact of higher raw material costs and other costs as well as lower revenues restructuring activities and sales mix.
Now let's move to Slide 5 for a closer look at the third quarter results.
Revenue for the third quarter was $172 million down 10% from $192 million in 2010.
In last quarter's earnings call we noted that April sales in our light building products segment were largely flat to March which is unusual in our business.
The spring construction season was slow to gain momentum this year due in part to inclement weather as well as a rash of tornadoes in Central U.S.
In contrast spring selling in 2010 was more vibrant due in part to the pending expiration of government home buyer incentive programs.
Although the 2011 season got off to a slow start by June sales had returned to a more normal seasonal pace with June 2011 sales exceeding June 2010 sales by roughly 4%.
Price increases implemented in Q3 added roughly $1 million of revenue or approximately 1% in the quarter.
Overall light building products revenue was down $3 million or 4% year over year.
Heavy construction materials was down $8 million year over year.
Product sales were $47 million and site services were $15 million of revenue down $3 million and $5 million respectively from 2010.
The current quarter's revenue reflects the impact of severe weather in April flooding in June as well as ample hydropower in the Northwest due to high water levels which of course negatively impacted the supply of fly ash.
Additionally 2010 included $3 million of site services revenue for the Prairie State [ph] generating station project which is anticipated to be commercial in the December 2011 quarter.
Last quarter we noted a services customer had filed for bankruptcy protection.
That plan was idled in Q3 but may be operational again in the December 2011 quarter.
Energy Technology revenue declined 9% largely due to coal cleaning.
The decline was impacted by several items: First we're shifting production from our Alabama 5 facility to our Alabama 7 facility and the operational startup was not completed in Q3.
Second we had anticipated an increase in coal sales from the Pinnacle facility but operating issues at the Cleveland Cliff's coal mine disrupted mine production and our ability to blend product with run-of-mine coal.
Also other coal cleaning plants were impacted in the quarter by lower recovery rates and a feedstock disruption at the Utah facility.
Consolidated adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter was $28 million down from $36 million in 2010.
I'll draw your attention to the bridge in the lower right corner of Slide 5.
The bridge highlights some key drivers in the year-over-year decrease in EBITDA.
Declines in corporate SG&amp;A compensation and professional services spend favorably impacted EBITDA roughly $3 million year-over-year.
EBITDA for the light building products was negatively impacted roughly $1 million due to revenue declines and was negatively impacted roughly $2 million due to increases in material and other cost.
Decreases in Heavy Construction Material revenue negatively impacted EBITDA $5 million and decreases in energy revenue largely due to coal cleaning negatively impacted EBITDA $3 million.
Additionally 2010 energy segment results included roughly $2 million of nonrecurring favorable items.
Dave and Bill will talk more about these dynamics in their presentations and starting on Slide 6 Dave will cover light building products.
Thanks Don.
Good morning everybody.
As you can see on Slide 6 revenues from our light building products segment in the June 2011 quarter were $91.6 million a decrease of $3.5 million or 4% compared to the June 2010 quarter.
Revenue in the quarter started out slow in comparison to the prior year.
I will discuss the revenue trend within the quarter on the next slide.
Revenue from our regional block and brick business was up 6% from the June 2010 quarter while revenue from our national business was down 6%.
The decrease in our national business which is made up of our stone veneer and siding accessory product lines was down from the prior year primarily as a result of severe weather conditions in April 2011 and continued softness in the new construction and remodeling markets.
Per the Census Bureau the unadjusted total housing starts for the 3 months ended June 2011 were down 4% from the 3 months ended June 2010.
Comparisons for 2011 through the June quarter have been difficult because of the 2010 government home buyer incentive programs.
Year-to-date light building products revenue of $224 million was below June 2010 year-to-date revenue by approximately $3.5 million the entire difference coming in the June quarter and specifically in the month of April.
Quarterly revenue in our regional concrete block category increased by $1.1 million year over year.
This was the third consecutive quarterly increase for this product category pointing to a stabilization of the Texas market.
We are excited about our opportunities in the concrete block category as the Texas market returns to a cycle of growth.
New business recently developed with the big box companies and our new retail location for the sale of brick and stone veneer.
In addition our vinyl siding tool category which is heavily dependent upon remodeling was up 3% year-over-year.
Historically remodeling has led the housing industry out of many of its past down cycles and it is expected that remodeling once again will play that role.
Gross profit margins for the quarter in the light building products grew -- decreased from 31% in 2010 to 28% in the June 2011 quarter due to higher material production and freight cost.
Cost on our primary resin material increased roughly 15% year over year.
Most of our other resin materials have also experienced similar cost pressures over the prior 12 months.
We have been successful in mitigating some of the upward pressures through sourcing new suppliers improving manufacturing processes and instituting targeted price increases.
We will continue to pursue cost reductions in all of our raw inputs through improved sourcing and alternative materials.
Higher material production freight and other cost have had the combined effect of reducing our adjusted EBITDA by $2.5 million to $16.6 million in the June 2011 quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA showed improvement in each successive month of the quarter.
The June 2011 year-to-date adjusted EBITDA of $25.2 million decreased $10.5 million from the June 2010 year-to-date results primarily for the same reasons as previously noted.
During the second quarter we announced a price increase to all of our siding accessory customers which took effect in the early part of the quarter ended June 2011.
As a result of continued cost pressures from our raw materials specifically resins we announced a second price increase in the June 2011 quarter which will be effective in the quarter ending September 2011.
On Slide 7 you can see that our April revenue was severely impacted compared to 2010 due to the inclement April weather.
However revenue increased relative to last year in May and June.
April's year-over-year revenue was down 13% May's revenue was down 2% but June's revenue was up 4% year-over-year.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter followed a very similar pattern.
April adjusted EBITDA was 46% below last year May was 4% lower but June's adjusted EBITDA was 14% higher than last year.
Now turning to Slide 8 you can see each quarter comparing 2011 to the prior year.
We are clearly trailing last year in revenue and adjusted EBITDA but our price increases and cost control measures should have a positive impact in future quarters.
Now I'll turn the presentation over to Bill.
Thanks Dave and good morning everyone.
Starting on Slide 9 revenue for the June 2011 quarter in our coal combustion products business was $62.4 million compared to $70.3 million for the June 2010 quarter.
Headwaters' client services provides site services to many of its utility clients.
These services include constructing and managing landfill operations operating and maintaining material handling systems and equipment maintenance.
While these services typically have lower operating margins than our product sales they are not as seasonal and are as not as impacted by declines in construction spending.
Site services revenue for the June quarter were down $4.6 million on a year-over-year basis.
The decline was primarily due to the completion earlier in the year of work being done to install the material handling systems at Prairie State [ph] generating station in anticipation of commercial startup later in the year.
We anticipate that Prairie State [ph] will begin commercial operation in the December 2011 quarter and we will begin providing long-term site services so the decline in the June quarter is temporary.
Also as mentioned by Don a client where we provide site services declared bankruptcy has idled the plan.
Site services revenue was 24% of our overall revenue for the quarter.
Overall product revenues for the quarter were down 6% year over year.
Flooding in the Midwest impacted our ability to transport fly ash to the market and our supply of quality fly ash was negatively impacted by hydropower in the Northwest and utility maintenance issues in the Northeast.
Product revenues also continue to be impacted by lower cement consumption in the 3 largest cement consuming regions of the United States with the largest weakness coming from the California Arizona and Nevada markets.
We are beginning to see signs that we may be nearing the bottom of the fly ash market in California and are cautiously optimistic that we may begin to see some market stabilization as we move into 2012.
Gross profit for the June quarter was $15.2 million compared to $19.1 million for the June 2010 quarter.
The year-over-year drop in gross profit was driven by the impact of the abnormal weather short-term disruptions as I have explained and the loss of service revenue.
Adjusted EBITDA for the June 2011 quarter was $11.3 million compared to $15.7 million for the June 2010 quarter again due to the decline in revenue related to flooding and the short-term disruptions and the site services client bankruptcy.
On Slide 10 you can see the quarterly comparisons of revenue and adjusted EBITDA.
As I have said the comparisons have been impacted by events at specific sites such as the completion of work at Prairie State [ph] and the softness in end markets in the Western United States.
Moving to Slide 11 development of proposals by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency to regulate coal ash disposal continues at a slow pace.
More than 450 000 public comments on the proposals were submitted to the EPA during 2010.
The significant portion of those comments including comments from other federal agencies oppose the Subtitle C approach because of the implied hazardous-waste designation under that subtitle could create barriers to beneficial use.
The EPA has since stated that the agency needs time to consider those comments and does not anticipate proposing a final rule before 2012 at the earliest and more likely in early 2013.
The agency has also indicated that it may request additional comments on information received during the previous public comment period.
The House Energy and Commerce Committee approved legislation HR 2273 on a bipartisan basis to regulate coal combustion products.
HR 2273 calls for national standards for the management of coal ash and creates a primary role for states to manage the disposal of coal ash with supervision from the EPA.
It is anticipated that HR 2273 will be presented to the full House after the August recess although the exact timing is unknown.
Moving to Slide 12 I will now update you on our coal cleaning business.
June 2011 quarter revenues were $9.9 million compared to $18.3 million for the June 2010 quarter.
The drop in revenues was primarily the result of the decrease in tons sold.
Headwaters sold 271 000 tons of coal in the June 2011 quarter compared to 487 000 tons in the June 2010 quarter.
207 000 tons of the variance came from steam coal sales.
The drop in steam coal sales was primarily due to reduced supply for the quarter at our Wellington plant and weather-related production issues due to tornadoes in Alabama and excessive rainfall at other sites.
The average revenue per ton for the non-tolling [ph] coal sold in the June quarter was $36 per ton an increase of $1 per ton year-over-year.
Adjusted EBITDA was a loss of $2.2 million.
As we have discussed before we continue to focus our sales efforts on the metallurgical coal market at all of the plants that have access to reserves that meet metallurgical coal specifications.
We also continue to lower our ash content in order to improve quality and increase value.
During the quarter a project involving the impoundment at Alabama 7 was completed giving us more flexibility and allowing us to increase production.
As we discussed on our last call we have idled Alabama 5 and have started operating Alabama 7.
Our production increased 25% from April to June at Alabama 7 and we expect to see a continued increase.
During the June 2011 quarter we filled remaining orders in Alabama on some older priced contracts and we'll now be in a position to fill new higher-priced contracts.
We continue to work closely with our site host to increase the value of our metallurgical coal product by blending it with the coals being produced by them.
The completion of the overburden removal project in our Pinnacle plant has been slowed due to some engineering changes that have been made on that project and we now anticipate completion of that project near the end of the fiscal year.
Our site host at Pinnacle is dealing with a problem at their mine that has limited the ability to blend our coal with their metallurgical coal.
We are currently marketing our Pinnacle coal into other opportunities and sales remain firm with higher year-over-year pricing.
On the steam coal side of the business we continue to reduce our cost structure.
We are matching production to sales in order to manage inventory.
We continue to look for opportunities to introduce new utility customers to our refined coal so that we are positioned when the market for steam coal rebounds.
During the quarter we were able to amend a supply agreement at Chinook that will increase the price in tons sold.
We also expect to see an increase in the feedstock for the Wellington plant.
Section 45 tax credits continue to be a focus of our steam coal operations.
While the domestic steam coal market remains soft we anticipate that the continued acceptance of our refined coal in the thermal markets will create additional sales opportunities.
We remain committed to selling our coal cleaning assets and focusing on light and Heavy construction materials.
During the quarter we have shown the facilities to multiple parties some interested in 1 or 2 facilities and we've had discussions with multiple parties that expressed interest in the entire 11-plant portfolio.
We anticipate selling the facilities in due course and using the proceeds from the sale to reduce debt.
You can see the quarterly comparison of revenue and adjusted EBITDA on Slide 13.
We do expect some improvements in the fourth calendar quarter in our coal cleaning business.
Now Kirk will discuss the overall energy segment beginning on Slide 14.
Thank you Bill.
The decline in revenue in the energy segment is mostly attributable to coal cleaning as Bill has discussed although we did sell our South Korean hydrogen peroxide plant and the RINS ethanol credits expired.
Our HCAT revenue increased enough to make up most of the loss in revenue from sale of the South Korean plant and the loss of the RINS credit.
The decline in EBITDA is attributable to coal cleaning sale of the South Korean plant and the expiration of the RINS credit.
The revenue from South Korea and RINS credit were nearly 100% margin EBITDA so the loss of revenue also impacted EBITDA in the amount almost equal to the revenue decline.
Coal sales represent high-margin EBITDA because of its high fixed cost structure and a corresponding high contribution margin.
Some of the loss in EBITDA was made up by the increase in HCAT sales.
HCAT sales grew from $3 million in June 2010 quarter to $5 million in the June 2011 quarter.
We are in the process of seeking additional refining customers and currently have proposals outstanding to 2 different refineries.
A number of other refineries are interested.
However looking forward we don't anticipate large revenue increases in 2012 due to the time needed to negotiate agreements and put in the -- put in place the technology for the -- to run the -- to put in place the equipment to run the technology.
Slide 15 summarizes the revenue and equity by quarter for the energy segment.
We expect HCAT revenue to be lower in the fourth quarter but improvement from coal cleaning and so there should be some overall improvement in the energy segment in revenue in the fourth quarter.
In summary on Slide 16 we again affirm our adjusted EBITDA guidance at the low end of the range.
We should have some benefits from our light building products price increases and reduction in costs that we have already put in place.
Restructuring efforts will continue in the fourth quarter as we prepare for 2012 adjusted EBITDA improvements.
We have reduced debt by almost $7 million improving our free cash flow by approximately $1 million.
We set aside cash to repay the $9 million of 16% debt in the June quarter of next year reducing cash interest expense by $1.5 million.
We'll continue to focus on the repayment of debt.
So I'd now like to turn the time back to the operator for the question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of John Quealy with Cannacord.
Relative visibility per the adjusted EBITDA guidance did the weather cause some push outs that give you a little more comfort on Q4? Or is there something in the OpEx that helps increase visibility there? I think there's a little bit of both going on.
Before we got into the significant down cycle what typically would happen is if you had a slow spring you actually picked that up towards the end of the year in the September quarter and October.
So I think we're expecting a little bit of that.
But we're also focused on the cost structure.
And as I indicated we're going to be implementing some additional restructuring activities in the quarter that should lead to some improvement from -- in at least in September as we implement some of these cost-improvement activities in August.
And just maybe if you could give us a little more detail on restructuring just sort of amounts and when we should expect the improvements to flow through.
I think in the 9/30 quarter we'll have some of the improvements from what we did in the March quarter.
We estimate about $800 000 or so of improvement in the September quarter from those March activities.
The activities that we're going to be engaged and implementing in August should have some improvement in September.
It's probably in the range of $200 000 to $500 000.
The bulk of those improvements will flow through into 2012 and we anticipate the improvements in 2012 will end up being material to our performance in 2012.
We'll of course give you more input on those restructuring activities when we report the 9/30 quarter and when we get those activities implemented then we'll have greater insight and more detail as to what those improvements could be in 2012.
Great that's fair.
And just lastly on the fly ash side maybe you could touch on volumes with weather and the hydropower issues.
Would you say volumes have dropped here? How should we think about that looking forward? I think one of the issues like in the Northwest was that there was a lot of snowfall.
And that caused the reservoirs to be full and a lot of hydropower.
When you have hydropower it's less expensive than the marginal cost of coal-fired power.
And so what happens is you end up with a shift to hydro and away from coal.
And so that had an impact on us in the Northwest.
Bill do you would to add a little bit of color to that question? Sure.
In regards to the hydropower John as Kirk explained snow created that situation.
It's one of our larger supplies in the Northwest.
Those units are now coming up as of last week so we should see that supply back into the marketplace.
We continue to have some mechanical issues in the Northeast.
It's a utility there and we're making arrangements to try to rail material from farther west of that into that marketplace so -- and we've started to work around some of the flood-related problems in the Midwest through other railroads rerouting and also moving some material by trucks to try to continue to supply those markets where we've had some issues based on transportation.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Lee with Wedbush Securities.
Just had a question regarding the pricing environment.
Obviously I think coming out of Q1 you guys had already indicated that you guys were going to raise prices specifically in LB the light building products segment.
But just given the end-market challenges I mean how are these pricing increases -- or how have they been received? Are you seeing any pressures from the respective end markets? Are you seeing any pushback? Any commentary around that would be appreciated.
One of the things that has been very helpful -- there are 2 things that are helpful to us relative to raising prices and that is in many of our niche markets we have a very strong market share.
And so any time that you've got strong market share that gives you a little bit of an edge as far as pricing is concerned.
The second thing that's been very helpful is that other manufacturers and providers of building products have been raising prices.
And so we haven't been alone in our efforts to raise prices at all.
And so what we found is that our price increases have been favorably received in the marketplace.
And as I said we haven't been alone in those price increases.
Dave why don't you add some color to that answer? Yes I think that's right and I think we really have had very little pushback.
We've presented them with market data that supported what we were doing and as Kirk said our peers who carry like products were going up and were having similar increases and we have implemented both of our increases and had very little pushback from the market on either getting them in place or even suggesting rescinding in any way at all.
I guess my second question I've seen the press release.
You guys had indicated that the concrete business mainly in Texas was seeing some notable strength.
But if you could comment specifically more on just the rest of the U.S.
or other parts of U.S.
where you guys are seeing some strength.
Are you guys seeing any notable pickups in construction activity in other states or other regions? I think one of the things that -- we are seeing some improvement in Texas market.
So I don't know if it goes as far as -- it's not something that -- and we were up by 6%.
So we're not up like 15% or 20% but we are seeing some improvement in that regional market.
One of the things that's been interesting to me is that several of our product groupings are oriented towards remodeling.
And we did see some improvement in our tool product which is 100% remodeling.
But the other thing that -- for a long time we haven't seen any real improvement in some of our shutters mounting blocks and gable vents that we know are specifically oriented to the remodeling market.
And that's where we've actually started to see a little bit of year-over-year improvement.
And so that's -- it isn't -- a lot of that of course is in the Midwest Northeast.
But it's -- I think that has been one change that is positive and something that we haven't seen for a long time.
Dave want to add to that? Well just tools -- when Kirk mentions our tool business growing had good year-over-year growth that is really for us a very positive indicator of -- when contractors buy tools they're not reselling them to a homeowner.
They're using them.
So they're investing in their business.
So that's been a strong indicator.
A little bit of an upsurge in the shutter vent block market and also our foundry siding product has shown some fair increases year-over-year than other products.
So we've started to see some of the specialty markets move and that's been -- for us we've seen it in the Midwest Northeast and Southeast is where most of those products are purchased.
Okay.
And lastly just one housekeeping issue.
Could you guys provide the numbers for the cash flow for ops investing and the financing for the quarter? In the 10-Q.
Yes that was not attached to the press release but you'll see it in the Q that we'll file later this week.
Our next question comes from the line of Philip Volpicelli with Deutsche Bank.
Would you be willing to give us some I guess ranges or quantify the price increases that you put through in May and have scheduled for July 1? I think that what we -- what Don has indicated is that we have about $1 million of incremental revenue for the price increase through the June quarter.
And the price increase for the July would be -- is comparable to the June price increase.
Now the June price increase was only in place I think for 2 of the 3 months so it should be a little bit higher.
But you basically double down on that price increase for the September quarter.
And if you achieve both that will offset the 15% increase in resin cost.
It will come very close to offsetting that.
And then with regard to the sale of the coal cleaning assets can you give us an update? Last time I think you were in discussions with multiple parties.
Can you just update us as to where you are? I think what's happening is that we're -- the parties are -- they're coming to the end of the due diligence process.
And so they've identified some of the remaining diligence and Bill is setting up meetings with some of the site hosts.
So that's basically done at the end of the diligence process when you're actually getting access to the site hosts.
It's comparable in a different kind of transaction where you're introducing a prospective purchase or 2 to your customer base.
And that's a similar kind of activity that's now starting to take place.
Kirk would you say that you still expect to close this by the end of the year? Or is it a fiscal 2012 event? It depends of course on how quickly things get negotiated.
I think we clearly have the diligence done but we still have -- it's difficult to predict because of the negotiating the final document and we only have 2 months left before the end of this fiscal year.
So it could slide over into the 12/31 quarter.
Yes okay.
And then on the fly ash part of the business it doesn't make sense that with fly ash being so much cheaper than cement that you're seeing a gain in share there.
or are there just structural impediments in terms of different DOT requirements for a certain amount of cement versus fly ash in their concrete? We have -- in our shareholder presentation I think on our website there is a slide.
About halfway through the presentation there's a little graph that shows the penetration of fly ash into the concrete market.
And one of the things that is very positive about -- there's not many things positive about a recession but one of the things that is positive about the recession is the ready mix guys basically increased the substitution rates because fly ash as you said is less expensive than Portland cement.
So you'll see on that graph that the slope of the increase in penetration have increased since 2007.
And so that rate is increasing and we're up now to about 17% is the substitution rate.
So it's moving in the right direction.
Does that allow you to raise prices on fly ash? Or is it still very competitive or too competitive? The -- that of course is more of a regional kind of a question and even sometimes a local question and so it really depends upon the supply and demand in the -- in a fairly local or regional area.
Bill why don't you comment on our pricing with fly ash? Yes.
Kirk I think you were exactly spot on.
It's a local issue and it's going to be dependent on the quality of ash quality of one supply versus the other and the amount of supply and the logistics.
So it is something that we just look at marketplace by marketplace.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Mannes with Avondale Partners.
LLC</strong> A couple of quick follow-up questions.
First on the restructuring activities you've kind of gone down this road a couple of times before.
Obviously you've taken a lot of cost out of the system.
I guess this is a 2-part question.
One is how much cost is really left to pull out given all that you've done already? And two is this -- are you may be taking a deeper review and maybe thinking about rationalizing your business mix even a little bit more beyond just potentially divesting of coal cleaning? On the second part first is we're not looking at any divestitures outside of the energy segment.
And so we are very comfortable with our light and heavy construction materials portfolio.
As far as the first question goes relative to our cost structures there is no question but it becomes more difficult to take cost out of the business.
But I think that we are -- we're basically -- we continue to get better at managing our business.
And so what we've done is we've looked at areas looked at cost of goods sold and in SG&amp;A and what's happened as our business has -- as the revenue has declined -- and the revenue decline started in 2006 so we've been into this down cycle and then kind of flat for 5 years.
And what happened is we've had a significant reduction and we haven't reduced some of our cost structures proportionately with the decline in revenue.
Most folks predicted of course that there would be an up cycle.
In fact the predictions were that you would have an up cycle in 2010 then people predicted 2011.
And so you want to be very careful that you don't put your business in a position where you can't benefit from that up cycle.
We've been very cognizant of that but it's also a fair statement that we still have some adjustments that we can make to size our business relative to our revenue.
And so we've been taking a very close look at manufacturing footprint at the -- at our SG&amp;A and also looking at the -- our processes of getting products to the market.
And we adopted lean approaches a few years ago but what often happens when companies adopt lean is you end up -- you come -- you get some improvements and then you hit a wall.
Well we kind of hit that wall in 2010 and now we've taken another look at some of these process improvements.
So what you -- so there's 2 major areas in the restructuring -- 3: one is making sure that we're rightsized; two is making sure that our manufacturing footprint is appropriate; and third look for other places process improvements and further movement of lean processes into our systems.
LLC</strong> Okay.
To go back to your answer to I guess the second question which you answered first.
In terms of the energy segment you implied that perhaps any of that could be divested given the long time frame on getting HCAT installed.
Any new thoughts on potentially divesting or finding some way to monetize that business.
Yes I think what's going to happen in HCAT is that we now have a successful application of HCAT at Neste.
We've got a second refinery that is using HCAT on a fairly consistent basis.
We've got proposals out to 2 additional refineries and we have interest from another half-dozen refineries.
Now the timing that -- when you take in terms [ph] the timing even if someone said today they wanted a negotiate an agreement with us you've got several months of negotiating as far as the agreements are concerned.
And then you've got about 6 to 9 months of putting the equipment in place.
And so I don't think you're going to see a significant change in revenue in 2012.
But what will happen is of course successfully getting several of these contracts signed over the next 15 months.
Then when you talk about trying to monetize that asset you're talking a significantly different scenario.
And so our view is that the time to look at monetizing the HCAT asset is towards the end -- probably the end of calendar 2012.
LLC</strong> So hopefully -- and by that point hopefully you'll have already divested of coal cleaning.
Yes absolutely.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Real quick on what I'll call implied Q4 guidance your low end of the range at $85 million puts you at $35 million for the fourth quarter so up about $7 million from what you did in the third.
How much of that is improvement in light versus heavy? And how much of that is improvement in coal prices on the energy segment? I don't know how we should sort of -- oh and how much of it is better cost? I'm not sure how to think through where the improvement's coming from.
Well I wanted to say one of the easiest -- one easy way to look at that is we dropped $5 million of EBITDA in April because of the slow start to the construction season.
So you need to pick up $7 million and there's $5 million.
Now there's of course a lot of factors going on in the quarter that make a difference.
Generally what happens is the light building products has a -- the light building products peaks in the June 30 quarter typically.
And the heavy construction materials peaks in the September quarter typically.
But if you -- and so you've got a little bit -- there's a little bit of seasonality difference between the 2 areas.
In order to hit that pickup of $7 million of EBITDA we need to not have another April type month because we did drop -- we dropped about $5 million in April.
So that's one of the things that's important to hit that number.
The -- I think a second thing is that the fly ash business needs to have its typical peak in the September quarter.
And the final thing is we can't have another coal cleaning quarter like we had in June.
I think the April pickup of about $5 million and the -- an improvement in coal cleaning is probably -- is important to hit that $7 million.
And of course operationally you'll have a full quarter for both price increases will be in place and you'll also have some additional cost savings activities towards the end of the quarter.
LLC</strong> I guess on the other hand in the Q3 weren't -- were some of the cost savings related to whether reversal bonus accrual or anything like that that might not carry forward into 4? Or am I misreading that? No I think that's correct.
And so that goes the other way.
So I think you're absolutely right.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then the last thing just on coal cleaning.
I listened to Bill's comments both on the old contracts at Walter [ph] rolling off and then secondly maybe some newer contracts at Chinook.
I know you're talking about a soft coal market but those met and steam coal prices are substantially above the $36 you're selling at.
I'm just wondering are we getting anywhere closer to a time frame when we start seeing you realize better pricing which hopefully smoothes the eventual sale of the business? I mean is that's going to be next quarter? Or is it just going to be a marginal step-up? My response is you'll see a marginal step-up.
But Bill correct me if that's not correct.
Yes I think it'll be a marginal step-up.
One of the things also Dan when we talk in regards to Pinnacle with the issues that they're having there it basically force us to build a little inventory too.
So we've got some inventory upside as we've developed some other sales opportunities.
But on the met side we've been through the calculation in regards to how we get from our pricing and how we report it now the seaborne pricing and we're booking revenues a little differently especially at Pinnacle as we explained on the last call.
So we do have some upside in pricing and we are gaining on that as we speak.
Our next question comes from the line of Seth Yeager with Jefferies and Company.
Just a couple of quick follow-ups.
For the vinyl siding you had mentioned it was up about 3% year-on-year and I apologize if you mentioned this.
How much of that was volume versus the pricing just on a percentage basis? So I think that this -- the pricing is really -- as Don indicated the pricing had impact about $1 million in the quarter.
So that would also be true year-over-year.
That's because that would be the pricing increase.
So the other changes would be volume-related.
Dave do you want to add some color to that answer? Well I think most of it in June maybe a little bit more in June was -- most of it was price increase.
There was a little bit of volume increase in June.
For July most of the increase was pricing.
So out of the 2 months you had a little bit that was volume increase most of it being pricing.
Okay and that's sort of stays at -- sorry go ahead.
No I just said for the year.
Go ahead.
Oh okay.
And then so just sequentially through the quarter it sort of stepped up just marginally each month from a volume standpoint? Basically yes.
Okay.
And then just looking at your guidance taking the low end less cash interest and CapEx just back of the envelope gets me to roughly free cash flow neutral.
So just given your comments around de-levering from free cash flow does that imply that you anticipate generating cash through the back half through working capital? And what sort of magnitude do you anticipate for the full year? Q4 is typically our -- kind of our strongest cash-generation quarter.
So thinking back to last year I think the Q4 cash generation was -- and you could do the math too if you go back and look at the results from last year but I believe it was north of $40 million in terms of cash generation in the quarter.
We would expect that we would see some working capital takeout during the quarter.
I mean we do in Q3 build accounts receivable start to collect those accounts receivable into Q4.
In terms of just ongoing free cash flow generation from a base case standpoint what you would expect at an EBITDA level of what we're talking about with our guidance you would expect working capital movements aside a free cash flow in the $15 million to $20 million range if you will for this business.
Okay and then just a follow-up from that.
Are you guys -- are there any restrictions on repurchasing your newly issued senior secured notes at a discount in the open market? So there -- we do have the ability to buy back some of that debt.
It depends upon -- if the proceeds are from an equity offering we can buy back at 107 I believe.
We also have the option to buy up to 10% per year at 103.
But clearly our focus at the present time would be toward our subordinated debt.
We have the ability to -- under our ABL as well as under the senior financing to pay our sub debt that's outstanding.
That sub debt will be maturing in 2014 for the 14 3/4% and 2 1/2% and as I think I mentioned we can call our 16% in mid-calendar 2012 at par.
So that would clearly be the area of focus for us from a debt management standpoint.
Our final question comes from the line of Brian Dale [ph] with Bleacher &amp; Company [ph].
Just a couple of quick follow-ups on the fly ash side of the business.
During your commentary on the supply constraints given the hydro generation if it had been a normal year would there have been demand for that supply of fly ash? And if you actually had access to it and I guess asked another way are you seeing now -- was there a backlog building? And are you seeing some of that start to alleviate now and kind of flowing into the fourth quarter? Bill why don't you just -- why don't you take that one? Yes typically in regards to the hydropower offset there that's a high-quality supply for us.
So yes we feel that we would have sold most of that into the marketplace.
Is there a backlog now? It sounds from your comments that the hydro is starting to slow down a little bit.
So if you're getting more access to that will we see some of that volume pick up in the fourth quarter? Yes that volume will pick up.
We anticipate selling everything that that plant can produce into the marketplace.
So we would expect it to track like a normal Q4.
In regards to a backlog from a supply issue typically if we can't supply fly ash either they're going to look for another supply or going to produce straight sack cement ready-mix concrete.
So unless it's a backlog related to weather that sets the final delivery of ready-mix concrete back we would lose some of those but -- so we did lose sales when we didn't have supply available and couldn't make up for it from other locations.
But there's enough demand out there right now for this specific supply where we anticipate selling it all.
Got you.
And one other -- one final one.
Given -- as we progress I guess some of the new EPA rules for a lot of the coal units Casper [ph] being handed out now and including Texas there do you foresee any issues on any of the plants that you receive fly ash from being shut down or that supply going away? I think that we're generally comfortable with the high fly ash -- high-quality -- the facilities that produce a high-quality fly ash.
They're not going to be negatively impacted.
So I think we're just going to be fine from a supply perspective.
Thank you.
At this time I would like to turn the conference back to management for closing remarks.
Thank you.
With that last question we'll go ahead and end the call and we'd like to thank you all for joining us today.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
If you would like to listen to a replay of today's conference please dial 1 (800) 406-7325 or (303) 590-3030 and enter the access code of 4461048 followed by the pound sign.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Headwaters Incorporated Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year End 2011 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded today Tuesday November 1 2011.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Tricia Ross of Financial Profiles.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Headwaters Incorporated Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year End 2011 Conference Call.
There are slides accompanying today's presentation that can be found on the webcast link at the Headwaters Incorporated website in the Investor Relations section under the Events Conferences and Presentations.
Please go there to follow along with the slides.
Should you have any issue please feel free to email me at tross@finprofiles.com.
I would now like to turn the call over to Sharon Madden Vice President of Investor Relations at Headwaters.
Thank you Tricia.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us as we report our fourth quarter and fiscal 2011 year end results.
Today's call will be conducted by Kirk Benson Headwaters' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; along with Don Newman Headwaters' Chief Financial Officer.
Also joining the call will be Bill Gehrmann who is President of Headwaters Resources; and Dave Ulmer who is President of Tapco International.
Both will be reporting under individual business segments.
As always before we get started I need to remind you about the forward-looking language in our press release and in our slides that certain statements made during the call including statements related to our expected future business and financial performance may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 both as amended.
Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are to different degrees uncertain.
These uncertainties which are described in more detail in the annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise except as may be required by law.
You may find Headwaters' annual report on Form 10-K quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings readily available from the SEC's website Headwaters' website or directly from the company.
I would now like to turn the call over to Kirk Benson.
Kirk? Thank you Sharon.
Thank you for your attendance with Headwaters' year end conference call.
I'd like to begin by making some overall comments on our year from Slide 2.
Don Newman will then comment on the financials followed by Dave Ulmer discussing Light Building Products and Bill Gehrmann discussing our Heavy Construction Materials segment.
ThKere were 3 themes that dominated 2011: First our end markets continued to be soft at the bottom of the construction cycle and we have not seen long-term trends that would consistently signal growth; second we experienced increased costs particularly in the December and March quarters and those increases have carried over into the second half of the year.
Fortunately we were able to implement a price increase to our Light Building Product segment that helped alleviate a portion of the cost increase; and third we have restructured many parts of our business reduced our cost structure such that on flat revenue we expect 2012 margins to improve over 2011.
We expect significant improvements in free cash flow in 2012.
We experienced some notable achievements during the year.
The senior debt refinancing in the second quarter greatly reduced our financial risk extended debt maturities increasing interest coverage and free cash flow.
During the year we repaid $24.4 million of high-rate convertible debt reducing our total high coupon debt by more than half.
Our adjusted EBITDA to run rate interest coverage ratio is now 2.2 indicating that we have sufficient cash cushion and minimal financial risk that could adapt if there are any additional disruptions in our end markets.
We have gone through 2 restructuring efforts in 2011 in the second and fourth quarters.
We believe that as a result of lower interest expense and improved operations our free cash flow in 2012 should be in the range of $20 million to $30 million allowing us to continue to repay our subordinated debt prior to maturity.
We had exposure of approximately $20 million in the Internal Revenue Service audits and the audits were successfully concluded during the year.
Our cash interest expense peaked at an annualized level of $47.9 million and is now $37.7 million representing an improvement of $10.2 million.
Although the sale of non-core assets has taken an extended period of time the difficulty in selling unique assets was anticipated.
We previously indicated that it would require an extensive effort to sell the assets.
Nevertheless we continue to make progress and anticipate that the assets will be sold in 2012.
As a result of our conviction that the assets will be sold and that we abandoned the concept of retaining tax credits we were able to adopt discontinued operations accounting treatments to better focus the business on our continuing operations.
Looking forward to 2012 we have projected our performance assuming stable revenue and costs.
With those assumptions in mind we project a range of 2012 adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations to be between $85 million and $95 million a 3% to a 16% improvement over 2011.
The midpoint of the range is a 10% improvement in adjusted EBITDA year-over-year.
The improvements are not dependent upon an increase in revenue but rather margin improvements primarily related to our restructuring efforts.
We anticipate a 50% increase in 2011 normalized free cash flow and feel very comfortable with our strategy to pay down subordinated debt.
The improvements that we have made are encouraging even in the face of soft end markets.
We continue to have a high degree of operating leverage.
Our projected contribution margin in 2012 is in the range of 45% so that a recovery in our end markets and an increase in revenue will have an exaggerated positive impact on operating income net income and adjusted EBITDA.
So now let's turn the time over to Don to discuss the quarter and year end financial statements.
Don? Thank you Kirk.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Before discussing Slide 3 I wanted to mention that we intend to file our Form 10-K later in November.
My comments today will be directed to the slides that were sent out this morning and to a lesser extent the condensed consolidated balance sheets and statement of operations that were attached to the press release.
Before getting too far into the financial results I want to note that the coal cleaning business has been classified as a discontinued operation in our financial statements starting this quarter.
As you know Headwaters has been actively marketing the coal cleaning assets.
In late September it was determined by management and the Board of Directors that the coal cleaning business met the qualifications for discontinued operations accounting treatment including the likelihood of the sale would be completed within one year and that Headwaters would not have significant continuing involvement in the operation after the sale.
As a result and as required by the accounting rules operating results for the coal cleaning business in the current quarter as well as for the prior periods going back to 2009 have been consolidated into a single line on the income statement entitled Loss from Discontinued Operation Net of Income Taxes.
You'll also note that in our September 30 balance sheet coal cleaning assets and liabilities are grouped together into line items labeled as Held for Sale.
In today's presentation you will hear reference to financial results from continuing operations which refers to the business activities excluding the coal cleaning operation.
Bill will also provide a brief update on the coal cleaning business.
Year-to-date our revenue from continuing operations is $592 million a 1% decrease from prior year revenue from continuing operations of $598 million.
Year-to-date adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations is $82 million down 13% from prior year adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations of $94 million.
Revenue from continuing operations for the fourth quarter was $178 million which is slightly above the revenue from continuing operations for the same period in 2010.
And adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations for the fourth quarter was $32 million up $31 million from 2010.
We will add color regarding the year-to-date and Q4 performance as we progress through the presentations.
Our liquidity remains strong with $51 million of cash and $53 million availability under the ABL Revolver at the end of the quarter.
Net debt-to-adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was approximately 5.9:1 at the end of the quarter which is higher than the ratio at the end of Q4 2010 but below last quarter.
The increase from Q4 2010 reflects the senior debt refinancing lower cash balances and a decrease in LTM adjusted EBITDA.
During Q4 we retired $10 million of face value of 14.75% notes at a cash cost of $11 million.
As you know unlike the 16% notes the 14.75% and 2.5% notes do not have a call provision.
As a result in the past quarter we negotiated the purchase of the 14.75% notes when approached by a seller of the notes.
The 16% notes can be called at par in June of 2012.
As a result of the debt repayments and the senior debt refinancing in 2011 we have reduced our annual cash interest costs by $10 million to roughly $38 million.
Our plan for reducing debt remains the same as discussed previously.
Our goal is to reduce debt through the sale of non-core assets and through free cash flows.
We continue to execute our plan to sell non-core assets including the coal cleaning portfolio.
And additionally we continue to improve our cost structures and our working capital management all of which should improve free cash flow and enable us to continue to pay down our debt.
Let's move on to Slide 4.
Slide 4 reflects year-to-date earnings.
2011 financial results were significantly impacted by non-routine charges including $127 million of charges recorded in Q2.
In Q4 $12 million of restructuring and related charges were recorded as part of our strategy to improve ongoing cost structures and cash flow.
We also recognized $35 million of non-cash impairments related to coal cleaning.
Year-to-date our revenue from continuing operations is $592 million a 1% decrease from prior year revenues from continuing operations of $598 million.
The $6 million decrease reflects a $5 million revenue decline for Heavy Construction Materials and a $3 million decline for Light Building Products offset by a $2 million increase in Energy Technology largely due to HCAT sales.
Year-to-date gross profit from continuing operations was $150 million down 13% from $172 million in 2010.
The decrease in gross profit reflects the impact of higher material and other costs higher depreciation expense as well as lower revenue and sales mix.
The 2010 also includes $4 million of gross profit from the hydrogen peroxide joint venture which was sold in late 2010 and includes $5 million of RINS ethanol credits which have ended.
Price increases have been instituted in Light Building Products which should largely cover the increases in commodity prices that were experienced in fiscal 2011.
Year-to-date adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations is $82 million down 13% from $94 million in 2010 which also reflects the impact of higher raw material and other costs as well as lower revenues and sales mix.
Now let's move to Slide 5 for a closer look at the fourth quarter results.
Revenue from continuing operations for the fourth quarter was $178 million which was consistent with revenue from continuing operations for the same period in 2010.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations for the fourth quarter was $32 million up from $31 million in 2010.
I draw your attention to the bridge in the lower right corner of Slide 5.
This bridge highlights some of the key drivers in the year-over-year change in adjusted EBITDA.
Declines in corporate SG&amp;A compensation and professional services favorably impacted EBITDA roughly $3 million.
Increases in revenue largely due to HCAT sales favorably impacted Energy EBITDA.
Decreases in revenue and higher transportation costs negatively impacted Heavy Construction Material EBITDA and EBITDA for Light Building Products was negatively impacted by increases in raw material and other costs.
Dave and Bill will talk more about those dynamics in their presentations.
Now let's move to Slide 6 and discuss restructuring initiatives.
In Q2 we announced that a series of restructuring activities have been initiated.
Those efforts continued in the closing months of 2011.
Our restructuring efforts are designed to improve operating efficiencies and reduce manufacturing and overhead costs all in an effort to increase margins and improve free cash flows.
The restructuring activities consisted of workforce reductions facility closures and consolidations as well as operating efficiency improvements and sourcing initiatives.
The results were cash and non-cash charges related to employee severance facility shutdown and relocation as well as certain asset impairments and write-downs.
Year-to-date we recorded $18 million and during Q4 we recorded approximately $12 million of restructuring and related impairment charges.
Of the $18 million recorded in fiscal 2011 approximately $7 million are cash related.
In 2012 we expect to recognize an additional $1 million of cash-related charges to complete the restructuring activities initiated in 2011 as well as invest $2 million in related capital expenditures.
Headwaters anticipates that the restructuring activities undertaken in 2011 will result in an annualized operating income benefit of approximately $14 million of which approximately 65% will be realized in fiscal 2012.
The benefits are largely cash related.
Starting on Slide 7 Dave will cover Light Building Products.
Thank you Don and good morning everybody.
Revenues for Headwaters Light Building Products segment were up 1% in the fourth quarter relative to last year.
The new housing market continues to be soft as housing starts declined 11% in 2011 relative to 2010.
Remodeling and commercial construction have been close to flat.
We have successfully instituted a price increase in our ancillary siding business and have been able to maintain pricing in our stone and block business.
In the Houston market we have developed a world-class showroom to display our products to homeowners contractors and more importantly architects and designers that specify our products on jobs.
As a result our sales of stone brick and block have expanded in this Texas market.
We have additional revenues in custom ground phase products sales of existing and new products to big-box stores and increases in foundation product revenue in the Texas market.
We have introduced multiple product extensions in the siding markets and anticipate stable revenue in 2012 even in the current soft end market environment.
Gross profit margins for the quarter declined from 29% in 2010 to 26% in 2011 due to increases in raw materials transportation and other production costs.
For example costs on our primary resin material increased 27% in the September 2011 quarter compared to the September 2010 quarter and have increased 17% on a year-over-year average.
Most of our resin materials have experienced similar cost pressures over the prior 12 months.
We have been successful in mitigating some of this upward pressure through the use of alternative suppliers and recycled materials.
We will continue to pursue cost reductions in all of our raw inputs through improved sourcing and alternative materials.
As it has become clear over the last 6 months that the construction markets will remain flat over the next year we began an aggressive program to reduce our manufacturing cost as well as SG&amp;A costs.
In the fourth quarter we made significant cuts on the SG&amp;A side of the business and consolidated some of our manufacturing facilities.
Some of the SG&amp;A savings are already apparent in the fourth quarter results but the main impact will be felt in fiscal 2012.
Two plant consolidations were completed in October and the related benefits will begin in the December quarter and our overall restructuring activities are continuing pursuant to plan.
Headwaters has its flagship Eldorado Stone brand as well as 2 other increasingly effective stone brands Stone Craft and Dutch Quality Stone.
The 3 have operated somewhat independently in the past.
We have recently announced to the marketplace that we are bringing all 3 brands under a single operating unit and sales force which will allow us to more effectively respond to a very competitive marketplace.
This will not only better leverage our sales and marketing resources it will make it easier to get each brand into a sweet spot from a market position and pricing standpoint and respond quickly to changing market conditions.
Slide 8 shows that revenue recovered in the fourth quarter compared to last year but we continue to feel the pressure of increased costs.
The restructuring that we concluded in the fourth quarter should result in some improvement in margins going into fiscal 2012 and we expect that margins for the full year will significantly improve.
Bill is now going to discuss the results of Heavy Construction Materials starting with Slide 9.
Thanks Dave and good morning everyone.
Our coal combustion products group completed the year with revenue of $253.3 million the year-over-year decrease of 2%.
Revenue for the September 2011 quarter was $82.6 million a year-over-year decrease of $2.2 million.
Product revenue was up 6% year-over-year for the September quarter and overall product revenue for the year increased by 3%.
Product revenues continue to be impacted in the 3 largest cement-consuming regions of the United States with the largest weakness coming from California Arizona and Nevada.
Headwaters Resources provides site services to many of its utility clients.
These services include constructing and managing landfill operations operating and maintaining material handling systems and equipment maintenance.
While these services typically have lower margins than our product sales they're not as seasonal and are not as impacted by declines in construction spending.
Site service revenue for the September quarter was down over 18% on a year-over-year basis and for the overall year was down by over 12%.
As we mentioned on the June call the decline was primarily due to completion earlier in the year of work being done to install the material handling systems at the Prairie State generating station in anticipation of commercial startup.
Prairie State is beginning commercial operations and we're starting to provide long-term site services there.
Also mentioned on the June call was that we have a client where we provide site services that declared bankruptcy and has idled the plant.
Site services revenue was just over 20% of our overall revenue for the quarter and was 26.5% of our overall revenue for the year.
Slide 10 shows some quarterly trends for fiscal 2011.
Gross profit for the year was $60.3 million compared to $65.5 million for 2010.
Gross profit for the September quarter was $22.6 million compared to $25 million for the September 2010 quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA for the September quarter was $19.2 million versus an EBITDA of $20.4 million for the September 2010 quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA for the year was $46.3 million compared to $51.4 million for 2010.
Margins were lower primarily for 3 reasons: the client bankruptcy; shift of geographic mix and product sales away from California which were higher margin sales; and increased transportation costs due to weather-related supply issues in the Midwest and Northeast.
Moving to Slide 11 development of proposals by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency to regulate coal ash disposal continues at a slow pace while potential congressional action to resolve the issue has taken major steps forward.
The U.S.
House of Representatives on October 14 passed legislation designed to protect coal ash beneficial use and strengthened coal ash disposal regulations without a hazardous waste designation for the material.
H.R.
2273 the Coal Residuals Reuse and Management Act was approved by a bipartisan vote of 267 to 144.
Less than a week later a group of 5 Democrats and 5 Republicans filed a comparable bill in the United States Senate.
Meanwhile EPA has published a Notice of Data Availability seeking additional public comments on information related to the agency's proposed options for regulating coal ash disposal.
More than 450 000 public comments on the proposals were submitted to EPA during 2010.
EPA said that nearly 13 000 of those comments comprising nearly 2 million pages of data contain unique content requiring analysis.
The agency has stated that a proposed final rule will not be completed during 2011 and many speculate that the earliest EPA maybe expected to propose a final rule would be late in 2012.
Headwaters has been actively engaged in efforts to ensure that any regulations enacted by Congress or EPA will protect beneficial use by avoiding a hazardous waste designation for ash that is disposed.
These efforts have included major support for recycling organizations retention of Washington D.C.
lobbying resources exclusively devoted to the coal ash issue and underwriting of major studies by Harris Interactive and the American Road and Transportation Builders Association.
Moving to Slide 12.
Coal cleaning finished the year with revenues of $48.5 million and an adjusted EBITDA loss of $3.5 million.
For the year the business generated $5.5 million of tax credits.
The project at the Pinnacle site has been completed increasing the reserve life of the empowerment[ph].
And during the year the Alabama #7 plant was successfully restarted and it is now supplying metallurgical grade coal to the market.
Metallurgical coal pricing increased to $67 per ton resulting in a year-over-year increase of $7 per ton when adjusting for the change in the way revenues are being booked.
We remain committed to selling our coal cleaning assets and focusing on light and heavy construction materials.
During the quarter we have shown the facilities to multiple parties and we continue to have discussions with multiple parties that have expressed interest in the entire 11-plant portfolio.
We anticipate selling the facilities in due course.
Kirk will now comment on the continuing energy business in the end of the presentation.
Moving to Slide 13.
Revenue and adjusted EBITDA in our energy-related continuing operations were higher in fiscal year 2011 than 2010 primarily because of the increase in sales and adjusted EBITDA from our HCAT heavy oil additive.
Improvement is even more impressive when you consider that 2010 included revenue and EBITDA from a South Korean joint venture that was sold and RINS ethanol credits that have ended.
We are happy with the performance of HCAT in 2011.
Slide 14 illustrates the improvement in revenue adjusted EBITDA that occurred in the second half of the fiscal year.
Looking forward to 2012 we anticipate that HCAT will not generate incremental revenue from new customers.
The sales cycle will require most of 2012 to execute agreements and to construct the mixing equipment necessary to implement HCAT.
Our 2012 revenue from our existing customers will depend entirely upon the amount of material used at the refineries which is currently -- which we currently anticipate to be less than the amount used in 2011.
We are optimistic that we will execute multiple new license agreements in 2012 resulting in an increase in revenue in 2013.
In our Heavy Construction Materials and Light Building Products segments we're looking forward to 2012 with a high degree of optimism.
We expect to have sold our non-core coal cleaning business and our ethanol business improved our free cash flow and operating margins.
Our subordinated debt will continue to decline as we generate cash flow and sell assets resulting in improved credit ratios and reduced risk.
I'd now like to turn the time back over to the operator for the question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question is from the line of Trey Cobb with Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is actually B.G.
Dickey in for Trey.
I just had a question regarding the Light Building Products segment.
I noticed that you guys said that the Texas block was up 12%.
Just kind of curious to see how sustainable the growth there is as we head into '12.
And then kind of looking at your other segments subsegments there the accessories and manufactured stone can you talk a little bit about the potential there for market share losses and how comfortable you are with that taking the context of trying to maintain margins next year? Yes.
In the Texas market what's been driving the increase in revenue has not been an increase in school construction which does represent a fair amount of our revenue.
The school construction market has actually declined a little bit in that market.
But what we've been able to do is increase revenue by focusing on our strategy to sell a diversified product group.
And so we have -- the sales are actually up because of new products that have been sold into the retail distribution system and from our continuing expansion of new products.
What we expect in 2012 is that one of the CapEx expenditures that we've made is the introduction of a new polished concrete product and so the installation of the equipment to manufacture that product which there's only one other facility in the United States that can manufacture a comparable product.
So that CapEx has been approved and we're in the process right now of putting that equipment in place.
We've got folks in the marketplace that have begun the sales process for that new product and we expect to have some sales in the March quarter.
So one of the major reason that we've had some expansion in the Texas market has been our ability to expand our distribution system selling into the retail system as well as the introduction of new products into that market.
If we do happen to have a rebound in some of the institutional construction then that will be incremental revenue because that's not where our growth is coming from currently in the Texas market.
Our stone business we're quite excited about the integration of our 3 brands that Dave mentioned in the script.
We haven't been particularly efficient about coordinating the sales activities between those brands.
And I think that that has created a little bit of market share pressure on us.
We feel pretty comfortable with the restructuring that we've done with those brands and particularly focusing on our Dutch Quality brand that will be able to continue the process of gaining market share in our stone business.
I think that the trends towards the end of the year were positive and going into October the trends are positive for the stone group.
In the siding accessories product group I think we have -- Dave of course comment on the siding accessories a little bit.
We've had a little bit of -- from some of our -- some of the core products we've had a little bit of market share erosion.
We don't expect that to continue into 2012.
And in fact I think we're picking up some -- a little bit of market share in our specialty siding business and feel pretty good about the repair and remodel part of that business.
Dave why don't you add comments to anyone of the 3 product groups but particularly to the siding accessories? Yes I think that we feel really good about picking up market share in the specialty siding and our roofing category and some of the other specialty categories.
We think we're going to be able to really outperform where the market will be.
I think on our injection molded business we have had some share -- market share losses but I think we're in a position to maintain that and potentially even start to gain back some of those positions that we might have lost in the past.
I think overall we feel good about our market share position and where we're heading into 2012 fiscal year.
Our next question comes from the line of Seth Yeager with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Can you give us a sense as to the change in volumes and the price costs relationship for vinyl products during the quarter? Yes.
I think that the general answer and Dave can give some more specific detail but the general answer is that the volume the units are down in the quarter but revenue is up in the quarter primarily because of the price increase that we instituted.
But Dave why don't you add some color to that? Yes I mean I think that volume is pretty much dead flat on unit volume.
We're up -- I mean or slightly down and revenue is slightly up and most of that is because of the price increases that we've had and we've been able to maintain them in the market and we're looking to improve on that position as we find other efficiencies within our plants and our facilities and also buying better and doing things better.
Okay that's helpful.
And then as far as the EBITDA and free cash flow guidance that you guys provided for next year how much of that includes a benefit of tax credits? And in the free cash flow what sort of CapEx levels do you have baked in there? Don you want to respond? Sure.
In terms of the tax credits it would assume no tax credit.
In terms of CapEx it would be in the $27 million range.
Okay perfect.
And as far as the asset sales looks like you've bracketed $20 million to $30 million of cash proceeds.
Is that an amount that you expect to see upfront or paid out over time? As far as the ethanol business have you determined an amount that you may get from that business as well? The cash that was indicated in the press release was the amount of money we expect to be paid at closing.
And what we said about the ethanol facility would be that the cash generated would be in the range of $15 million.
Our next question comes from the line of Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> Kirk just to follow on the coal cleaning which I think all of us are glad to see you've got that bracketed now as a disco op.
Could you comment on the additional value to shareholders that could come beyond the bracketed cash proceeds you talked about or are you suggesting that expectations that that's the potential value given what you've booked on the asset for sale on the balance sheet? No I think that we -- one of the things -- I guess 2 comments.
One is that if you went back 6 months or so we were considering transactions that included a tax structure that would have allowed Headwaters to participate in tax credits going forward.
One of the issues with that type of a structure is that it is quite complicated and it created negotiating difficulties as we tried to pursue a tax structure.
Those negotiating difficulties ended up extending the period of time that would have taken to sell these assets and our primary focus is paying down our subordinated debt.
And so we've basically abandoned the approach of retaining these tax credits.
What that did was that it allowed us then to move to a discontinued operations accounting presentation which of course provides a greater insight into our continuing business and allows people to value Headwaters based on continuing operations.
So that's one of the major things that's happened over the last 6 months.
The relative to value in excess of the cash number that we provided we think that there may be an opportunity for additional value either directly from the sale of the facilities or from the sale of some of the intellectual properties associated with the facilities.
So we think that there may be an upside opportunity to the cash number that we disclosed.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to conclude on the ethanol side is there a period of expectation on that sales that's potential? That you can share or where you're at in that process? Yes I think that we would look for that asset sale to occur in the same 12-month period.
On the sale of both of these assets the sale may occur much earlier than a 12-month period because we are -- on the coal cleaning assets we're having conversations with parties and there is the potential for a much quicker sale than 12 months.
But the discontinued operations that's one of the requirements the discontinued operations treatment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then by providing the information you did in the release it looks like margins particularly at the gross side have certainly ran into a little bit of raw material costs and some other inflationary costs.
I'm wondering given that we're going into the 2 slower periods here have you aggressively caught enough costs out or altered some of the procedures to prevent maybe some of this margin erosion or better yet protect the margin despite what is a difficult forecasted period on commodities? I think that the margins just like revenue is seasonal.
The margins are seasonal as well.
And so our lower margins -- lowest margins are in the 3/31 quarter.
And so you end up having lower margins in the 12/31 and 3/31 quarters and improved margins in the June and September quarters.
And of course we expect that seasonality to continue.
We feel quite comfortable that we have reduced our cost structure sufficiently that if raw material costs are flat and if our revenue is flat our margins will improve.
And so we're anticipating improved Light Building Products margins in the next fiscal year.
And so about 60% of our restructuring activities will impact cost of goods sold at about 40% impact to SG&amp;A.
So on the gross margin line you should see -- you'll see some of that improvement in fiscal 2012.
Research Division</strong> But if I did Don's math right if I take this year's EBITDA number for the adjusted business gave you 60% of the savings it gets you to slightly ahead of the midpoint of that range you gave for fiscal '12.
Is that -- you're comfortable at that spot? Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of John Quealy with Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> It's Chip Moore for John.
Kirk maybe you can give us an update on HCAT where we stand in terms of trials and potentially moving some of those to commercial.
Yes.
Of course we continue to service our 2 existing customers but the thing that has happened is we have -- we're gaining recognition in     this relatively small community of users of ebullated-bed reactors that our additive increases the efficiency of the particular type of equipment these ebullated-bed reactors in these refineries.
And if you are able to raise temperature in these ebullated-bed reactors we allow that refinery to increase the efficiency by as much as 15% to 20%.
And so a refinery can increase throughput and it can increase the conversion of the heavy material into lighter products like diesel.
And so what's happening over the last 12 months is that the knowledge of what has occurred at our first 2 customers has spread in that industry.
So you end up with folks then looking at their own situation and determining whether or not HCAT can add value to their particular situation.
And so what's occurring is we're getting a very favorable response from multiple refineries relative to the potential application of HCAT.
So we've got -- we have 2 proposals that are in the hands of refineries currently and both of those refineries are moving ahead on a path that would be favorable to us.
We don't how know how that's going to turn out yet because we don't have the deals done and when we do we'll announce new license agreements and so we're not finished yet.
But we're having positive interaction with those refineries.
In addition to that there's another 2 to 4 refineries that are in an earlier phase of investigating HCAT and we feel pretty good that those refineries will move forward.
So we think that 2012 is going to be a year in which we will be identifying negotiating and hopefully executing additional license agreements than you have to construct the mixing equipment and mixing scheds to put HCAT into refineries.
That's why in my comments I don't think we're going to see incremental revenue in 2012 from new refineries.
But I do think that we're going to be able to position ourselves so that you'll have a bit of a hockey stick kind of revenue increase in 2013 as additional refineries come online.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And maybe you could just give us along those lines the 2 current customers sort of a volume update how we stand there? And I think you referenced maybe seeing volumes down slightly maybe a little color there? Yes.
So in 2011 we generated about $16 million of HCAT sales and we are budgeting a lower revenue number in 2012.
And the reason that we're doing that the primary season that we're doing that there's 2 but the primary reason that we're doing it is because one of our customers is using HCAT for opportunity crudes.
So if they typically have a lighter crude they have less of a need for HCAT.
But if they run an opportunity crude where the quality of the crude is worse then they'll increase the amount of HCAT that they're using.
So they're running a particular level and when they get a more difficult crude that they have to run through their refinery they'll increase the amount of HCAT being used so that they can appropriately refine that heavier crude material which really speaks to the value proposition of HCAT and it's a very positive message how HCAT is being utilized.
And so that's basically one of the -- that's the major reason is that we're being conservative relative to anticipating the number of times that the particular refinery will purchase an opportunity crude.
Now they could purchase more and they could because they may have -- they may run more opportunity crudes but what we've done is we tried to be conservative because we really don't know how many times they're going to run the opportunity crudes and increase the amount of HCAT that they'll put into their system.
And so we tried to be more conservative about that.
The other thing that occurs is refineries do shutdowns and so they do that so they can decope their facilities and they can do maintenance.
And so we tried to be a little bit conservative as to the periods of shutdown for our other refining customers.
That's basically why we've been more conservative in our revenue projection for 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great that's helpful.
And then I guess last for me if you take that in context of the other 2 segments just how should we think about revenue expectations for the other segments in terms of supporting those EBITDA projections for next year? Yes I think generally that our assumptions into our models is that the general assumption is a flat revenue and flat commodity costs going into 2012.
And on flat revenue and flat costs we'll be able to achieve the guidance the adjusted EBITDA guidance.
And the midpoint of the guidance is basically consistent with the cost savings that we're capturing from our restructuring activities.
.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Mannes with Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions first for Bill.
On the ash side it looks like we've seen some improvement at least in the third quarter well the calendar third your fiscal fourth quarter in terms of cement volumes.
Would you say you saw any of that in terms of demand for ash or can you talk a little bit about volume demand trends? Dan you can look at it from 2 different ways and we've looked at it from both cement and in ready mix and they're basically both flat.
But yes it's -- as we discussed we were up a little bit year-over-year in product revenues and obviously that's driven by a slight uptick in volume.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second piece is we've heard that the cement producers obviously talking about some price increases for next year.
They have -- likely have some cost issues they're dealing with.
Can you talk first of all are you seeing anything of that playing out? And secondly to the extent prices do increase can you talk about if you'd be able to participate and how much sharing might occur with your utilities? Well we have -- just on the pricing upside yes we're just getting into that part of the year where typically is cement producers will start to flow out their anticipated price increase.
They are out there we are seeing them.
It's probably a little too early to speculate as to how much of that price increase will stick.
We probably won't start to see that for another month or 2 as we get closer to year end.
In regards to that obviously we will pursue any pricing upside potential that's in the marketplace.
We also continue to push the mix design savings from utilizing more ash replacing more cement.
In regards to how much of that gets passed along cost of goods with our clients as we've discussed in the past we have a variety of different cost share structures some will participate in that and some won't.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
But it's fair to say that your guidance for '12 doesn't assume any price increases so to the extent the cement guides are successful that maybe an opportunity that you can outperform the guidance you guys have laid out? Yes.
Obviously if cement goes up we will participate in some upside there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
Real quick first for Kirk.
On HCAT can we assume that the Energy segment will you be making enough from HCAT to cover R&amp;D and fixed costs? Should that be breakeven or is that going to still be a bit of a drag? Well for 2011 it was positive EBITDA so there was cash contributed to our overall free cash flow in 2011.
As I indicated we're projecting revenue for 2012 will be down and the EBITDA projection for 2012 is roughly flat.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then last thing on ethanol.
First I just wanted to clarify you did say you thought in the $10 million to $15 million range would be the sale proceeds? From ethanol at the higher end of that range.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then secondly what sort of changed in your decision making there because obviously this has been -- something that's been discussed for multiple quarters as to a potential divestiture candidate.
What sort of changed your mind that now it sort of makes more sense to look at versus 6 12 months ago? Well one of the -- we're a joint venture partner in our ethanol facility and we are very interested in the well-being of our partner.
And so I don't think our feelings necessarily have changed relative to selling the ethanol plant.
But what we have been doing is trying to work very closely with our partner to ensure that our sale of our interest in an ethanol plant is not in any way disruptive to our partnership relationship.
And that's what we've been working through is making sure that we can exit in such a manner that we've maintained an excellent working relationship with our partner.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
If I remember it they're also an ash supplier to you as well correct? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the last thing sorry to spend so much time on a small piece of the business.
But in the past if I remember right there was some debt on Blue Flint.
Is that still the case? And just again to confirm the $15 million would be even after the debt paydown or that would just be the sale of your equity beef? Yes.
That's our -- that's what we anticipate from a cash perspective from the facility to us.
The facility has operated very very well and the debt there is project financing that's associated with Blue Flint and that debt has been paid down over the last 3 or 4 years.
And so the cash proceeds we're talking about is net of the debt.
Our next question comes from the line of Philip Volpicelli with Deutsche Bank.
Most of my questions have been answered but I just want to drill a little bit more into H.R.
2273 that passed and if you have any sense to the timing of when the Senate Bill could come to the floor.
If that were to pass and go to the President get signed into law would that force the EPA to make their decision sooner? How would that all work? What the House Bill basically -- is an alternative to what the EPA has proposed.
So if the House Bill passes it basically resolves any issues of the EPA relative to the disposal of ash.
And so it is an alternative solution.
The EPA could resolve the issue regulatorily and we hope that they do but the legislation that's moving through Congress is an alternative to a regulatory solution to the disposal issue.
The Senate is a complicated chamber to pass legislation.
We feel very good about the bipartisan support that we received in the House.
There was -- the vote of 37 Democrats that supported the legislation is the highest number of Democrats that has supported any EPA-based legislation that has come out of the House and so it speaks well of the bipartisan nature of this legislation and that it is a very sound alternative to what the EPA has proposed.
So on the Senate side we had 10 senators that were original co-sponsors 5 Republicans and 5 Democrats.
In order to be successful in the Senate we need to increase the number of Democrats that support the legislation and we're actively involved in working with a number of different offices to try to gain their support.
But all that said and we do think that we're going to get additional support from Democrats in the Senate because the bill is an excellent solution to the problem and so we'll find additional Democrat support.
It's still difficult to get a bill passed out of the Senate.
So we're going to continue to work on it because it's one of a very -- it's a very viable solution and we're going to continue to work on getting that done.
Our final question comes from the line of Brian Taddeo with Gleacher &amp; Company.
A couple of questions.
First with regard to the debt reduction as we look into 2012 can you give us an update as to where things stand? I think there was a carve out for the 2 high coupon bonds.
What's the RP baskets look like now to do with any of the 2.5s? And are you going back to the bank to look for a carve out for those as well? Or can you just give us an update to where that stands? As far as the senior debt is concerned we don't have any restrictions in being able to purchase any of our subordinated debt so we don't have any restrictions there.
We do have to work with the ABL on the repurchase of the 2.5% debt.
We don't have any restrictions on the 16s or the 14.75s.
And of course the 2.5% debt is trading at a discount to face and so we should be able to require incremental face amount for every dollar that we invest in repurchasing that subordinated debt.
So we feel very good about our strategy to reduce the subordinated debt.
Don you want to add...
No I think I agree with that.
We feel good about our strategy generating the cash that between now and the maturity profile of the sub debt we should be able to pay down a significant portion.
Have you had any conversations with the banks thus far about changing the carve out? We don't perceive a significant issue with the ABL banks at all.
We think that we're going to -- we have that conversations with them and we don't think that there will be an issue with our ability to repurchase the 2.5%.
Is there any -- from the asset sale proceeds from ethanol and coal cleaning is there any of that cash that cannot be used for retiring debt? Yes it's a good question.
This is Donald.
I'll take a shot at answering that.
First under -- when it comes to the ethanol there aren't any restrictions in terms of using the cash proceeds to pay down debt because the joint venture investment is not part of the security package for the senior debt.
When it comes to proceeds from selling other assets such as the coal cleaning it's not as a direct path.
In effect the senior debt debenture requires that we reinvest -- you do 1 or 2 things either reinvest the proceeds in the business and reinvestment includes things like CapEx it could include acquisitions if we so choose to do that.
But it also includes investment in other secured assets such as raw materials and inventories et cetera.
And so what that -- what we would likely do with the proceeds is we would use those proceeds to fund CapEx to fund investment and raw material purchases et cetera.
What that will then do is the free cash flow of the business would then be higher which would generate cash and would generate cash available to put toward debt reduction.
So hopefully that's clear.
Understood.
And one last thing then.
If you could just -- I don't know if you can give any more color as to where things actually stand with regards to the coal cleaning sale from the standpoint of I think last time you talked about that the expected proceeds were a little higher than the $20 million to $30 million range.
And also it sounded I believe last time there was narrowing down the number of parties you were still speaking with.
Are there new parties that have become involved in the process now? Or is it still the same groups that you've been working with in the past? Principally it's the same groups that we've been working with and that implies that if we're successful with those groups we'll be able to conclude a transaction earlier than the end of the 12-month period that was necessary for the adoption of discontinued operations.
We have had some new parties that have expressed interest.
But what we're intent on doing is concluding the process that we have undertaken with the existing parties before we open up the process to new parties.
But if we're unable to get the assets sold to the existing parties there has been expression of interest from new folks and so we feel very comfortable we're going to be able to get the assets sold within a 12-month period.
And on the dollar amount side has it been general market conditions it's something with respect to the assets the lower expectation for cash than the previously? Yes I'm not sure that our expectation for cash has changed that much.
The overall valuation has changed primarily because we have abandoned the concept of retaining tax credits.
And so that's had a narrowing effect on the overall valuation.
I think our perspective at least on the upfront cash piece is roughly the same as it has been.
We may not have been really clear I guess in our communication of that because we were kind of focused on the overall value rather than the individual pieces.
But the cash piece of $20 million to $30 million is roughly consistent with what we've expected for some period of time.
But again the overall value is lower because we're pursuing a transaction that does not include tax credits.
With that change we think it significantly simplifies the transaction and puts us on a path of a quicker sale.
It increases the likelihood that we'll get a deal done.
Let me ask -- if you're giving up the tax credits now wouldn't that in essence mean you should be receiving more cash upfront than less? Depends on the perspective of the buyers because what we were trying to accomplish was a simplification of the transaction so we could get a deal done.
And so I don't -- it doesn't have that much of an impact on the upfront cash.
It also has to do with what the intended use of the assets are by the buyer.
If they intend to use the facilities in let's say more of a mining and processing met coal.
Met coal doesn't qualify for tax credits and so it really comes down to how the buyers the potential buyers view the assets and their appetite for the credits.
Understood.
And just one last clarification on one of your earlier comments regarding to the coal cleaning.
If I heard you correct before you mentioned there was the potential for some additional value above the $20 million to $30 million.
Wouldn't you just be selling -- would you be selling all 11 coal cleaning units what would be left that there could potentially be some value for above the $20 million to $30 million? Well that basically -- that means deferred payments.
And at this time I'd like to turn the conference back over to management for any closing comments.
With that we will go ahead and end the call.
We'd like to thank you all for your participation.
Thank you.
Thank you ma'am.
Ladies and gentlemen if you'd like to listen to a replay of today's conference please dial 1 (800) 406-7325 or (303) 590-3030 using the access code of 4483410.
This does conclude the Headwaters Incorporated Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year End 2011 Conference Call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Headwaters Inc.
First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded January 31 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Tricia Ross of Financial Profiles.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Headwaters Incorporated first quarter fiscal year 2012 conference call.
There are slides accompanying today's presentation that can be found on the webcast link at the Headwaters Incorporated website under the Investor Relations section under the Events Conferences and Presentations link.
Please go there to follow along with the slides.
If you have any issue please feel free to email me at tross@finprofiles.com and I can e-mail you a copy.
I would now like to turn the call over to Sharon Madden Vice President of Investor Relations at Headwaters Inc.
Thank you Tricia.
Good morning and thank you for joining us as we report Headwaters' fiscal 2012 Q1 results.
Kirk Benson Headwaters' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Don Newman Headwaters' Chief Financial Officer will be conducting the call this morning along with Bill Gehrmann who is President of Headwaters Resources and Heavy Construction Materials segment; and Dave Ulmer who is President of Tapco International.
Before we get started on this call this morning I would like to remind everyone that Headwaters is sponsoring its 10th Annual Investor Day Conference here in Salt Lake City on March 1 and 2.
For more information please feel free to contact me through our corporate offices and I would be happy to supply you with additional information.
While listening to the call please remember that certain statements made during the call including statements relating to our expected future business and financial performance may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 both as amended.
Forward-looking statements by their very nature address matters that are to different degrees uncertain.
These uncertainties are described in more detail in Headwaters' annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
You can find Headwaters' annual report on Form 10-K our quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings readily available from the SEC website Headwaters website or directly from the company.
I'll now turn the call over to Kirk Benson.
Thank you Sharon.
I'd like to welcome everyone to the conference call this morning.
We're happy to report that we've experienced the strongest December quarter since 2008.
Gross margins are up 160 basis points and operating expenses are down nearly 9% or 230 basis points lower as a percent of sales.
Adjusted EBITDA increased nearly 50% year-over-year with light building products adjusted EBITDA up by a very healthy 71%.
There are 2 major drivers for the improved performance over the prior year.
First we implemented a restructuring plan as part of our continuous improvement efforts the benefits of which are now flowing through the P&amp;L resulting improvements to gross margins and lower operating expenses.
The result is a material improvement in adjusted EBITDA up about $7 million in the quarter resulting in additional free cash flow and improved risk metrics.
Second we're starting to see some sustained support to our top line.
Whereas we've been flat to down for the last 3 years in light building products we're beginning to see a sign of a slightly improving performance on our revenue line.
Albeit it's at a 5% rate it's the fastest quarterly growth that we've experienced since 2006.
Our highly-leveraged operating model results in substantial increases in adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow as we start to experienced topline growth.
So far the weather has favored sales in January and we hope that the trend on the top line will continue into the second quarter.
Our trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations is on track to achieve our guidance range of $85 million to $95 million for fiscal year 2012.
And this guidance range is after the sale of the Blue Flint Ethanol facility and so it is the guidance from our continuing operations.
We sold our investment in ethanol for $18.5 million.
We'll reinvest the proceeds and assets to benefit the company freeing up additional cash to pay down our subordinated debt.
In the December quarter we repaid $7.5 million of our 2.5% convertible debt and then in January we followed on with another $7.7 million of debt reduction in our high coupon debt.
The combined debt reduction will reduce interest expense on an annualized basis in the amount of about $1.3 million.
Our total interest expense reduction over the last year is now in excess of $11 million annually.
We're excited about the first quarter results.
It's a great start to the year and gets us out of the gate well ahead of expectations.
I'd now like to turn the time over to Don for a discussion of the quarterly financial results starting on Slide 3.
Thank you Kirk.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Before discussing Slide 3 I wanted to mention that we intend to file our Form 10-Q later this week.
My comments today will be directed to the slides that were sent out this morning and to a lesser extent the condensed consolidated balance sheets and statement of operations that were attached to the press release.
As noted we did sell our 51% interest in the Blue Flint our ethanol LOC joint venture effective January 1 2012 for $18.5 million.
While Blue Flint was a well-performing investment for Headwaters returning $18.5 million on a net cash investment or approximately $9 million the sale of Blue Flint is not expected to have a significant negative impact on Headwaters' ongoing cash flows.
This is due to Blue Flint historically using the majority of its cash flow from operations to pay down its project level debt.
We recognized a noncash book loss of approximately $6 million related to the sale reflecting the difference between the sale proceeds and the carrying value of the investment in Blue Flint.
That loss as well as equity earnings from Blue Flint are now included in other income expense.
The accounting rules do not allow for discontinued operations treatment for an equity method account -- equity method investment such as our investment in Blue Flint.
To improve visibility into the operating results of our core business we have excluded equity earnings from Blue Flint from our current as well as historic adjusted EBITDA.
As a result you will be able to see the earnings generated by our core businesses excluding Blue Flint.
First quarter revenue from continuing operations was $137 million an increase from the prior year revenue of $136 million.
First quarter adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations is more than $20 million a 49% increase from prior year EBITDA of approximately $14 million.
Our margins expanded year-over-year as cost initiatives started in latter fiscal 2011 had their planned effect.
Gross margins increased 160 basis points and adjusted EBITDA margins increased 475 basis points with cost improvements in raw materials facilities and labor.
We'll add color regarding the performance of the quarter as we progress through the presentations.
Our liquidity remains strong with $42 million of cash and $37 million availability under the ABL revolver at the end of the quarter.
Let's move on to Slide 4.
While consolidated revenue was up slightly year-over-year light building products saw a 5% increase in sales which more than offset a $2 million decrease in HCAT sales.
Light building products revenue increased largely due to volumes and increases in average sales prices while HCAT sales were lower due to a customer turnaround in the current quarter.
The $6 million improvement in adjusted EBITDA can be seen in broadening gross margins for both the light building products and the heavy construction materials as well as a $3 million decrease in SG&amp;A.
We talked at length during the Q4 call in November about a series of restructuring activities that have been initiated by the company.
The restructuring activities consisted of: workforce reductions; facility closures and consolidations as well as operating efficiency improvements; and sourcing initiatives.
We still expect the restructuring activities undertaken in 2011 and Q1 of 2012 will result in an annualized operating income benefit of approximately $14 million of which approximately 65% will be realized in fiscal 2012.
The benefits are largely cash related.
Interest expense decreased more than $4 million year-over-year largely due to the debt repayments and to the 2011 senior debt refinancing.
Debt repayments through January and the senior debt refinancing have enabled us to reduce our annual cash interest costs by approximately $11 million to roughly $36 million.
Discontinued operations reflects the results for coal cleaning.
The loss for the quarter includes approximately $5 million of noncash charges in large part related to recognizing reclamation obligations which are backed by deposits made by the company in prior periods.
We continue to make operational changes to the plants to improve cash performance while the sales process continues and should see improved cash flows in the second quarter.
Dave Bill and Kirk will take -- will talk more about these dynamics in their presentations.
On Slide 5 we can see the quarterly year-over-year comparisons of revenue and adjusted EBITDA.
Let's move to Slide 6 and spend a few minutes discussing debt.
Our debt position has improved during the last 2 quarters as we've increased our trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA from a low point of $74.5 million in the June 2011 quarter to $84.4 million at the end of the December quarter.
We closed the quarter with a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 5.7:1 after reaching a high point of 6.7:1 in the June 2011 quarter.
On a pro forma basis if you were to include the $18.5 million of Blue Flint sales proceeds and the net debt to adjusted EBITDA calculations as of December 31 the ratio would decrease to 5.5:1.
The face value of subordinated debt is $128 million after the debt payment made in January.
Our goal is to reduce debt through the sale of noncore assets and through free cash flows.
We continue to evaluate and execute our plan to sell our noncore assets including the coal cleaning portfolio.
Additionally we continue to improve our cost structures and working capital management all of which should improve free cash flow and enable us to continue pay down debt.
Starting on Slide 7 Dave will cover light building products.
Thanks Don and good morning everybody.
As you can see on Slide 7 revenues from our light building products segment in the first quarter were $73.3 million an increase of $3.6 million or 5% compared to the December quarter last year.
The 5% boost in revenue was the largest year-over-year quarterly growth rate since June of 2006.
Growth occurred in all major product lines but particularly in our siding and architectural stone product groups.
We successfully maintained pricing in our stone and block product groups and successfully instituted a price increase in the second half of fiscal 2011 for our ancillary siding product to offset increases in raw materials and labor costs.
According to the Census Bureau non-seasonally adjusted housing starts for the quarter ended December 31 2011 were 23% higher than the housing starts for the quarter ended December 31 2010.
In addition according to the leading indicator of remodeling activity issued by the Joint Center of Housing Studies of Harvard University remodeling activity for the calendar year 2011 was approximately 1% higher than calendar year 2010.
We are cautiously optimistic of seeing revenue increases for our fiscal year ending September 30 2012 and are confident that we have sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet those demands.
Gross profit margins for the quarter in light building group increased from 23% in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 to 25% in the December quarter this year due to the restructuring initiatives implemented in the second half of fiscal 2011 and higher average sales prices.
The revenue increases and restructuring initiatives had a favorable impact on our adjusted EBITDA providing growth of 71% year-over-year for the first quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA increased by $4.7 million to $11.3 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2012.
The 600-basis-point improvement in adjusted EBITDA margin was the result of the improved gross margin as well as a decline in our SG&amp;A costs.
We will continue to look for ways to improve margins and operating efficiencies.
The architectural stone group has initiated its rebrand strategy to better serve the market minimize channel conflict and to best utilize its SG&amp;A structure.
The stone group is also seeing favorable sales growth from the recently-introduced fireplace surround program.
Our foundation products continue to run at all-time high levels due to the drought conditions in the Texas market.
We are scheduled to begin production this month of our new polished block product and we have received several orders prior to that launch.
We've also expanded our block business with lows by getting additional SKUs into the product offering at those stores currently being serviced.
In the siding group we have recently completed the consolidation of our Michigan production facilities to save costs and better utilize efficiencies and have negotiated an agreement for locking raw material pricing for a portion of the year.
We have also realized market share increases by gaining the business from competition in the specialty siding and roofing categories.
Now turning to Slide 8.
As already discussed you can see that the first quarter was better than last year in both revenue and adjusted EBITDA.
Looking forward to the second quarter our January sales are currently trending above plan and due to actions taken to improve margins and reduce SG&amp;A costs we believe that we have -- that we will have a positive comparable in our second quarter as well.
Now I'll turn the presentation over to Bill.
Thanks Dave and good morning everyone.
On Slide 9 you can see that revenue for the December 2011 quarter in our coal combustion product business is $63.1 million compared to $63.2 million for the December 2010 quarter.
Overall product revenues for the quarter were up 6% year-over-year.
Product revenues continue to be impacted by lower cement consumption in 3 -- in the 3 largest cement-consuming regions in the United States with the largest weakness coming from markets in the West.
However we continue to see signs that we may be nearing the bottom of the fly ash market in California and our western region posted a positive year-over-year volume increase for the first time since the December 2007 quarter.
Headwaters' client services provides side services to many of its utility clients.
These services include: constructing and managing lands of operations; operating and maintaining material handling systems; and equipment maintenance.
While these services typically have lower operating margins than our product sales they're not as seasonal and are not as impacted by declines in construction spending.
Site service revenue for the December 2011 quarter declined by $2.5 million compared to the December 2010 quarter.
The year-over-year decrease is due to construction revenue from the installation of material handling systems at Prairie State in the December 2010 quarter.
Prairie State began operation in the December 2011 quarter and we began providing long-term site services.
We also began providing long-term site services at Virginia City another new plant.
Both of these sites should be fully operational by the end of the June 2012 quarter.
Site services revenue accounted for 27% of our overall revenue for the quarter.
Moving to Slide 10.
Gross profit for the December 2011 quarter was $16 million compared to $14.9 million for the December 2010 quarter.
The increase in gross profit on year-over-year flat revenue is a result of our ongoing continuous improvement efforts and the shift in product mix.
Adjusted EBITDA for the December 2011 quarter was $13.3 million compared to $11.8 million for the December 2010 quarter.
Moving to Slide 11 as we mentioned on the previous call on October 14 the U.S.
House of Representatives passed legislation designed to protect coal ash beneficial use and strengthened coal ash disposal regulations without a hazardous waste designation for the material.
HR 2273 the Coal Residual Reuse and Management Act was approved by a bipartisan vote of 267 to 144.
Less than a week later a group of 5 Democrats and 5 Republicans filed a comparable bill in the United States Senate.
Supporters of Senate Bill 1751 are seeking additional sponsors.
These bills provide a rational balanced approach to managing the disposal of coal combustion products and are supported by a wide range of stakeholders.
On January 18 environmental special interest groups filed a notice of intent to sue the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency seeking to force a deadline on the EPA for promulgation of the final regulation.
All stakeholders except environmental activist groups support a balanced reasoned approach to coal ash disposal regulation without a hazardous waste designation.
Headwaters favors the elimination of any RCRA subtitle C option as soon as possible and encourages the EPA to act appropriately.
The EPA is conducting a risk evaluation and capsulated beneficial use of coal ash that should be completed in the late spring of this year.
We anticipate that the EPA will confirm its long-term support of the environmental benefits associated with the use of fly ash as a substitute for Portland cement.
I'll now turn the call back to Kirk Benson for comments on our energy technology segments.
Kirk? In our energy technology segment on Slide 12 HCAT is running as planned at the Neste refinery and is being used by a second refinery.
HCAT is performing as we have planned and is creating value as heavy oil conversion has improved with reduced fouling.
Revenue in the first quarter was lower primarily because Neste was performing a plant turnaround early in the quarter and had ample inventory on hand to supply its needs.
The turnaround was completed and shipments resumed in January.
We signed a $1.5 million solvent refined coal contract to produce a metallurgical coal enhancer from low ranked coal.
We're working with a major South Korean company on the development of a 2 million-ton per year facility that will improve the performance of lower quality coals to enable the coals to be used in metallurgical applications.
Slide 13 which now reflects HTI exclusively shows the decline in revenue and EBITDA year-over-year primarily because of lower HCAT shipments in the December quarter.
Slide 14 highlights our outlook for 2012.
Our trailing 12-months adjusted EBITDA for continuing operations at December 31 improved from $77.7 million in September to $84.4 million reflecting the improvement in the December 2011 quarter EBITDA of $6.7 million.
Looking forward our March 2011 quarter was quite difficult as we experienced cost increases in several different areas.
In March 2012 however we anticipate that our restructuring activities will more than offset last year's cost increases and we will have an increase in trailing 12-months EBITDA.
Actual for the December quarter combined with this forecast for the following 9 months place us at or past the midrange of our $85 million to $95 million guidance and allows us to affirm our 2012 forecast for adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations.
We also continue to expect to generate free cash flow of between $20 million and $30 million from continuing operations prior to our restructuring costs.
So I'd now like to turn the time back over to the operator for the question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Phil Volpicelli with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> My question is regard to the price increases that you implemented in light building products.
Can you give us a little color on are they sticking? Are there any plans for additional increases? Or are you comfortable with the levels you're at now? I'll start with the second half of the question which is that I think we're pretty comfortable with the levels that we're at.
The -- We've instituted the price increases to cover some of the costs that we experienced in beginning in the December 2010 quarter and going into the March 2011 quarter.
We're pretty comfortable with our pricing.
And we've been able to hold to holc those pricing levels.
Dave why don't you had a little bit of color to that? I agree Kirk in that we are confident that our price increases have stuck in and will stick in the market place.
We're not concerned with them going away at this point and we're comfortable where the levels are right now and don't see a need to have any further increases at this time.
Research Division</strong> And then with regard to the raw material prices that I think you said were locked in can you give us a sense how that compares year-over-year or if there's any advantage to the raw material prices you've locked in? We've been able to lock in our prices a little bit lower year-over-year.
And so we would expect a -- some improvement in raw material pricing in the March quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's above and beyond the costs savings actions that you took? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Actually one last one.
On the point in litigation can you update us on where we stand with that? I know you've appealed the judgement you've reserved for it with a letter of credit what's the next step there? We're in the process of developing the briefings related to the appellate action.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in that is there any time frame around that? We don't control the timing of course because it's  at the appellate court level.
We would think that towards the end of -- end of the summer would probably be some time when there would be some activity from the appellate court -- end of the summer into the fall.
But again that's a timing we don't control.
Our next question comes from the line of John Quealy with Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
Going back to the light building products you talked about the price increases.
Can you talk about any dealer activity? Did you have any particular selling activity Kirk that added dealers or with an incentive to boost that volume number? Could you give us some more characterization there? Yes.
One of the things that I would like to do is give a little pitch for Sharon's analyst conference that's coming up soon because one of the things that we're going to do is discuss the improvements we're making to our core businesses our core product activities.
And so with that renewed focus I think there's opportunities in our network of distributors and there's probably some opportunities given the slight improvement at least in our outlook relative to sales.
It's a great time to be able to increase revenue from those from the existing customer network existing distributors.
And so I think Dave is of course leading this effort and has an excellent relationship with our distribution system.
He was the -- before taking Jack Lawless' place he was in charge of our sales and marketing for our siding group.
And he's -- one of his real strengths is the relationship with the distribution system.
So why don't you follow up Dave with just a couple of some of the success activities that you have that you've been able to implement during the last quarter? Okay.
We've picked up some market share wins specifically on our foundry and inspire categories.
We picked up new distribution on foundry with a strong customer -- Harvey industries in new England.
Picked up their siding business from a competitor and we've picked up several roofing customers that have been due to the fact some our efforts and some of our competitors have gotten out of the product categories that we've served and that's helped us quite a bit.
With retailers and wholesalers in specifically the foundry and inspire product categories.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then moving to heavy duty service revenues were about 27%.
It looks like in the release and in the slides you're seeing some new projects -- service projects are kicking off.
Can you talk to the relative size or at least quantitatively what we should be thinking about service revenues throughout the next calendar year here? One of the things that -- we've had a negative comparable primarily because the 12/31/2010 quarter was the end of the construction period on the Prairie State facility.
And so that revenue drops off and so it won't be in the comparable maybe a little bit I guess in the 3/31 quarter.
But by enlarge that drops off and so what we should start seeing is some improvement in the year-over-year comparison in service business.
Do you agree with that Bill? Yes.
And to add a little more color.
I appreciate that.
Actually...
I didn't know if you were going to continue but...
No.
Yes to give you a feeling I think we've talked a little bit more in detail about Prairie States in the past but when that -- those units at that plant site are fully commercial which they're working towards in regards to -- from a volume perspective that would probably be our largest site services contract at the moment.
Behind that we've also shared on a previous call that we've entered into agreement with Dominion at their Virginia City power park.
That site is starting to ramp up there too.
And from a volume perspective though it's not near the volumes that we will see at Prairie State it is still a significant site services opportunity for us.
Research Division</strong> And then the last question just sort of an ancillary opportunity I guess in heavy-duty.
But I know you guys work I think up in the Bakken in helping some stabilization or some pumped water.
But also in the Marcellus there's obviously a whole bit of activity around processed water and frac water stabilization.
Kirk can you comment on the relative opportunity or risk that you see there because it certainly seems like fly ash designate would be a very favorable opportunity assuming the EPA comes back with the D title.
Yes one of the things that's happening and what we're seeing we're seeing more direct activity in the North Dakota oil boom than we are at the moment in Pennsylvania area.
Although we think that the Pennsylvania Marcellus Shale could present us with an upside opportunity.
What's happening is that the demand in North Dakota has increased fairly dramatically.
That's allowed us to sell our ash at a higher price because of the demand.
It's also causing us to shift some of the movement of the ash.
So for example would be taking ash from the Colbert station of North Dakota selling that ash into the stabilization market for oil drilling and then servicing the Minneapolis markets from other ash sources.
It's one of the real positive that Bill has developed in this business over the last several years.
We have over 30 distribution centers and what we're able to do because of our breath in supply is we're able to move ash from one destination -- from one supplier to another.
So for example we'll be able to supply Minneapolis out of supply from a different location and then put our North Dakota ash into the higher priced higher margin oil stabilization business.
So it's really a testament to the system that Bill has developed over the years in being able to match the supply with demand.
And we're seeing some upside in particularly that opportunity.
Our next question comes from the line of Trey Grooms from Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is actually B.G.
Dickey in for Trey.
Just a question on your housing-related businesses.
It sounds like things are better getting a little bit better there based on your comments this morning.
But do you see the top line improvement in that core -- in this core businesses and the margin expansion that you've put up in the quarter as sustainable? Or are other kind of more temporary factors such as stable weather helping to drive some of that improvement? One thing that's interesting to me is if you look at the 12/31/10 quarter compare it with 12/31/11 the weather in the quarter was relatively comparable year-over-year.
In -- October is a very important month in the quarter and you basically make or break the quarter in the month of October.
So October of 2010 the weather was somewhat mild and we had a very good October in 2010.
That whether repeated itself in 2011.
And so weather really wasn't that much of a factor in the 12/31 quarter because it was relatively comparable year-over-year.
So our improved performance is not tied to weather in the 12/31 quarter.
Our improved performance is really based upon the marketing -- the sales and marketing gains that Dave alluded to in our foundry product our roofing product.
And we had a 6% increase in our shipments in ash in the heavy construction materials business.
And so it's that part of the year the first quarter was not -- we weren't really benefited by weather.
Now going into January.
January has been very mild.
So as we indicated that the trends that we saw in at least the top line trends that we saw in the 12/31 quarter are continuing into January.
I can't speak is to whether or not we'll be overly benefited from the weather in the month of January because I think January was more mild in '12 than it was in '11.
So there's probably a little bit of and if you -- when we get into the 3/31 quarter we might see a little bit of extra benefit from weather.
But the other changes that we've made in the business we improved efficiencies those improvements are continuing and are not temporary and they're not weather-based.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I think you may have touched on this but maybe just a point of clarification regarding the restructuring activity in the light building products segment.
I believe you said that you're expecting around $14 million in annual savings.
There was about 65% to be realized in F'12.
But could you provide us with a break down there of the savings the split between the SG&amp;A and COGS? And then what that mix might look like going forward? Don might be able to add a little bit to this.
I think if you generally look at what happened in the 12/31 quarter it's a split between SG&amp;A and cost of good sold.
So we had about 160 basis point improvement and in cost of goods sold.
And then 400 basis points in SG&amp;A.
So it's basically that's roughly a 1/3 in costs of goods sold and 2/3 in SG&amp;A.
But that's just a rough estimate I mean that could vary a little bit of course as we move into the March quarter.
Yes I think when you look at the overall and once all -- if you look the full population of $14 million or so of savings what you would see is SG&amp;A would be in the neighborhood of $6 million to $7 million of that.
So it ends up being close to a I guess a 50-50 split between the COGS and the SG&amp;A.
The staging on it is a little bit different but ultimately when the full $14 million comes in you'll see something in the $6 million to $7 million on SG&amp;A.
Our next question comes from the line of Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> Could you Kirk maybe touch on and with the team there in terms of the order patterns that you're seeing particularly on light building products how do you feel the channel is for your specific customers? And then the same I guess in terms of Bill's business on the fly ash in terms of increase in demand in terms of the near -- next couple of quarters? I think that we have of course today's the last day of January and as I mentioned before we may be benefiting from the mild weather in January.
But we weren't benefiting from that mild weather in the 12/31 quarter and we had some positive trends on the topline.
And so those positive trends are continuing into January as Dave said particularly in our specially siding products and our roofing products.
But we're also seeing a little bit of strength in more of our core building products -- the shutters aligning blocks gable vents -- those type of products going into January.
And so I think we have at least through January 31 we have every reason to be optimistic about at least a slight increase in the top line.
Dave why don't you follow up on that question a little bit and add a little bit of additional color? Yes.
I would say specifically that our calls that we receive and orders that we receive into our group are up and are tracking actually a little bit up from where the actual -- up more than the market is up.
Our calls and orders are up probably 25% for the quarter ended in December.
So the calls have been good and as Kirk said we didn't get the benefit from the weather.
The other advantage that we do have that points being able to sustain what we have been doing is that the new housing start number is up and we always have a lag behind that for our specific products and the remodeling numbers are up from where they were in prior years.
So additional calls additional orders and an upswing in what the experts are saying on the markets point to more activity and hopefully some sustained growth.
On the heavy construction side the thing that was most impressive to me is for the first time since for several years the Western region had positive year-over-year tons shipped.
And so that -- and that reflects at least a stabilization in these Western markets which is very positive.
And then we picked up some additional supply in the central region.
So we had some wins giving us additional access supply and that in turn resulted in an increase in the number of tons sold in the central region.
So Bill why don't you add to that.
I think you covered it.
As you said we've seen what we feel for now several quarters and stabilization in the Western part of the United States.
And we have had some wins on supply in the central region.
In honesty we've needed those as Kirk talked about some of the oilfield opportunities that would've actually potentially created some supply constraints but the folks out there in the field have been able to picked up some additional supply as sources may not be suitable necessarily as high quality fly ash replacement for portland cement but quite suitable for use in some of these oilfield activities.
So we picked that up as we said because that we're having to use our logistics system to reallocate supply to meet specific needs based on ash quality.
And we feel very comfortable that we're getting close to increasing our supply of quality fly ash used for cement replacement.
And then beyond that -- beyond the volume side obviously as we get into this first quarter it's typically when we're able to implement our price increases for the year.
So we ought to see a little additional bump from that also.
One thing that really is exciting to us or after going through as many years as we have with the revenue declines our operational model is quite highly leveraged operationally.
So we end up with a contribution margin above 40%.
So as you start to see a little bit of strength in the top line the leverage when it gets down to operating income and adjusted EBITDA is very positive.
And so it's something of course as your management team it's something that we really look forward to because we've had to deal with that operating leverage from a negative perspective as revenues declined.
That's had an extra impact on our free cash flow and adjusted EBITDA.
But as we start to see a little bit of more comfort in the top line that operating leverage turns into tremendous positive for Headwaters.
And so it just levers down to the free cash flow and to adjusted EBITDA.
So hopefully what we're seeing is more than just like in January it is more than just a mild January we'll actually maybe see a few percentage points increase in the revenue line as we move forward into the year.
Research Division</strong> So if I may try and summarize it it sounds like the volume trends are positive relative to your expectations contributing to the top line growth and your pricing has somewhat caught up and stuck that you're covering some prior inflated costs.
And going forward you're going to have to manage the cost equation through price increases to add more to the just the volume growth helped by the horrible last couple of quarters.
Is that fair? It's -- The only thing that I would add to what you said was that I'm not sure we're focused on -- Bill said we're going to have a -- this is an opportunity for us to have a little bit of price increase in the fly ash side of the business and I think that was Bill's comment so that's fair.
I don't think we're anticipating price increase on the light building products side.
We will continue to find opportunities to increase our efficiencies as we maintain focus on margins going forward.
So a little bit of help on the price side with the heavy construction materials business.
But the continued focus on margin improvement will also be cost-oriented on the light building products side as well as on the heavy side.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to try summarize that or focus.
On the light building products side though you've continued to sound like there's some forward exposure as costs maybe pick up or could pick up that we'll still have this trailing recovery in terms of your ability to pass those through to your customers.
Is that still a good tack? I think if we were in the position where we felt that costs were going to jeopardize margins we would be in a position to raise prices.
We're right now looking at where we're at with the cost structure and the cost pressures that we see we don't think we're going to have to raise prices in light building products in order to maintain and improve our adjusted EBITDA and operating margins going forward.
So we think that our continuous improvement activities have been sufficient to at least and on the 12/31 quarter and going into the March quarter have been sufficient to address any incremental cost pressures that we're seeing.
And our diesel prices haven't come down transportation costs are always an issue for us where we continue to be very concerned about cost pressures.
But as of today I think we're quite comfortable that we can see a continuation of the margin improvements that we accomplished in the 12/31 quarter going forward without raising prices.
But if we had to I thinks that's something that we'd revisit.
Our next question comes from the line of Seth Yeager with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You talked quite a bit about California and volume growth there not to beat the weather issue to death but I mean what's the underlying demand look like there? There are some projects that are starting to pick up or was a portion of that just due to some of the favorable weather year-over-year? And top line specific? Yes and I'm not sure that -- And Bill you'll need to speak to this as well.
I don't think that in the Western region we were particularly impacted by weather.
I know generally that's true.
If you look at the business overall across the country the weather in December quarter was comparable to the -- weather December 2011 was comparable to the December 2010.
And so what we're seeing is a pickup in the economic activity unrelated to weather.
But adding to that Bill is that what you would suggest as well? Yes.
I would echo that.
I think what we have seen is some increased activity for most of our ready mix customers out there.
I think a measure of that is plants in operation obviously over the last couple of years they had idled a lot of their plants a lot of their mixer trucks.
And I think we have seen over the last quarter some positive impacts some pick up as far as them operating a few more plants and bringing back a few drivers and operating some more mixer trucks.
Yes but we're not saying this is a change from like night to day.
No.
This is more like more night to -- the sun is starting to peak just a little bit above the horizon.
So we're not trying to say that this is -- it's not a game changing event for the Western region.
It just happens to be the first time that we've have a positive year-over-year comp which is good.
But it's not like Bill is selling his home in Texas and moving to California.
No.
I think that as we've said in the script we feel that it's stabilized.
But beyond that would be difficult to say.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the cash flows with the a bit of pick up in demand what's your I guess best guess at this point for your use of working capital as you go throughout the year? And are you guys going to see any impact from reclamation or anything like that with the potential asset sale? From a cash flow standpoint we guided at $20 million to $30 million of free cash flow for the year and we're sticking with that range.
So from a working capital standpoint I'm not seeing a significant plus or minus to the assumptions that we had in that $20 million to $30 million range.
In terms of reclamation expenditures we are not expecting a material dollar amount related to that kind of activity.
The estimate is $3 million.
At the very very high side $3 million.
Probably something south of $2 million.
So still sticking to that $20 million to $30 million range.
And I was just going to add that we're going to continue to focus on paying down debt.
And so as we generate free cash flow our primary mission in life is to reduce our subdebt.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And you guys have a good job of taking advantage of repurchasing in the open market.
How much cash do you have remaining and set aside for the 2.5 if any? So the way that I would think about it is based upon our projections for the year we paid down about $15 million of subdebt so far in fiscal '12.
We would expect that based upon the cash generation for fiscal '12 we would look to have about another $30 million available through the operations of the business to pay down debt.
Operations of the business plus we do have some initiatives in place to improve some of our working capital management et cetera.
So about $30 million.
That $30 million does not include our estimated proceeds from the sale of coal cleaning.
Some of it may take a little bit into October because you're collecting receivables and stuff.
Your working capital basically peaks in about June July kind of timeframe stays kind of constant and then declines.
And so as Don's references it probably flows a little bit past the end of the fiscal year.
That's absolutely correct.
So the way to think about it is when I talk about fiscal '12 don't use that $30 million as a forecast figure for why we're going to end up with a net debt to EBITDA ratio for the end of the period.
It's the cash generated from the fiscal '12 activities.
And to Kirk's point some of those receivables are being collected 30 and 60 days after period end paying some payables et cetera et cetera.
So that'll give you a sense on what we expect to do.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate that's helpful.
And if I could just sneak in one last one.
Just sort of on a high level there has been some cement price increases announced beginning of this year and potentially some for April that were I guess for the most part unsuccessful.
Did you guys see any impact on fly ash from any of those announcements from your customers? Bill needs to respond to this as well.
But I just want to make a general comment which is that there's still a fairly large spread between the average price per ton that cement sells at the average price per ton that fly ash sells at.
The  reason there is that wide spread is the nature of the fly ash market and so we don't see like a 1 for 1 kind of impact when cement prices change.
It's very good if the cement prices go up.
But it doesn't necessarily have a 1 for 1 impact on fly ash pricing.
Bill is that your sense? Yes that's my sense and to add a little more color.
Obviously it's typical strategy within the cement industry to start in the late fall and start to float out price increases and see what sticks.
As you mentioned a lot of them didn't stick or the full extent of the asked-for price increase didn't stick.
What we're seeing is cement companies going back out in some of these markets and floating out another price increase and we're starting to see a little bit more of that stick so we'll continue to monitor that throughout the spring.
And our next question comes from the line of Dan Mannes with Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of quick follow-ups.
First to Dave you commented on the housing starts.
You're talking about I think it was 20-plus percent up in the fourth quarter.
My impression that's mostly multifamily.
Can you talk about maybe your exposure there and the opportunity you see multifamily versus single which is I guess what I've always pegged you guys to? So we are more oriented towards single family.
I think that's absolutely correct.
We do have some exposure to the multifamily particularly in our stone business for example we've got a number of relationships that result in sales to multifamily.
But I think your impression is accurate.
We are more oriented towards single family than multifamily.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I think historically you quoted something along the lines of -- [indiscernible] $10 million of -- was it $10 million of revenue per 100 000 incremental homes built or something along those lines? Is there anything comparable in the multifamily quarter you can quote us? Or if you can correct my numbers if I'm a little stale? Well whether you're a little stale or not we would be a little stale on that on those numbers.
That's about as I remember that was almost 3 years ago that we made that statement.
So we would have to refresh our calculation of even -- of your first number Dan.
We don't have a number on multifamily.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a final question on light building products as you look at Q4 can you just slow down of the 5% up how much of that was price versus volume or mix as well would be a piece of it? No I think that a fair amount of that in the quarter was price.
We did see some volume increase in a couple of specialty lines but there was a -- but a fair amount of that was price.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Real quickly on the construction material side on ash given what we've seen I guess with a little bit of decreased coal output any issues yet with availability? I mean I know you said you picked up some new sources but are you seeing reduced availability from existing and is that a constraint at all? It has not been the constraint on us at this point.
You do have to look at -- you got to be -- you have to drill down into regions and sometimes even into local situations to really make the assessment but our distribution system as I've indicated allows us to compensate for some of those.
When a facility shuts down we can oftentimes compensate but it does take sometimes it takes a little bit of time to put some logistical system in motion so that you can compensate for those changes in supply.
But generally supply has not been a barrier to sales.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it will be a high-class problem when you don't have enough ash is what you're saying? It absolutely will be.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a clarification also on construction materials.
With Virginia City and Prairie plants coming on line in June are those service agreements that are kicking in? Or are those going to be ash sale agreements or a combination? They're service agreements.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there won't be any ash component ash sale component? I don't believe so.
Bill is that correct? There might be an opportunity Dan at Prairie States now.
Both those plants are online but not fully commercial.
So they will continue to grow through the end of the June quarter from a revenue basis.
But if those plants both are up and operating they just started coming up in the December quarter.
So we have the agreement to market the ash like out of Prairie State that's part of our agreement.
We -- because it's a brand new facility we still need to verify the quality of the ash.
And as Bill said there may be an opportunity there depending on how the production of the ash proceeds.
Operator we're hitting up against our one hour time allotment.
So let's go ahead and just take one more questions.
Our final question comes from the line of Chris Cook with Sashaf [ph] Associates.
I just had a quick question on capital spending.
It looks like cap spending for fiscal 2011 was $27 million.
I was curious as to what cap spending was in the first quarter as well as what your expectations are for the full year? Our cap spending -- this is Don Newman.
Our cap spending was roughly $6.5 million for Q1.
We expect our full year CapEx to be in the $26 million to $27 million range.
And interest expense I assume is going to be in -- the cash interest expense should be around the $38 million range? Something that range.
Yes that's about right.
And what about your cash..
By the way our run rate interest expense is in the $36 million range.
And I'm sorry I interrupted.
Yes the cash tax liability in 2012.
Yes cash tax about $2 million of expense.
We'll go ahead and conclude our call then.
Thank you for joining us.
Ladies and gentlemen this conclude the Headwaters' Inc.
first quarter conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Headwaters Incorporated Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today Thursday April 26 2012.
And I would now like to turn the conference over to Tricia Ross of Financial Profiles.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Headwaters Incorporated Second Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
There are slides accompanying today's presentation that can be found on the webcast link at Headwaters Incorporated under the Investor Relations section of Conferences and Presentations.
Please go there to follow along with the slides.
Should you have any trouble accessing the slides please contact me at (310) 478-2700.
I would now like to turn the call over to Sharon Madden Vice President of Investor Relations at Headwaters.
Thank you Trisha.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us as we report Headwaters' fiscal 2012 Q2 results.
Kirk Benson Headwaters' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Don Newman Headwaters' Chief Financial Officer will be conducting this morning's call along with Bill Gehrmann President of Headwaters Resources and Heavy Construction Materials segment; and Dave Ulmer President of Tapco International.
Before we get started on this morning's call please remember that certain statements made during the call including statements relating to our expected future business and financial performance may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 both as amended.
Forward-looking statements by their very nature address matters that are to different degrees uncertain.
These uncertainties are described in more detail in Headwaters' annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
You may find Headwaters' annual report on Form 10-K quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings readily available from the SEC's website -- Headwaters' website or directly from the company.
I'll now turn the call over to Kirk Benson.
Kirk? Thank you Sharon.
We're happy to report that we experienced our strongest March quarter since March 2007.
Revenue increased 15% year-over-year and gross margin increased by 570 basis points to 24.3%.
Operating expenses were held in check and actually decreased by about 11% after adjusting for nonroutine expenses and approximately $3 million of expenses such as cash-paid SARs that are tied to increases in the stock price.
Adjusted EBITDA increased nearly 380% year-over-year with both improvement in light building products and heavy construction materials.
For the first 6 months of the year adjusted EBITDA doubled compared to last year.
Trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA is up 21% to $94 million which is on the upper end of our forecast for the year.
Multiple trends drove this improved performance in the quarter year-over-year.
First revenue growth of [ph] 15%.
We added key new customers to our distribution system.
We had new coal combustion service projects that came online and started to produce revenues.
Our end markets improved in both building products and fly ash sales.
We also experienced strong growth in some of our newer products like roofing and specialty siding.
And  warmer weather warmer than usual winter weather favored construction activity.
The second thing that happened in the quarter is that our restructuring plan that we implemented as part of our continuous improvement culture is starting to show benefits that flow through the P&amp;L resulting in improvements to gross margins and lower operating expenses.
After adjusting for the increase in expenses attributable to an increase in our stock price on an apples-to-apples basis our total operating expenses declined by approximately 11% as I previously noted.
We're pleased with the overall improvements in our efficiency.
It's certainly gratifying to see the positive impact that operating leverage has on free cash flow and adjusted EBITDA.
15% [ph] growth in the top line resulted in a 380% increase in adjusted EBITDA as we maintained some of the highest contribution margins in the industry.
We are managing our variable costs as well as fixed costs and the positive leverage [indiscernible] result.
Although we see continued benefits from improved efficiencies throughout the remainder of the year we will experience an increase in incentive compensation in the second half of the year compared to last year based on our performance for the full year.
We recognize incentive compensation expense based on growth in operating income and free cash flow.
We anticipate that the incentive compensations will make SG&amp;A year-over-year comparisons unfavorable in the second half of the year because we paid very little almost no incentive compensation last year.
However due to the strong link between pay and performance in our plant structures our incentive compensation will increase in 2012 because of the increase in operating income and free cash flow.
We are tracking ahead of the midpoint of our plan for the year.
Last quarter we indicated that our trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA would be higher than the midpoint of our suggested range.
Today our guidance would be that we have an excellent opportunity to finish the year at the upper end of our range.
We considered raising guidance but most of our revenue and earnings occurred in the second half of the year.
So we felt it was prudent to wait until we had experienced operating results in the early summer months before adjusting guidance.
So our trailing 12-month EBITDA is on track to achieve our guidance range of $85 million to $95 million and we'll look at guidance again at the end of the June quarter.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Don Newman for a discussion of the quarterly financial results.
Thank you Kirk.
And thank you for joining us this morning.
Before discussing Slide 3 I wanted to mention that we intend to file our Form 10-Q next week.
My comments today will be directed to the slides that were sent out this morning and to a lesser extent the condensed consolidated balance sheets and statements of operations that were attached to the press release.
Starting with Slide 3.
Our second quarter revenue from continuing operations is $130 million a 15% increase from the prior year revenue of $113 million.
Second quarter adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations is $12.5 million a 380 basis points -- or excuse me a 380% increase from prior year EBITDA of $2.6 million.
Our year-to-date revenue from continuing operations is $267 million an $18 million increase from the prior-year revenue of $249 million.
Year-to-date adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations is $32.9 million more than double the prior year's EBITDA of $16.3 million.
Our margins expanded significantly year-over-year as a result of the improved revenue as well as cost improvements in raw materials facilities and labor.
Our gross margins for the quarter increased 570 basis points and adjusted EBITDA margins increased 730 basis points.
Year-to-date our gross margins increased 350 basis points and adjusted EBITDA margins increased 580 basis points.
Let's move on to Slide 4 for a closer look at the quarter's financial results.
Revenue from continuing operations in Q2 increased $16 million or 15% year-over-year to approximately $130 million.
Light building products siding sales increased nearly $12 million or 19% largely due to higher volumes and to increases in average sales prices.
Heavy construction materials revenue also increased year-over-year with sales up more than $6 million or 14% from 2011 levels due to higher sales in the central and west regions and to improved sites service revenue.
Q2 gross profits increased 50% year-over-year from $21.1 million to $31.6 million driven by the higher revenue and our cost to actions.
Q2 SG&amp;A dropped $15 million year-over-year largely due to legal reserve that was recorded in 2011 related to the Boynton litigation.
Q2 adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations totaled $12.5 million which represents more than a four-fold increase from adjusted EBITDA of $2.6 million in 2011.
The nearly $10 million improvement reflects improved revenue as well as our cost actions.
The year-over-year decrease in interest expense largely reflects a $69 million charge taken in 2011 related to the refinancing of our senior secured debt.
Debt repayments and the 2011 senior secured -- senior debt refinancing have enabled us to reduce our cash interest cost by approximately $12 million to roughly $36 million.
Discontinued operations reflect the results for coal cleaning.
In fiscal 2011 we recorded a $37 million impairment charge.
We continue to work on improving our operational results and making operational changes to the plants to improve cash performance while the sales process continues.
Dave Bill and Kirk will talk about these dynamics in their presentations.
Now let's move to Slide 5 and let's talk about the year-to-date financial results.
Year-to-date revenue from continuing operations increased more than $18 million year-over-year to approximately $267 million which reflects our strong Q2 results.
Light building products siding sales increased $15 million or 12% largely due to higher volumes and to increases in average sales prices.
Heavy construction materials sales were up more than $6 million from 2011 levels due to higher sales in the central and west regions and improved site service revenue offset by lower sales in the Eastern U.S.
Energy sales were down $3 million year-over-year largely due to a customer turnaround in Q1 and to the timing of Q2 product shipments this year.
Year-to-date gross profit increased 25% year-over-year from $53 million to $66 million and that was driven by higher revenue and our cost actions.
SG&amp;A dropped approximately $18 million year-over-year due to the $15 million Boynton legal reserve recorded in 2011 as well as to our cost actions.
Year-to-date adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations totaled $33 million which is more than double the $16 million of adjusted EBITDA in 2011.
The nearly $17 million improvement reflects improved Q2 revenue as well as cost reductions.
The year-over-year decrease in interest expense largely reflects the charges taken related to the 2011 refinancing of senior secured debt and to our debt repayments.
For coal cleaning as noted in fiscal 2011 we recorded a $37 million impairment charge.
And in 2012 approximately $5 million of the current year loss relates to non-cash charges largely related to reclamation obligation charges booked in Q1.
Let's move to Slide 6 and spend a few minutes talking about our debt.
Our debt position has continued to improve over the past 3 quarters as we have increased our trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA from a low point of $74.5 million in the June 2011 quarter to $94.3 million in the current quarter.
We closed the quarter with a net-debt-to-adjusted-EBITDA ratio of 4.9:1 after reaching a high point of 6.7:1 in the June 2011 quarter.
We've repaid nearly $20 million of our subordinated debt in 2012 including $12 million in the second quarter.
That leaves approximately $123 million of subordinated debt outstanding including $9 million of 16% notes which can be called at par this June.
Starting on Slide 7 Dave will talk about light building products.
Thanks Scott and good morning everybody.
As you can see on Slide 7 revenues from our light building products segment in the second quarter were $74.3 million an increase of $11.6 million or 19% compared to the March quarter last year.
The 19% boost in revenue was the largest year-over-year quarterly growth rate since March of 2006.
The strong growth came from our siding and architectural stone product groups.
Year-to-date revenues in this segment have increased 12% over the first 6 months of last year.
According to the Census Bureau non-seasonally adjusted single-family housing starts for the quarter ended March 31 2012 were 17% higher than the housing starts for the quarter ended March 31 2011.
We are optimistic that we will see revenue increases into the June quarter.
That being said it is still to be determined how much of the 12% year-to-date revenue growth is pulled forward because of the mild winter versus improved market conditions.
However April sales are trending above last year.
We continue to see improved gross profit margins.
For the quarter margins were 27% up from 17% in the 2011 second quarter.
The improvement was a result of our continuous improvement strategy restructuring initiatives implemented in the second half of fiscal 2011 and price increases to counteract increasing commodity prices.
We anticipate that polypropylene and cement cost will increase over the second half of the year.
Adjusted EBITDA increased to $11.7 million for the quarter versus $2 million in the second quarter of 2011.
The large $9.7 million increase in adjusted EBITDA on $11.6 million in revenue growth was due to restructuring initiatives and a decline in our SG&amp;A costs.
Adjusted EBITDA for light building products has increased by $14.4 million to $23 million for the first half of fiscal 2012.
We are pleased that we've made significant progress in the year but we continue to look for ways to improve operating efficiencies.
The architectural stone group has initiated its re-brand strategy to better serve the market to minimize channel conflict and to best utilize its SG&amp;A structure.
Benefits are beginning to be realized from this approach.
We have attracted new customers which should lead to an expansion of our market share.
For our block business the foundation products continue to run at all-time high levels due to the dry conditions in the Texas market.
We have started production of our new polished block product and have delivered to our first jobs.
Expanding our block business with lows by getting additional SKUs into the product offering has also benefited sales.
In the siding group we continue to work closely with our existing vendors and new vendors to control our input costs.
Now turning to Slide 8.
As already discussed you can see that the second quarter was better than last year in both revenue and adjusted EBITDA.
Now I'll turn the presentation over to Bill.
Thanks Dave and good morning everyone.
On Slides 9 and 10 you can see the revenue for the March 2012 quarter in our coal combustion products business with $51.2 million compared to $45.1 million for the March 2011 quarter resulting in a 14% year-over-year increase.
Overall product revenues for the March 2012 quarter were up 12% over the March 2011 quarter.
The west region posted a positive year-over-year volume and revenue increase for the second quarter in a row continuing signs that we may be nearer at the bottom of the California market.
Headwaters' plant services provide site services to many of its utility client.
These services include constructing and managing landfill operations operating and maintaining material handling systems and equipment maintenance.
Site service revenue for the March 2012 quarter was up 18% compared to the March 2011 quarter.
Prairie State and Virginia City 2 new long-term contracts continue to ramp up their operations contributing to the increase in site service revenue.
Site service revenue accounted for 33% of our overall revenue for the quarter.
While these services typically have lower operating margins than our product sales they are not as seasonal.
As construction activity increases in the June and September quarters and product revenues expand site service revenue will be a lower percentage of our overall revenue.
Gross profit for the March 2012 quarter increased by 30% to $9.9 million compared to $7.6 million for the March 2011 quarter.
Gross profit margin increased 240 basis points year-over-year driven by improved product sales sales mix and our continuous improvement efforts.
The adjusted EBITDA for the March 2012 quarter increased by 64% to $6.4 million compared to $3.9 million for the March 2011 quarter.
The adjusted EBITDA margin increased 380 basis points year-over-year.
Operating leverage combined with our ongoing continuous improvement efforts is evident as revenue growth of 14% resulted in adjusted EBITDA growth of 64%.
Moving to Slide 11.
As we mentioned on the previous call on October 14 the U.S.
House of Representatives passed legislation designed to protect fly ash beneficial use and strengthen coal ash disposal regulation.
HR 2273 the Coal Residuals Reuse and Management Act was approved by a bipartisan vote of 267 to 144.
Less than a week later a group of 5 Democrats and 5 Republicans filed a comparable bill in the United States Senate.
Supporters of Senate Bill 1751 continue to seek additional sponsors and recent discussions that are focused on amendments that may garner more democratic support.
These bills provide a rational balanced approach to managing the disposal of coal combustion products and are supported by a wide range of stakeholders.
On April 18 the House of Representatives added HR 2273 as an amendment to the Surface Transportation Extension Act.
The House Transportation Extension which would extend fundings for the Federal Highway Trust Fund through September is the House's response to the Senate transportation bill.
The House's Surface Transportation Act Extension will now go to conference with the Senate.
The EPA is conducting a risk evaluation of encapsulated beneficial use of coal ash and it was initially announced that the study would be concluded this month although that date appears to be slipping.
Upon completion of the risk evaluation we anticipate that the EPA will confirm its long-term support for the environmental benefit associated with the use of fly ash as a substitute for Portland cement.
Low natural gas prices and EPA regulation have combined to force both the temporary and long-term shutdown of several coal-fired power plant impacting the supply of coal combustion products in some margins.
However our multiple sources of supply and broad distribution system allow us to backfill supply in market where supply has been impacted.
As a result we believe that opportunities exist for us to increase market share and fare better than our competitors in the current regulatory environment.
I'll now turn the call back to Kirk Benson for comments on the energy technology segment.
Thanks Bill.
As you can see on Slide 12 the energy technology segment consists primarily of revenue from the sale of our HCAT technology.
There is some revenue from other technology such as the development agreement that we have in place to work on upgrading coal to metallurgical standards.
But our outlook in the segment is now focused on HCAT.
Revenues were $4.1 million compared to $5.4 million in 2011.
Primary reason for the change were a slight decline in consumption by one of our customers and the timing of shipments and refinery turnaround.
Our customers continue to be pleased with HCAT's technical results.
Adjusted EBITDA on revenue of $4.1 million was a positive $0.2 million.
We continue to work with additional refineries to sell our HCAT technology.
Slide 13 shows the year-over-year comparisons in revenue and EBITDA.
Fixed cost has been stable over the last year and we anticipate advances in free cash flow in addition to customer sales.
On Slide 14 we'd like to reiterate the continuation of our guidance in the $85 million to $95 million range.
Last year we had a very poor April as winter weather continued into May and the construction season ramped up slowly.
So far this year sales are tracking ahead of last year and slightly better than our plan.
We will update the market after our June quarter on guidance for the rest of the year.
I'd now like to turn the time back over to the operator for the question-and-answer period.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Trey Grooms with Stephens Incorporated.
Research Division</strong> This is actually B.G.
Dickey sitting in for Trey.
I have a question.
Last quarter I believe you guys talked about some of the success stories related to distribution in light building products and picking up some market share there.
And again you mentioned in your prepared comments again today.
Just wanted to know if you could give us some more color there? Is this incremental to the wins you announced last quarter? Or are we just seeing kind of a ramp-up of those wins? Or both? It's a little bit of both.
So we did have some new customers come online last quarter.
They are now starting to ramp up.
But for example in our stone product group we continue to see acceptance of the idea of being able to segment the market into different price points and our ability to provide those products into the marketplace is being well received and we are continuing to gain customer acceptance and expand our markets.
Dave why don't you comment a little bit on the siding part of the business relative to customers and market share? I mean the answer really is a little bit of both.
We had some new customer wins.
As Kirk talked about last quarter we're now finding that some of those wins that where we got initial orders they're now reordering product and then we have picked up a couple additional customers as we get into the spring primarily on our siding and our roofing line.
To complete the specialty siding product has been a really good success story for us.
So we're starting to get -- we think that we've got a product there that has some competitive advantages and is pretty easily distinguished from a competitive product.
And that's one of the places that we've seen some growth that outpaces growth in the end markets which means that we're getting some market share.
And so we feel pretty good about that.
Research Division</strong> And then to go back to this -- the weather issue obviously -- and you guys commented in the prepared comments that it was a factor in the quarter but it's difficult to kind of quantify the impact there.
But if kind of looking out how concerned are you if any related to the kind of pull-forward demand effect that maybe taking place here? Said differently what level of visibility do you have in your various businesses and given that visibility is the fundamental demand still there if we look out a month or 2 or kind of what you're seeing right now? One of the things as we went through the March quarter we were quite concerned that a fair amount of our increased revenue was because of the warmer winter weather.
And of course -- so what we thought would have happened is that the sales in April would have been negatively impacted if there was a significant amount of our revenue brought forward into the March quarter.
What we're seeing now that we're into -- I think we're at about 17 days or so of April from business days and what we're seeing is a couple of things.
One is that from a pricing perspective or if you look at it on like on daily sales our daily sales are up over last year.
And so it's -- that's a very positive indication that there has been improvement in our end market.
And so we think that the warmer winter weather had less of an impact than what we originally thought as we were going through the quarter.
And the reason for that is that April sales on a daily basis are tracking positive to last year and our backlog continues to be -- our backlog actually has gone up a little bit because of the increased sales.
So we're feeling pretty good about it.
Research Division</strong> So in the light building products is it just still I guess repair remodel that's driving that? Or are you seeing an uptick in some of the newest markets? I think that that having a positive impact on -- Dave you want to add a little color to that question? I think that the remodel business is certainly -- for us it's going to be the driver that pulls us out.
But I also think that there are -- there is new construction activity that is starting that wasn't there last year and the new homes are up year-over-year.
I think the trend is that they're building smaller homes but none just the same there are new housing starts that weren't there last year.
But remodeling seems to be the lion's share of it.
And if you look at our siding business is more oriented towards remodeling than our stone product group.
And if you look at daily sales again our stone group is also showing positive year-over-year daily sales comparisons and their orientation is towards new residential construction and less in remodeling.
So I think we're starting to see a little bit of positive impact both from remodeling as well as the residential construction.
There is -- the other thing that's positive is that we did have a poor April last year as I've mentioned.
And so one of the things that we were concerned about is we could have a positive year-over-year comparison compared to last year.
But when we produced our operating plan for the year we anticipated a normalized April.
And our sales are tracking positive to our plan as well as positive to last year.
So it gives us another indication that the pull-forward into the March quarter which I'm sure happened -- I think that we clearly had a better March quarter with mild weather than we would have had had it been extreme winter weather.
Nevertheless there have been improvements in our end market.
Our next question comes from the line of John Quealy with Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> To go back to the Light side for a minute if we could.
When we look at correlations with new home starts again given what you just said in response to the last question.
Is there any lag here Kirk just based on your materials? I imagine lumber and windows go in 3 to 4 weeks earlier on a new home than some of the stone as the exterior gets finished up and the keys get turned over.
Is there any lag factor here? Or do you think it's pretty good correlation in real time for your business in Light? Generally we think that there is a lag.
And when -- we have fought and we haven't had an internal discussion on the subject of the lag.
But in prior when we have talked about it internally before we thought that the lag was probably in the range of 3 to 4 months lag because a lot of our products do come towards the end of the construction.
And so there is probably some lag.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then switching gears on Heavy.
In terms of supply constraints obviously we're hearing a lot vis-a-vis spark spreads and EPA mandates and things like that.
You gave us a good update at the Analyst Day but can you just remind us has anything materially changed? Had your outlook changed on sourcing? Does it impact margins in this year at all? Or are you still feeling comfortable there? So I'll answer first Bill and then you follow on.
But I do think that we're clearly in a difficult environment from the perspective of natural gas prices and the EPA.
So the EPA is continuing to roll out regulations that have a negative impact on the -- on coal-fired production.
And that is resulting in plants either having to retool and improve their air quality processing and equipment or for some of the older facilities and smaller facilities they shut down permanently.
So a lot of the older facilities don't produce high quality fly ash.
And so when some of those older facilities shut down it doesn't necessarily have a negative impact on the high quality fly ash that we can use as a replacement for Portland cement.
But it -- but what is happening is it's causing some dislocations in the marketplace.
And the positive thing about our position is because of our market share and our distribution system with our terminals in place and the wide variety of sources that we have so far we've been able to backfill pretty effectively.
I think Bill has done -- and his team have done an excellent job of ensuring that we can supply high quality fly ash to the concrete and -- ready mix and concrete users and keep them supplied with the high-quality ash.
There is no question however that the EPA has had a negative impact on the recycling of ash.
Bill why don't you add some additional color to that because it's a very important point? Sure.
And as we've talked about before probably at this point one of the biggest impacts that we started to see especially in regards to natural gas was last year in the Northeast.
We made some changes last year and obviously we've had a year to take a look at what we could do moving into the future.
With that being said we feel comfortable with the supply we've got in our Great Lakes area.
We've got enough supply to backfill into the Northeast.
And with that being said we are just in the final processes of opening up 2 new terminals in the Northeast.
It will be third by rail to backfill supply that we do have located in the Northeast.
Near-term over the last couple of months we had some supply issues along the Gulf Coast.
Some was related to natural gas a large piece of that was actually nothing more than normal spring planned outages.
Typically in the South during the mild weather in the spring and fall is when utilities will take some of these larger-base loaded coal-fired units down.
Poor maintenance outages we have seen a little of that with some of the milder weather.
Some of these outages have been extended a week or 2.
We have had the supply to reallocate and meet the market needs.
It has impacted margins in the near-term a little bit as we might have incurred a little more transportation cost for getting the supply into the market than what we normally would have done.
But as we move into the next 2 or 3 weeks we'll see these larger units come back up out of outages and we feel very comfortable with that supply.
We've also had some opportunities outside of markets where we've typically been in or we've had our competitors have similar issues without the excess supply in their systems the backfill where they've been impacted.
And we're trying to take every opportunity possible to move into those markets move with our supply and try to gain some more markets there.
Research Division</strong> And my last question in terms of the incentive comp I think that last year in the back half of '11 you guys did about $47 million in SG&amp;A assuming that the charge gets in there.
Can you just give us a scaled materiality of how much more we should be looking for in the back half of '12 for that? Yes.
As from an SG&amp;A perspective and then I'll have Don comment on this as well.
But our fixed SG&amp;A we should probably be flat or trending down just a little bit.
We put our restructuring plan in place in 2011.
We had a little bit of benefit of that I believe in the 9/30 quarter of last year.
But when we get to the 9/30 quarter of this year we'll be comparing to the 9/30/11 where we did have some benefit the benefits weren't of course all in place.
But you've got a little bit of benefits occurred in the 9/30 quarter of last year so that comparable will be a little bit tighter in 9/30 this year although those cost-saving should be greater than last year's run rate.
On the variable cost side we could -- we got several different variable costs going on.
One that impacts us is that we have some cash-based SARs.
That number is in the quarter I think our expense in our SG&amp;A that's tied to the stock price was right around $3 million.
And so that's one expense that I hope everybody on the phone buys our stock and drive that stock price up a bit which means that we'll have increased SG&amp;A.
But in any event that's a variable is difficult to predict because we don't know what's going to happen to the stock price and it's down on a mark-to-market basis.
We also have some increased expenses that are variable as it relates to commissions.
So in the quarter our commission expense was up probably in say $750 000 range not quite to $1 million.
As we -- as our sales increased  then you could rightly expect an increase in commission expense attached to those sales.
And then finally we've got some -- our incentive compensation last year was minimal and the incentive compensation this year will be -- will have an impact.
We're going to have incentive compensation.
Of course we don't know for sure how much that incentive compensation is going to be because it's tied to operating income performance and it's tied to free cash flow.
And so as you -- it's impacted by for example of cash-based SARs and becomes a bit of a computation because if cash-based SARs go up goes -- if the expense I'm sorry show that cash-based SARs goes up that drives down the other incentive compensation.
So we -- this variable compensation is something that clearly will have an impact in the second half of the year but it's something that is -- that would have to be estimated because there's sufficient variables going on that impacts what that variable comp will be.
So we would be reluctant to give you a set number because it really is a variable compensation.
I think Kirk you covered that quite well.
One thing we do expect is that that compensation will be higher in 2012 than it was in 2011.
The question is how much higher? But it is driven by good things right? It's driven by strong performance on the bottom line and it's also driven by good performance on the stock price which is good for our shareholders.
So in balance we think that although it's complicated and it will cost us some money at the same time it is part of an overall good.
Our next question comes from the line of Seth Yeager with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> In the LBP segment how much of that revenue increase was price versus volume? And if I back out the restructuring charges in the prior year it looks like incremental gross margins were around 35% or so.
I recall you previously talking about something closer to 40%.
Is that math off or what's a good run rate to use for that segment? Go ahead Don.
So I think the 40% that you're talking about is actually the contribution margin versus the gross margin.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And I think we're running pretty close to that so the contribution margins that rate.
So what makes it a little bit -- what makes it difficult to just do -- if you took our revenues in the light building products segment and used a 40% contribution margin.
You would get an estimate of the increase in EBITDA that you would expect from increased sales.
And that's holding pretty close to form.
So -- but the other thing that's going on of course is the reduction in our costs.
That's why we had a much higher increase in adjusted EBITDA than you would have expected just from the increase in sales.
And so you have those 2 things going on.
You have the increase in adjusted EBITDA from sales which is about in that 40% contribution margin range.
But then in addition to that you have the increase in adjusted EBITDA because we've lowered our cost structure.
And so those -- that's what's going on.
Relative -- what was the first part of your question? Inc.
Research Division</strong> In LBP the volume versus price dynamic.
David I'm happy to respond but David do you want to give that perspective at least from the siding side? Yes that's fine.
Really the way we see our increase right now is that the price to volume the pricing part of where we've been is roughly 35% to 40% of the increase that we've seen.
So we have seen fairly significant volume increases that are not tied to price increases.
And on the stone side of the business the pricing has held firm through the down cycle.
But their -- but the increase in revenue is almost entirely related to volume and not price.
And in our -- and of course our revenue in the block business was -- it's actually down a little bit.
So on the siding side if you're like 30% or 35% it's price oriented in total we're probably in the -- we're probably closer to 15% when you adjust for the volume and on the stone group.
So it's probably in the 20% range that is price and 80% is volume in the light building product's group in total.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then as it relates to the comments you made around the cost savings.
Just for the $9.1 million or so for the full year that you guys had anticipated.
How much of that has flown through so far? And what should we look for in the second half? It's generally coming through relatively flat although in maybe Q1 was $1.8 million Q2 would have been up to about $2.2 million.
We're working our way up with marginally more each quarter to that $9 million amount.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
That's helpful.
And then for the fly ash business.
Have you guys seen any nat gas switch over in Utah? I would think the PRB coal given its cost competitiveness would be sort of the last to be impacted by the lower nat gas prices.
I think we're getting -- our supplies in the Western regions have not been materially impacted by the low natural gas prices.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I know that you guys sell quite a bit of fly ash to California.
Do you have just like a rough sense of the percent of your sales that go into that state? Bill you might have to add to this.
But the Western region if it -- back in -- before the down cycle it was probably in about the 35% range and -- but it got -- it was impacted more by the down cycle.
It's probably in like the 20% range now in that range 20% 25%.
So Bill how accurate is that? That's probably fairly close.
We break it out by area where we do isolate northern California.
But off the top of my head I think that your numbers are definitely in the ballpark there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Appreciate it.
And then just the final ones here.
You guys have made if I recall some forward purchases on the resin.
I think you had mentioned in your prepared comments that you may have some price increases coming up.
Can you just talk about the price cost relationship in resin or is just the -- as well as an update on the sale of the coal cleaning business? Generally our material cost run about 30% of cost of goods sold.
And so -- but the material cost of course are broken out into not just polypropylene.
It's broader than that.
But you could use that as a general sense as to what kind of impact that could have.
Poly of course relates to the siding products not to the stone or to the block and so it of course has a lesser percentage on our overall cost of goods sold than 30%.
So I don't know Dave if you could.
I don't know if you have an estimate of the percentage relative to the siding products that Poly in particular impacts or if you have that number in your head? But go ahead and comment and add some color.
I don't have the specific number in front of me on it.
I'm not sure what I would add to what you said Kirk.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well I guess just as a follow-up.
Do you guys -- you've done a good job in the past of offsetting increases in resin.
Do you have plans to put out any price letters to offset any possible increases or do you feel comfortable right now where you're at that most of that should be offset? On that part we are very engaged in trying to ensure that we address resin price increases.
And so there's 2 general ways that we attempt to do that.
One is to have the price increase passed through into the marketplace.
And that -- when we're contemplating that we think not just of resin prices but also of other cost increases.
And then the other thing that we would do is look at other ways to change the mix of our raw materials or to change an effective recipe that you would use and to be more efficient with the use of those raw materials.
So our objective is to be able to offset those cost increases either through price increases or through changes in our manufacturing process.
So we are very much engaged to try to address those cost pressures as they occur.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just if you could give an update on the coal cleaning business.
And if there's anything to update there much.
I think the one thing is that we -- I guess dramatically is an okay word to use.
We did decrease the cost run significantly from the 12/31 quarter.
So we have been very actively engaged in managing the cost.
On the sales side we continue to negotiate and interact with potential buyers.
We've been saying that now for multiple quarters and it happens to continue to be factual as we move closer to getting some of these coal cleaning facilities sold.
I think that we have -- I would assess our current situation that we have made progress over the last quarter.
One of the decisions that we made coming out of the 12/31 quarter is that we would not look to sell all of the facilities to a single buyer.
What that decision did was it opened up multiple new buyers that we could then bring into the process.
And we've done that over the last 90 days and have been able to engage additional buyers in the process.
We obviously still don't have these facilities sold but we did make a lot of progress in reducing the run rate of the facilities and the carrying costs and we'll see some additional improvement I think in the normal operating expenses in the June quarter.
And I think we'll continue to make progress in getting these facilities sold and we still believe that relative to discontinued operations one of the commitments you make is that you get the facility sold in 12 months from that change to discontinued operations.
That continues to be our objective.
Our next question comes from the line of Philip Volpicelli with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> My question is with regards to cash.
If you do meet the high end of your target range of EBITDA at $95 million you should generate a significant amount of cash in the second half of the year.
And I was wondering beyond this calling the 15% note that you plan to do in June could you prioritize what you would do with that cash further acquisition? Would you pay down some of the 2.5% converts? Would you repurchase shares? Just give us some color there.
I think our first priority is to reduce debt.
And so the primary goal would be to use free cash flow to reduce the subordinated debt.
So first the 16% debt we currently intend to exercise our call and repay that debt.
Then what we are focused on will be the -- primarily will be the 2.5% debt that comes due in 2014.
And so that's what you should expect the bulk of our free cash flow to be applied towards.
The -- we will look at however opportunities where we could do small pack-on acquisitions.
When those opportunities occur that's something that we will be interested in doing.
We're not in the position from a balance sheet perspective to do a larger transaction but we feel pretty comfortable that we can do smaller transactions that would be adjacent to our core business and something that would be relatively a relatively low risk from an acquisition perspective.
And then the third use of capital would be our maintenance CapEx is probably in the $20 million range.
This year we're running around $25 million maybe a little bit more than that depends on timing to some degree.
But you've got a little bit of -- and of course coming up of free cash flow we back out CapEx.
But there is an opportunity for some room for -- because our maintenance CapEx is around 20% we budget it at around $25 million.
So there's some -- that $5 million of growth CapEx is something that we will look to how we spend that money in 2013.
So there may be an opportunity I mean we could theoretically drop our maintenance CapEx down to $20 million.
But on the other hand there could be some opportunities for some organic growth that would require some CapEx and that would be our third use of cash.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And the acquisitions the tuck-ins that you were mentioning Kirk those are mostly I think in the light building products? The acquisition opportunities? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I think that we would look at opportunities in either segment.
I think there may be more opportunities in light building products than there might exist in Heavy Construction Materials.
But in the right circumstances particularly if it had a positive synergy impact in the Heavy Construction Materials side if it was the right transaction we could potentially do something there as well.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Mannes with Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> First a quick question on the Heavy Construction Materials.
You gave sort of the price volume analysis on Light Building.
Can you do the same for Heavy Construction? How much of the revenue growth was price versus volume here? It is weighted towards volume on the Heavy side.
We're still getting some price increases but it is -- it has less of an impact in heavy than it does in light.
It's mostly volume.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second quick question on heavy.
Just so I understand.
In the past you've talked about maybe selling half of the usable flash you collect given demand.
With some reduction in usable flash is that still a 50% number given where ash production levels are? Or is that number maybe a little bit lower and maybe a little bit higher now? I mean you're selling more of what you're collecting given lower raw collection rates.
Yes.
I think generally and Bill you can add some color to this but generally I think that percentage is going to be higher just exactly what you just said.
I think it's absolutely correct.
It's obviously been higher near-term based on some of the natural gas issues we've seen.
But the regional teams have been quite successful in securing new supply.
So we continue to add a new supply that we haven't had.
So obviously we'd like to continue on and keep it in kind of at that 50-50 split.
LLC Research Division</strong> So you can still -- so you're still in this position where you can benefit as demand for some -- in ash improves.
You're not getting anywhere close to constrained yet? The answer to that question is absolutely.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay good.
Two more quick ones on the regulatory front.
With the lawsuit by both UN well Earth Justice as well.
What's sort of the time frame under which that plays out the lawsuit side? Because we can sort of watch what's going on in I guess in the House and the transportation bill.
What's going on legally? So a litigation can go on for a long time.
So we're not anticipating any quick settlement to the litigation.
In fact the EPA has indicated to us.
whereas -- one of the reasons that we filed was to make sure that we would have a seat at the table in case there was a settlement particularly with the environmental NGOs.
What has happened historically has been that the NGOs have filed a lawsuit.
I'm going to take a drink of water.
And maybe that will help.
In any event what's happened in the past is that the NGOs have -- they filed a lawsuit with the EPA.
And then there has been a favorable settlement between the NGOs and the EPA.
And that was the primary reason that we filed was to try to ensure that we would have a seat at the table and there wouldn't be a settlement that excluded recycling interest.
And that was weighted in favor of the environmental organization.
What the EPA has told us is that they don't intend to settle with the environmental organizations that they intend to fight this lawsuit.
And that would be fine with us and we're quite comfortable in that approach from the EPA.
What that means of course is that the litigation will be lengthened because at this point in time we don't anticipate an early or easy settlement with the EPA.
So it could go on for a long time bottom line.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just a last question.
You mentioned incentive comp.
I'm looking at the March quarter corporate EBITDA or our corporate operating income number being down being worse year-over-year and certainly worse than we've seen in the last few quarters.
Is that indicative that maybe accruals for incentive comp were already picking up this quarter? Or is that something else going on? It's primarily our cash-based SARs.
LLC Research Division</strong> And that occurred during the second quarter? Correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that level is that expected? You said part of that's going to be tied to the price of the stock.
So it would be fair to assume that maybe that level is going to continue to be at a -- a couple of million higher than last year.
It will be I think the stock price stayed flat then in the June quarter we wouldn't record any incremental expense.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
So it's basically it's mark-to-market.
We'll take our last question from the line of Joe Dawson [ph] with Bodel and Greek.
Looks like familiar stock prices and SG&amp;A is going to go up a little bit.
I got a question on you used the word backfill when you say that was with respect to the fly ash do you mean just shipping from regions where we have an excess of supply to regions where you have a shortage or you're dipping into inventory? No.
That's correct what you said was correct.
It's if you got one coal-fired plant that shuts down because of the EPA or because of natural gas prices we can ship to those customers that were previously supplied by that facility that shut down from another facility.
And that's what we mean by backfilling.
We're backfilling the supply that was shut down.
Okay.
And how did fly ash pricing look this last quarter versus the year ago? And I'm also curious if you're seeing strength in flash sales in any particular reason.
The most positive thing that we're seeing relative to regional sales is that the Western region which is basically like Utah Arizona Nevada Washington Oregon California the Western part of the United States.
Those sales are positive year-over-year.
Rather I mean the volume.
We're shipping more fly ash year-over-year and it's the last 2 quarters it's the first time in years that we had a positive year-over-year comparison.
And so that's positive.
We did as Bill indicated we'd picked up some new sources of supply in the middle part of the country and that has increased -- when you get past some of the normal turnaround with the utilities we'll have an increase in volume in the middle part of the country because we picked up additional source of supply which is another way of saying that is we think our market share may have increased a little bit.
And so that's all quite positive.
But from an end market perspective I think the most dramatic thing we're seeing is an improvement in the Western part of the United States.
On a pricing perspective we're probably in the range of 0.5% to 1% increase in pricing year-over-year.
And with that we will go ahead and end our call.
Thank you all for joining us today.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the Headwaters Inc.
Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
If you would like to listen to a replay of today's conference you can dial (303) 590-3030 or 1(800) 406-7325 and enter the access code of 453-2136 followed by the pound sign.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Headwaters Incorporated Q3 Fiscal Year 2012 Conference Call on the 31st of July 2012.
[Operator Instructions] I will now hand the conference over to your host Tricia Ross of Financial Profiles.
Please go ahead Madame.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Headwaters Incorporated third quarter 2012 conference call.
There are slides accompanying today's presentation that can be found on the webcast link at Headwaters Incorporated under the Investor Relations section of Events and Presentations.
Please go there to follow along with the slides.
Should you have any trouble accessing the slides please contact me at (310) 478-2700 or tross@finprofiles.com.
I would now like to turn the call over to Sharon Madden Vice President of Investor Relations at Headwaters.
Thank you Tricia.
Good morning and thank you for joining us as we report Headwaters' fiscal 2012 Q3 results.
Kirk Benson Headwaters' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Don Newman Headwaters' Chief Financial Officer will be conducting this morning's call; along with Bill Gehrmann who is President of Headwaters Resources and Heavy Construction Materials segment; and Murphy Lents President of Eldorado Stone.
Please remember that certain statements made during call including statements related to our expected future business and financial performance may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 both as amended.
Forward-looking statements by their very nature address matters that are to different degrees uncertain.
These uncertainties are described in more detail in Headwaters' annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
You can find Headwaters' annual report on Form 10-K quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings readily available from the SEC's website Headwaters' website or directly from the company.
I will now turn the call over to Kirk Benson.
Kirk? Thank you Sharon.
We continue to have an excellent year with adjusted EBITDA margin up 300 basis points year-to-date and up $16 million on the trailing 12 months basis comparing September 30 to June 30 a 22% improvement.
Importantly we forecasted our free cash flow for the current fiscal year from continuing operations should increase to approximately $30 million.
The improvements of free cash flow and stable liquidity levels have given us the opportunity to improve our capital structure by repaying $15.2 million of subordinated debt in the quarter and $34.7 million year-to-date.
Additionally we restructured approximately $50 million of our subordinated debt to a 2016 maturity instead of a 2014 maturity which aligns our maturity dates with the generation of free cash flow.
Today we have $58.6 million of debt due in 2014 with 2 cash flow cycles remaining of $30 million each but we have the current capacity to repay our debt as it matures.
We will look at making additional early debt repayments.
As our EBITDA and free cash flow have grown and we have reduced our debt our risk profile has substantially improved.
Debt to EBITDA has gone from 6.7% to 5% over the last year.
Performance in the quarter is consistent with the very positive improvements that we achieved in the first 2 quarters of the year.
Our SBU gross margins operating margins and adjusted EBITDA margins are all substantially better than last year.
However the improved performance in the current quarter is masked somewhat because we recorded approximately $5.5 million of incentive compensation in excess of normalized amounts.
Typically we target compensation in the range of the 50th percentile of peers.
Our consolidated adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was essentially flat to last year but this year absorbed over $5 million of incentive compensation that would not be expensed in a normal year.
The additional incentive compensation relates to increases in our stock price which has increased over 250% over the year to successfully achieving cost-saving targets greater than planned and improvements in our top line.
As we look forward to 2013 we will forecast normalized incentive compensation so we may have some benefit next year from lower SG&amp;A.
If we otherwise have a stable year.
As you know we have been pursuing the sale of our coal cleaning assets.
During the quarter we successfully closed the sale of one of the facilities.
We received $2 million at closing and have the potential of receiving an additional $3 million over the next 12 months and the total potential over $10 million.
We are negotiating the sale of additional facilities and expect to close those facilities before the end of the calendar year but due to the negative cold environment the sale of coal facilities has been more difficult than what we originally anticipated.
I'd now like to turn the time over to Don for a review of the financials.
Thank you Kirk.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Before discussing Slide 3 I wanted to mention that we intend to file our Form 10-Q later this week.
My comments today will be directed to the slides that were sent out this morning and to a lesser extent the condensed consolidated balance sheets and statements of operations that were attached to the press release.
Starting with Slide 3 our second quarter revenue from continuing operations was $175.6 million up $14.9 million or 9% from the prior year revenue of $160.7 million.
Second quarter adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $28.7 million an increase from prior year EBITDA of $28.5 million.
Under our pay-for-performance compensation philosophy elements of our compensation program are tied to the company stock and financial performance.
As a result of the strong stock performance and above target financial performance compensation expense in Q3 was $5.5 million higher than planned and exceeded 2011 levels.
Despite the additional expense the company continues to perform well and expects to post full year results in the mid-to-high end portion of our original EBITDA guidance range.
Our year-to-date revenue from continuing operations was $442.7 million up $33 million or 8% from the prior year revenue of $409 million.
Year-to-date adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $61.6 million up $16.8 million or 38% from the prior year's revenue of $44.8 million.
Our margins continue to improve year-over-year.
As a result of the improved revenues and restructuring efforts Q3 gross margins increased 240 basis points and EBITDA margins improved 170 basis points once adjusted for normalized compensation expense.
Year-to-date gross margins expanded 310 basis points as a result of the improved revenue as well as cost improvements in raw materials facilities and labor.
Let's move to Slide #4 for a closer look at the quarter's financial results.
Revenue from the continuing operations in Q3 increased $14.9 million or 9% year-over-year to $175.6 million.
Light building products revenue increased $5.5 million or 6% largely due to higher volumes and to increases in average sales prices.
Heavy construction materials revenue increased $12.3 million or 20% from 2011 levels due to higher sales in the Central and West regions and to improve site services revenue.
Q3 gross profit was $52.4 million an $8.4 million or 19% increase from the prior year gross profit of $44 million.
The increase was driven by the higher revenues as well as cost reductions.
Q3 SG&amp;A increase $7.1 million year-over-year largely due to increases in performance-based compensation including short- and long-term incentive programs.
Q3 adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations totaled $28.7 million which was slightly above prior year.
Current interest expense reflects approximately $5.2 million of charges that were related to early repayments and to extension of $49.8 million of debt maturities in 2016.
Discontinued operations reflect the results for coal cleaning.
We completed the sale of 1 of the coal cleaning plants during the quarter which generated sales proceeds of $2 million at close and could generate a further $8.4 million in proceeds through $2.4 million from the release of bond collateral $1 million related to a sales price contingency and up to $5 million in future production royalties.
Sales of the remaining 10 facilities continues to progress and we are hopeful to close further sales transactions this year.
During the quarter an impairment charge of $13 million was recorded bringing the remaining book value of all of the coal cleaning plants net of related liabilities to near $0.
We continue to make operational changes to the plans to improve cash performance while the sales process continues.
Exclusive of non-cash charges we decreased our quarterly loss from discontinued operations to $1.6 million in the third quarter of 2012 from $5.3 million in the first quarter and $2.3 million in the second quarter.
Now let's move to Slide 5 and let's talk about the year-to-date results.
Year-to-date revenue from continuing operations increased more than $33 million year-over-year to approximately $443 million.
Light building products sales increased $21 million or 9% due to higher volumes and to increases in average sales prices.
Heavy construction material sales were up more than $18 million from 2011 levels due to higher sales in the Central and West regions and improved site services revenue offset by lower sales in the Eastern U.S.
Energy sales were down $6 million year-over-year largely due to reduce usage as a result of customer turnaround.
Year-to-date gross profit increased 22% year-over-year from $97 million in 2011 to $118 million in 2012.
This is driven by higher revenue and cost-reduction initiatives.
Gross margins have also expanded increasing more than 300 basis points year-over-year.
SG&amp;A dropped approximately $11.4 million year-over-year.
This was due to the $15 million point and legal reserve recorded in 2011 as well as the cost actions taken.
And this was partially offset by higher compensation expense.
Year-to-date adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations totaled nearly $62 million which is a 37% increase from the $45 million of adjusted EBITDA in 2011.
The $17 million improvement reflects improved revenues as well as cost-reduction actions partially offset by the higher performance-related compensation.
The year-over-year decrease in interest expense largely reflects the charges taken related to refinancing our senior secured debt in 2011 and to debt repayments.
Let's move to Slide 6 and spend a few minutes discussing our debt.
Our debt position has continued to improve over the past 4 quarters as we have increased our trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA from a low point of $74.5 million in the June 2011 quarter to $94.5 million at the end of the current quarter.
We closed the quarter with a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 5.0:1 after reaching a high point of 6.7:1 in the June 2011 quarter.
During the quarter we completed a debt exchange for $49.8 million of 2.5% subordinated convertible senior unsecured notes that were scheduled to mature in February of 2014.
Those notes were exchanged for $49.8 million of subordinated convertible unsecured notes that will begin to work February of 2016.
The interest rate for the new notes is 8.75% and the conversion price for the new notes is $29.48 per share which is the same as the old notes.
The exchange creates a maturity of schedule that is more consistent with the cash generation of the business should end-market recoveries be delayed.
We have repaid nearly $35 million of our subordinated debt in 2012 including $15.2 million in the third quarter.
The 2012 debt repayments include $12.5 million of the 2.5% notes as well as the remaining $13 million of 14.75% notes and the remaining $9.2 million of our 16% notes.
In addition to our 7 5/8 senior secured debt maturing in 2019 we have subordinated debt of $108.4 million outstanding which includes $58.6 million of 2.5% notes maturing in 2014 and $49.8 million of 8.75% notes maturing in February 2016.
Starting on Slide 7 Murphy will cover Light building products.
Thanks Don.
Good morning everybody.
As you can see on Slide 7 revenues from our light building products segment in the second quarter grew $6 million to $97 million an increase of 6% compared to the June quarter last year.
The growth came from our siding and architectural stone product groups.
Year-to-date revenues in the segment have increased 9% over the first 9 months of last year.
We've been pleased with the strong performance during the mild winter hasn't reversed as the year progress.
Sales have continued to trend higher year-over-year and July's in line with the trend.
Gross profit margins improved 370 basis points year-over-year to 31% for the June quarter.
The progress is the result of our continuous improvement strategy restructuring initiatives implemented in the second half for fiscal 2011 and price increases counteracting increase in commodity pricing.
Adjusted EBITDA increased $20.7 million for the quarter growth of $4.1 million or 25% versus third quarter of 2011.
The improvement in adjusted EBITDA as a result of higher revenues restructuring initiatives and improvement in operating efficiencies.
Margins increased 320 basis points to 21.2% for the quarter the best adjusted EBITDA margin since 2007.
Adjusted EBITDA for light building products has increased by $18.4 million to $43.6 million for the first 9 months of fiscal 2012.
We're pleased that we made significant progress in the year but we continue to look for ways to improve the business.
The architectural stone group initiated it's pre-brand strategy to better serve the market minimize channel conflict and best utilize it's SG&amp;A structure.
Benefits are beginning to be realized as we attract new customers and increase market share.
In siding group with our newly reorganize manufacturing engineering team we continue to pursue cost reductions through process improvements.
In addition our sales team continues to identify and successfully convert new business especially with our specialty siding and roof and product lines.
Our block business retail and residential markets are showing improvement while slower school construction in the Texas market has dampened sales.
We continue to look for avenues for additional sales such as our new polished block product and expanding our block business into retail.
Slide 8 illustrates what we've already discussed improvements for each of the first 3 quarters in both revenue and adjusted EBITDA.
Now I'll turn the presentation over to Bill.
Thanks Murphy and good morning everyone.
On Slides 9 and 10 you can see the revenue for the June 2012 quarter in our coal combustion products business was $74.7 million compared to $62.4 million for the June 2011 quarter resulting in a 20% year-over-year increase.
The western region posted a positive year-over-year volume in revenue increase for the third quarter in a row continuing signs that the California market continues to improve.
In the central region we were awarded a long-term management agreement to manage over 1.4 million tons of coal combustion products a year including 900 000 tons of quality fly ash.
Headwaters' client services provide site services to many of our utility clients.
These services include constructing and managing landfill operations operating and maintaining material handling systems and equipment maintenance.
Prairie State and Virginia City 2 new long-term contracts continued to ramp their operations contributing to the increase in site service revenue.
In the quarter we also begin to provide long-term current site services at a new site where we will manage 600 000 tons of coal combustion products annually.
We were also awarded a site services agreement for our new plant in Arkansas.
Site service revenue accounted for 27% of our overall revenue for the quarter.
While these services typically have lower operating margins in our product sales they are not as seasonal.
As construction activity increases in the September quarter and product revenues expand site service revenue will be lower percentage of our overall revenue.
Gross profit for the June 2012 quarter increased by 31% to $19.8 million compared to $15.2 million for the June 2011 quarter.
Gross profit margin increased 220 basis points year-over-year driven by improved product sales the sales mix and our continuous improvement efforts.
Adjusted EBITDA for the June 2012 quarter increased 33% to $14.9 million compared to $11.2 million for the June 2011 quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 200 basis points year-over-year.
Operating leverage combined with our ongoing continuous improvement efforts is evident as revenue growth of 20% resulted in adjusted EBITDA growth of 33%.
Moving to Slide 11.
As we mentioned on the previous call on October 14 the U.S.
House of Representatives passed legislation designed to protect coal ash beneficial use and strengthen coal ash disposal regulation.
On April 18 the House voted to attach H.R.
2273 to the Surface Transportation Extension Act.
During the final week of negotiations between the House and Senate conferees H.R.
2273 was dropped from the transportation bill that was eventually passed.
During these negotiations significant bipartisan support incentive has been gaining for a legislative solution to coal ash disposal.
We are now looking for another vehicle in which to move it through Congress.
The EPA is conducting a risk evaluation of encapsulated beneficial use of coal ash.
It was initially announced that the study would be concluded in April and that date has continued to slip.
Upon completion of the risk evaluation we anticipate that the EPA will confirm that there are no environmental issues associated with the use of fly ash as a partial replacement for Portland cement and concrete.
Low natural gas prices and EPA regulations have combined to force both a temporary and long-term shutdown of several coal-fired power plants impacting the supply of coal combustion products in some markets.
However our multiple sources of supply and broad distribution system allow us to backfill supply in markets where supply has been impacted.
As a result we believe that opportunities exist for us to increase market share and fare better than our competitors in the current regulatory environment.
I'll now turn the call back to Kirk Benson for comments on our energy Technology segment.
Kirk? Thank you Bill.
As you can see on Slides 12 and 13 adjusted EBITDA from our HCAT business declined year-over-year by $2.3 million.
The decline primarily resulted from lower revenues caused by reduced usage of HCAT by our customers as they experience turnarounds in their refineries and needed less material.
There was also incentive compensation that was tied to overall consolidated performance and the energy segment benefited from those improvements.
Currently both of our heavy oil customers are operating and using high levels of HCAT.
We continue to have strong contribution margins and look forward to adding new customers to our portfolio.
Turning to Slide 14.
As we reported incentive compensation for the quarter was higher than budget due to performance and the increase in our stock price.
We anticipate the same type of occurrence in the fourth quarter because we book most of our incentive compensation split over the last 2 quarters of the fiscal year.
Accordingly we are leaving our guidance for the year in the range of $85 million to $95 million and expect to be above the midpoint of the range.
Even though we anticipate operating improvements in the fourth quarter the improvements will be masked by recording additional incentive compensation.
As we plan for 2013 we will continue to be conservative relative to our top line although the trends show improvement.
We are working on a number of new products product extensions and changes that could result in market share improvements resulting in improvements that are not tied directly to end market expansion so we expect continued growth to our top line.
We are starting 2 major improvement projects for 2013.
First the concerted effort to improve safety.
We already performed substantially better than industry averages but we believe that we can improve the safety environment for our workforce.
No one should go home from a day at work injured.
In addition to focusing on safety as a cultural value we have also reduced workers compensation cost by more than $1 million over the last couple of years.
Secondly we are -- we have been pretty successful improving efficiencies and reducing cost through the transition to a lean approached manufacturing.
But we have identified an opportunity to reinvigorate our continuous improvement activities and put us further along the path of improving margins at overall performance.
We anticipate gradual improvement in margins continuing into 2013.
Since the beginning of 2011 we have reduced the annual run rate interest expense from $59.2 million to $42.3 million.
And we have been able to control our CapEx to around $25 million which covers our maintenance safety and some growth CapEx.
The result of increasing margins on growing revenue combined with lower interest expense and continued control of CapEx positions Headwaters to be profitable next year for the first time since 2007.
We're very excited about the opportunity that we have to return to profitability.
I would now like to turn the call back to the operator for the question-and-answer period.
Thank you sir.
[Operator Instructions] And the first question comes from Trey Grooms.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
You guys had mentioned that light building products' volumes had continued to improve year-over-year and July has continued that trend.
I may have missed the commentary on the HCM business but can you talk about how that's trended in the quarter as well? And Bill can add some color to the comment.
But generally I think what we're seeing is some improved performance in the western region and that the western region was hurt the most in the downturn because of the Nevada Las Vegas markets the Arizona Phoenix market and California.
So those 3 markets were the most depressed across the country.
And what we're seeing is some stabilization in the Arizona and Las Vegas markets but I think that we've got an excellent opportunity to increase some market share in the Phoenix market as there's -- Bill alluded to the fact that as the natural gas prices and the EPA put pressure on coal-fired power plants we're seeing some of our competitors are being hurt more than we are and we have some market share opportunities.
So we think that there is an opportunity for growth there and generally the California market has improved we've had positive year-over-year comps for the last 3 quarters.
So that's been positive in July and the western region is continuing that kind of a trend.
In the central region we picked up some additional contracts and so that's provided us with incremental supply and an opportunity to allocate that supply to take advantage of market conditions.
I think the East has been a little bit softer but we've been able to make up for that with the strength in the essential in the western region.
So Bill why don't you add some color to that commentary if you will? Sure.
I think you covered all I would have to say about the West it moves  back across the country.
We did pick up a significant source of quality ash in the central region.
We're working to reallocate to take advantage of supply and maximize that.
In the upper part of the central region we've had a competitor that's experienced some supply issues over the last month.
So we're working to take advantage of that so there's some more opportunity there.
And as Kirk mentioned in the East there's some softness.
It's typically where I think the industry is seeing a majority of the supply issues.
We've experienced a few we're reallocating supply.
We've established in the last couple of months 2 new rail terminals in the Northeast to backfill some supply and we expect to see the results of that as we move forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
So on the light building products with that continuing to improve I guess sequential -- or year-over-year as we move through kind of the spring and into the summer months it sounds like -- I mean are you guys at all surprised by that continued improvement? I know that there was a lot of speculation early on in the year that favorable weather had really driven a lot of these and there was some concern that you could see a pause I guess kind of looking into the back of the year.
It doesn't look like that what you guys are seeing.
Is this kind of in line with your expectations or do you think there's just continued demand? You think there's market share gains? What do you think is driving that continued strength? Generally I think there was a little bit of surprise the way that the third quarter worked out.
It was not a surprise that we had a positive comparison in April and May because last year what happened is that winter was extended into May.
So we had a very poor April last year.
So it wasn't surprising that we exceeded last year's performance in April.
But then what happened last year is revenues spike in June and made up for some of the lower revenue in April and May.
So this year what happened is that we have a strong April and May but that strength continued into June and so the revenue in June actually exceeded the spiked revenue from last year.
That was a little bit of a pleasant surprise because -- and it does go to the strength of the end markets somewhat that even though we had that spike last year this year we had very solid revenue in June.
So if you look at the 3 groups the product grouping that is the softest is the Texas region with the block business.
That's primarily because of school construction and to some degree commercial construction.
And so that softness has tempered the segments' reported growth because we've had some declines year-over-year in that Texas market.
I think in the stone part of the business we're starting to see some positive results from the unification and coordination of our sales activities with our 3 brands as we segmented that market.
I think that was an important strategic decision that we made last year to unify our approach to the market and we're starting to see some growth in our customer base which basically relates to market share gains.
So and that to some degree that growth has overcome some of the softness that we've experienced in Europe.
So the domestic growth in our architectural stone business has overcome that softness in Europe.
We don't have -- I mean we have a probably -- Murphy you can chime in here -- but we're probably around 10% or less of Europeans sales.
So it's not huge.
Nevertheless the European impact has tempered the overall growth in our stone products and that's coming primarily from an improvement in end markets but also from some market share gains.
The siding product group has had some very strong growth in some of our new products that we've introduced.
For example our Inspire Roofing product has grown very well and our specialty siding products has grown very well.
And growth in those products -- that's basically market share is what's happening there as opposed to end market growth.
And so I think there's little bit of combination of end market improvement but we're also seeing some very strong growth in our new product offerings.
Murphy your shot at adding a little bit of color to that commentary if you would? Yes.
Well Kirk's right about the European business.
We started really seeing that business drop off I guess about halfway through the quarter.
But we've been fortunate that the domestic business has more than offset that weakness that Kirk's right it's about 10% of the -- a little less -- between 5% and 10% of the total stone sales.
But some parts of the country in the Midwest in the Northwest have all been doing quite well this year.
California has actually seen a reasonable resurgence in the last quarter as well.
So we've been happy and pleasantly surprised that the growth we've seen this year does not seem to be related to the warm weather which you're right we were somewhat concerned about that early on but we've done rather well in the last quarter and don't see any signs of that abating.
Research Division</strong> One last question then I'll hop back in queue.
Previously you're giving guidance of kind of cost savings of -- I believe it was $14 million over the next few years I guess through the end of '13.
Can you give us an update on kind of how to think about that and the timing of that '12 versus '13 and also kind of mix in light of the higher comp expense I guess this quarter and next.
Is that included in this kind of cost savings guidance that you've given us here? This is Donald.
I'll take a shot in answering that question.
Original discussion around cost savings was $14 million of cost savings and we were projecting to achieve $9 million of that in 2012 and see the remaining $5 million hit 2013.
We've actually had very some good experiences with our cost-cutting initiatives and we are ahead of plan in terms of -- not the $14 million but the timing of when that's going to hit the financials.
I'll be in a better position obviously to give you an answer on this when we get through Q4.
But my sense right now is that we'll probably end up seeing between $11 million and $12 million of the $14 million hit in 2012.
And so that's pulling a lot of the savings forward which we're pretty excited about.
And then we're still seeing a path to the $14 million but obviously there'll be less of a step-up in '13 versus '12 because we're achieving those savings faster than planned.
In terms of the interaction between those cost savings and the additional compensation expense.
I wouldn't point to an interchange.
There's the cost savings of $14 million that was an independent exercise from what we're seeing in terms of our compensation expense.
And we do see the compensation expense as something of a bit of an anomaly because when you look at 2012 and where we entered 2012 from a stock price standpoint we entered the year at about $1.40 $1.42 something in that neighborhood.
And so that low stock price in concert with our limited ability to issue pure equity as an incentive to the employees put us in a position where we needed to deliver instruments that would be cash settled.
And with that and with the low stock price we had to issue a higher-than-normal number of units in order to deliver market based compensation.
And so when you look at 2012 and you're thinking about 2013 2012 I think is an anomaly for a couple of reasons.
Number one is the number of units that were issued in 2012 because of the low initial stock price.
The impact that that number of units had in combination with the significant increase in our stock price.
Our stock was up upward of 300% year-to-date and so very very nice very strong performance but there is an impact on our comp expense because of that scenario.
When you think about 2013 2013 comp should be more normalized.
Our stock price will be higher we have greater capacity to issue pure equity-based compensation.
Which means that the sensitivity of our earnings in '13 to changes in stock price will be less than we saw in signed 2012.
Does that help some? Next question comes from out Al Kachalk from Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to start on HCM for a second here.
Can you help square up if you have additional supply of high-quality fly ash and yet not have a turn in the end market use? How you can drive the margins where they're going.
I'm just trying to appreciate a higher dollar level of service revenue marginally higher dollar level of product revenue yet the margins were extremely well.
And I know Bill and his team have done a great job on the cost side.
But if you could just help me understand.
We get 100 000 tons more ash we don't get the end-use probably absorbing that.
And I would thought that would've gone more to disposal than the product side.
A couple of things are important to note.
One is that our highest margins are in the western region.
And so even if you had exactly the same number of tons sold if the mix of those tons were weighted towards the western region you would have an improvement in margin.
So that's one of the things that's going on.
As I've indicated we've had 3 quarters in a row of positive year-over-year comps in the western region.
And so that's helping margins because of the mix of where the tons are sold.
A second comment would be that when you pick up a new supply source oftentimes what you're able to do -- not all the times but oftentimes what you're able to do is to be able to supply the local market or the regional market at a lower transportation cost.
And so when you pick up a new source supply that's very important for the business because in that local market or the regional market you can supply ash at a lower delivered cost which also has a positive impact on the margins.
And there's also just the impact of competition and the ability to increase your revenue because of the source the new source of supply that you picked up.
So Bill why don't you go ahead and add color to that too? Yes.
As Kirk alluded to Al it becomes a logistics issue.
Where we have picked up supply we've reallocated.
To take advantage obviously we sell the product at a delivered price.
So obviously we can minimize the transportation piece of that margins increase.
So as we pickup these new sources obviously that's the first exercise.
As we talked about some of the environmental impacts on the supply and also natural gas that allows us to look at opportunities to increase overall sales volumes with that.
With quality ash in the market we can drive some price increases based on superior quality versus some of the ashes in that market.
Then as we pick up some of these supplies we have a variety of contracts.
So we talk about -- you may have to dispose of it at some sites we get reimbursed for it.
So it's not -- obviously it's lower margin activity but it's not as big an impact as one would think.
That help out? Research Division</strong> That helps.
Have you reported or disclosed the volume sold in the quarter? Or if not the volume what the rate of change over -- you described the period whether it sequential or...
We use to do quarterly disclosure they stopped doing that.
We do an annual disclosure.
I think generally what the disclosure's going to be when we complete the fiscal quarter is we've had an increase in tons year-over-year.
Do you agree with that Bill? Yes.
I think where that becomes a little difficult Al is where do you draw a line or the distinction between quality ash total CCPs the other ashes produced.
So there's some gray area in there to do some year-over-year comp.
But yes as Kirk mentioned I think year-over-year we've seen volume increase.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I may just sneak one more in here on light building products.
Could you talk a little bit about maybe the pace of order pattern or the rate? And maybe what some of your customers or you're hearing from our customers either by channel et cetera.
Because it appears that while we started fast for this sector there does seem to be a little bit of deceleration.
And I'm just wondering where you're at on that particular segment given where you entered it in the third quarter.
And then directionally with that could you just comment about raw material inflation and/or any inflation headwinds you're anticipating? Murphy why don’t you go ahead and comment on the stone group then I'll follow-up with siding and block folks.
Yes Al the activity we're seeing in stone side of the business is pretty broad-based.
I mean I wouldn't attribute it 100% to the relatively modest increase in new housing starts.
I mean there is some of that but a lot of it had been remodeling and smaller sorts of jobs.
I mean we're seeing a few decent sized commercial jobs out there but it's really a pretty broad-based bunch of smaller things really which I find encouraging because it's not directly tied -- if housing starts to decelerate a little bit I don't think you're going to see that have an outside impact on what we're seeing out there.
I think it's more generalized widespread activity.
But small remodel jobs and that sort of thing is where more of it seems to be coming from.
And we are seeing some -- I do think that the little uptick in housing starts has helped I mean there's no doubt about it.
But it's not the whole story.
So we have not seen any deceleration in our numbers really through today going back to the winter.
I mean it's been pretty steady without any -- like I said without any -- there's no single thing that you can point to which is really driving it which I find encouraging.
Research Division</strong> Is there a change in the volume as to new start versus remodel? Your comments would seem to lend that you're seeing -- or the experience has been that you're seeing a little more from remodel than you are new starts.
I would say that's true that I would attribute more of it to things that are not directly tied to new housing starts.
And it's the same with the -- to some degree true in the siding product group because it's primarily repair and remodel.
So remember in our siding the product group it isn't as heavily influenced by new residential construction as it is by repair and remodel.
So some of the factors going on there is that you have all of these foreclosures and the turnover in homes and that builds up some demand on the repair and remodel side.
Now that demand of course has been tempered because of the high unemployment rates and the difficulty to get financing.
But the repair and remodel market has been more stable than the new residential construction and we see some improvements there.
But in addition to that on the siding side some of the newer products are where we're seeing outsized growth and what that means is that we're basically taking some market share.
In the specialty siding space there was 1 competitor that left that market and we picked up some share from that experience and we're picking up some share in the roofing product as well.
So we're seeing outsized growth that isn't tied to the end markets in those products.
That's basically more of a market share explanation than it is end markets where there's new residential construction or repair and remodel.
It's that those -- and the reason that that's happening is because we've made some product extensions.
We've changed.
We've added to our -- the portfolio of roofing products that we're selling.
So we've been pretty successful on those extensions that give us an opportunity to have growth in excess of what you expect from the end market.
So I mean that's very positive on that siding part of the business.
Again we're having issues in Texas with the construction of schools.
That's really hurts us quite a bit.
But on the other side in Texas we are picking up some additional sales through our retail channels and we're making some progress in selling some new products in that business.
We also completed a small acquisition in Baton Rouge which -- that's our first block manufacturing plant outside of the Texas market.
We understand the Louisiana market pretty well.
We were selling product into that market and on the last quarter we closed a small acquisition.
So we have our first foothold outside of Texas in that block business and we're encouraged by the opportunity to take our Texas business model.
And that Texas business model is -- the center of that is of course selling the block product but about 40% of our revenue comes from selling ancillary higher-margin products.
So what our strategy is is to take that successful business model and export that to the Louisiana market.
So the Louisiana sale it's not huge.
It's a fairly small foothold but what it does do is it gives us a platform to take our Texas business model and apply it in Louisiana.
So we're pretty interested to see how that geographic expansion works and how successful we are at taking our Texas model and putting it into an adjacent geography.
So by and large I think that the end markets of course are very important.
And you're absolutely right I think as we've listened to the other reports from peers there seems to be a little bit of concern about the end market growth.
Work as we've said July seems to be a solid month and so we're not seeing a pullback yet.
It certainly could happen in August and September.
We don't know yet of course but so far things are moving in a very solid matter for us.
And the next question comes from Philip Volpicelli from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> It's Phil Volpicelli from Deutsche Bank.
My question is with regard to the coal cleaning assets that you sold.
Did the person who -- or the entity that bought the assets are they the owner of the mine where the assets are located? And if so are they willing to by other coal cleaning plants? And then the second part to that would be what criteria would do you need to reach to be able to get the remaining $5 million of royalties? So the purchaser has a mineral interests that is adjacent to the coal cleaning facility.
And so as they're developing that mineral interest their intent is to use the coal cleaning facility to wash that coal.
And so I think we feel -- well it's also a metallurgical coal mining interest.
And so we think we've got a fairly good shot at being able to collect on those future royalties.
It is an excellent coal cleaning facility and there's also -- they have load-out capabilities to rail from that facility.
And so as they continue the development of their net coal assets we think that there's a good likelihood that we'll be able to receive the royalty payments.
So what has to happen is that they have to complete their mine development and then they start to wash that coal we get paid on a per ton basis.
So that the big risk of future royalty payments is their successful completion of their mine development.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And it sounds like from your comments Kirk that they will not be looking at other coal cleaning assets this is the only one.
Well one of the characteristics as the buyers are looking at these facilities is an entrepreneurial approach.
Now they were most interested in this Crocker [ph] facility that we sold.
But they're on our list of folks that we're talking to about -- at least 1 or 2 additional facilities so they could be a purchaser.
We don't know whether they will be or they won't be.
They could be a purchaser on some of the additional facilities.
We've been looking for people -- the purchasers need to have access to coal they need to have off the ability to do off-tick agreements and they had to have capital.
They have to have those 3 characteristics in order to be interested in buying these facilities and we've got a number of potential purchasers.
We're further along with some than we are with others and as we've indicated in the call we continue to be comfortable that we've got the ability to sell these facilities.
We did extend -- I don't know if anyone noticed.
We changed our goal from fiscal year-end to calendar year-end to give us a little more a little more room.
But we continue to make progress.
The one thing that I want to caution everybody about is each of these facilities are different and it would be inappropriate to extrapolate the value that we received or going to receive from the Crocker [ph] facility to the other facilities.
The environment is more difficult now in selling these facilities.
And like in some of the facilities they're going to have to be relocated and that relocation cost could range up to $5 million.
And so don't extrapolate from the 1 facility and multiply it by 10 to get an estimate of where we're going to end up on these other facilities.
It's going to be different because the circumstances of the facilities are different.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then Don with regards to the compensation expenses up about $5.5 million.
Should we expect a similar range for the fourth quarter? Or I guess what are the criteria that would drive that? So a couple of things come to mind.
First the stock price.
What you would expect to have is for every dollar change in stock price there would be a corresponding roughly $2.5 million impact on our expense.
That's a number that works for 2012.
It's not a number that'll work for 2013 but to give you a sense for Q4 keep that in mind.
Another thing to keep in mind is that deals with the stock price portion or the stock-sensitive portion of our compensation.
One of the drivers for Q4 will be our underlying performance with the business.
And so as the business continues to perform and hopefully it continues to perform well then we would see that impact come through.
As a general expectation what I would say is you should assume the comp expense we had shown $5.5 million above plan I would expect that to be potentially a couple of million dollars more in Q4.
In part because of the way that stock price impacts our compensation and also the fact that the way that we book our comp expense.
As Kirk said we booked the majority of it in the second half of the year.
And then when you think about Q3 versus Q4 a bit more of it is actually allocated to Q4 because of the relative performance of Q4.
It's one of our strongest quarters the strongest quarter in the year.
The final question comes from Adam Wyden from ADW Capital.
A Couple of questions for you.
On the compensation side again just so I understand.
Do you guys like grant the compensation based on the beginning stock price so it's an accrual and then basically it accretes over the course of the year? So for example if the stock went from $6 to $10 the compensation you already gave to people you'll have to record more expense in the fourth quarter because of that? Yes so 2 comments on that.
First is yes we grant -- the equity-based compensation is granted at the beginning of the fiscal year.
And so it's based upon stock price at the beginning of the year and then generally -- Sarbanes-Oxley on my mind.
A Black-Sholes valuation is done and you end up looking at compensation.
Now the thing that's going to be different between 2012 and 2013 is that we didn't have the capacity to make a market-based grants using stocks or SARS that are settled in stock versus SARS that are settled in cash.
So we had to use SARS sold in cash.
That is not our preference.
And so but the accounting between settling cash and settled in stock is different and you end up with this mark-to-market accounting if it's settled in cash.
When we make our grants for 2013 we'll be able to use SARS settled in stock and you won't have this variable accounting associated with 2013 SARS.
And so that's why Don used the word anomaly to describe what's happening in 2012 and we do consider it to be somewhat anomalous and although there'll be some of these that's still going to carryover the 2013 there'll be compensation and will be tied to stock price in 2013.
We don't anticipate that it will be it will have as significant of an impact as what it's having in the June and September quarters.
Right because in order of magnitude the stock isn't going to go up 400% next year.
We hope it does.
From your mouth to God's ears.
So to Kirks point if things unfold the way we expect that they will we will have fewer units that are tied to this mark-to-market accounting and so of course we would always love our stock price to go up because that's good for our shareholders but we won't see the effect of our expenses in the same magnitudes that we saw in 2012 because of the composition is just going to be different.
It's not actually cash either.
When you quote your adjusted EBITDA I mean you're deducting the stock -- you're deducting the incentive compensation which is settled in stock so from a cash flow standpoint you're actually getting that $11 million of cash flow to delever or repurchase notes or what have you right this is actually settled in stock right so? It's a matter of timing.
At some point in time the SARS settled in cash will be settled in cash.
But that probably that's not going to happen for several years more likely than not and so it depends on when people exercise the SARS and so as people book your 3-year vesting you are going to be -- take the 100% vested you are out at least 3 years and so the cash based SARS will be settled in cash but you're absolutely right from a timing perspective that's not going to be a cash expense in the near term.
But when you settled as these people vest they could just actually take stock.
It's treasury method.
So you can either take the amount of money that they've made in the stock over the course and you can pay them in cash and you can return the shares to treasury and you can actually give them the stock right.
On the cash-based SARS we will settle those cash-based SARS in cash.
And you guys record a liability for that or not.
Yes we accrued for that expense and you had pointed out correctly that when you look at our EBITDA adjustment schedule you do see some adjustments for equity based compensation.
That is different than the compensation that is cash settled that Kirk's talking about.
That is those equity settled are the instruments that we have used historically but because of having to issue more cash settled instruments this year we have this additional expense and this is this additional expense of the clear as well this additional expense was not recorded as an adjustment to our adjusted EBITDA.
It is in the expenses that is included in adjusted EBITDA and if someone were looking to normalize our 2012 results for this anomalous compensation you would that $5.5 million we disclosed then you would add it to the $28.7 million for the quarter and that would give you normalized you of what the business did.
I've actually wanted to use it but adjusted EBITDA but Don wouldn't let me do it.
And then also for your guidance for next year you guys have said that you been profitable.
Is that can you give us a little bit more color on kind of the trend on interest expense and the trend on D&amp;A that you're using for that.
Is that a pro forma profitability number or is that based on selling nonprofitable coal cleaning assets.
How do you think about that? I'm just trying to kind of reverse engineer how you're thinking about profitability on a net income basis baked in any additional housing starts or is that basically based on what you're seeing today as well like just from a housing starts standpoint.
If you use like $100 million of adjusted EBITDA and interest expense next year will be right in the neighborhood of $42 million and D&amp;A will be in the range of 53.
So that basically gives you about $95 million of deductions from adjusted EBITDA so the tax expense so pretax number would be around $5 million and tax expense is going to run around $2 million.
We won't have any federal taxes of course because we have NOL and credits but you'll end up with some state taxes so you've got you end up using the $100 million of adjusted EBITDA $42 million of interest expense.
Of that $42 million that's about 37 or so that's cash and there's $5 million of non-cash interest expense but the P&amp;L will show $42 million approximately of interest expense and then $53 million of depreciation amortization we get to a positive pretax line and then a couple of million dollars of tax and you end up having a profitable net income next year.
Now the one thing that could change that a little bit is if we bought back additional debt and so you had a quicker amortization of the that acquisition costs.
And so that $42 million that's assuming that we don't that basically the capital structure stays as it is.
But it's reasonably close to where we should end up and so you can see how we could very easily end up with net profit for the first year of 2007 next year.
We're actually very excited about that the trends and about our control of costs and the reduction in interest expense and where we think we can come up with from to be profitable next year.
If I just look at what you guys have done this year so far and I kind of reverse engineer the anomaly it seems like they're already ahead of that.
Just from a standpoint if you're in the case that if you are just the kind of normalize what you did in the 9 months this year or in the trailing 12 months and you normalized that for the incentive comp you're kind of already ahead of that.
So your guidance really doesn't imply any market share gains or I guess additional operational leverage from any of the segments or additional starts or anything like that.
It seems like you're already there.
You're already ahead of that I'm just trying to understand how you guys are thinking about that because the numbers seem to be trending in the right direction from that standpoint.
Even with schools the school building nationwide is supposed to increase in 2013 and '14 because of the new core standards that schools are introducing.
So I would think even that segment that's depressed now would come back pretty hard so I'm just trying to understand how you're thinking about this.
And we agree with the commentary you've just run through the analysis you've just run through.
I pick $100 million of adjusted EBITDA because that's an even number and you can do the math very easily from that.
I didn't do it from a perspective of guidance for next year but just to use that as an example of how realistic it is that we're going to be profitable next year and so we feel really good about it.
And hopefully as it turns out $100 million to be a conservative number for next year.
But I just pick that kind of as an easy number to subtract the interest expense and depreciation from to show that we anticipate to be profitable next year.
Previously had said like it incremental 100 000 housing starts would be about $20 million of revenue give or take on the light building products side and 50% contribution margin.
That's still you guys still believe that that statement holds water.
Is that right? The contribution margin on the light side.
I think it was 42% the contribution on the heavy is a little bit higher than that but it's in the ballpark yes.
We have it's one of the distinguishing features of Headwaters is the operating leverage that's associated with the business.
We have a very strong contribution margin.
So if you take if you look at the light building product segment use the 42% contribution margin that model is a good predictor of where of what we have done.
I just ran through that yesterday using that information that we've disclosed.
On the right side we're actually running a little bit ahead of where that model predicts.
On the heavy side we're running just a little bit behind where that model predicts but nevertheless I think between the two those models are reasonable predictors of how our performance through the first quarter.
Can you discuss kind of what the normalized housing start number that you've been working off? Just so we can have an apples-to-apples comparison for the light kind of the light side over the course of the year? Is it a 430 number a 400 number 455 100 and how do you think about kind of what you're working on is there lag and can you explain kind of the timing on that just it seems there's a tremendous amount of operating leverage we're almost at we can get to 800 000 housing starts pretty quickly and then you reverse engineer that and then substantially more EBITDA from the light side right? Yes.
There is we generally have been trying to be relatively conservative on what we use internally from 2006 through 2011 the market and everybody was disappointed at how steep this decline was and in staying at the bottom for '10 and toward '11 we're starting to see some improvement so we continue to be relatively conservative in what we predict.
Your comment though if they both 800 000 housing units and for total both single and multifamily construction that's going to have a very positive impact on our operating income as we take advantage of this high contribution margin they operating leverage.
And so we've run the business with that taking that into consideration into account because that continued to be a good predictive model.
And as I said I went through this I was looking at our shareholder presentation and I looked at those 2 slides to test whether or not that model was directionally accurate but fairly close in predicting our operating income and adjusted EBITDA performance-based upon changes in revenue.
And it continues to be of value in understanding Headwaters and ability to predict the impact that revenue changes revenue changes.
Now there's lots of things that go on change in mix and stuff like that and that occurs and these contribution margins that we're sharing with the market are clearly averages and so you can't take those averages and be absolutely certain that it's going to work every time because you're going to have a change in mix and we have different contribution margins on different product lines and so it's going to vary.
But through the first 3 quarters of this fiscal year it's been a very accurate predictive model of how we're going to perform so if the end markets improved we expect is operating leverage to generate outsized performance of the operating income and adjusted EBITDA levels of the company.
This is Don.
We ended last year I believe at 430 000 single-family starts and at this point we're at last summer I saw about 530 000 single-family starts on an annual adjusted basis.
And so as we look at the horizon we look at the business is that housing number holds.
So we run our business based upon what we can see and then we also have scenarios for growth.
But when we're talking about if you're asking hey what do we think 2013 is going to look like from our perspective we can see where there's been very mixed signals in terms of recovery we're running our business based upon the current levels that we see in the business and we are preparing for growth if that growth is there and we're very well prepared for it.
And we should be able to take advantage of it.
What order of magnitude you're number one in all of the markets.
Primarily on the light building products side and I think you guys are dominant in kind of servicing coal but in order of magnitude what do you think the scope of the opportunity is for market share gains in these segments marked in the kind of total potential market share and how much do think you can still over a longer period of time.
Let me respond to that question then share that we are near the end of our call.
So let me respond to that and then that will be the last question for the call.
But if you look at the I think we've got a very good opportunity in the architectural stone space to take market share.
So that market is more fragmented than some of the other areas that the compete.
And that's one of the challenges that I've shared with Murphy was to design a strategy that would result in increasing market share in that business.
And so I think we have had some positive market share gains and that's a place that we are focused strategically.
In deciding part of the business and some of our core products some of the legacy products where we have a 75% plus market share I think there's less opportunity there for market share growth.
And so.
You can increase price right so the overall scope the market you have pretty strong handle on the price there and the only market at 75% you can increase price pretty rigorously right? I think that's correct.
We've been successful at being able to raise price in that part of our business.
I think that our growth in some of the newer products as I mentioned on the call and siding products they were taking some market share and we're seeing some outsized growth clearly stronger growth than what the end markets would suggest and so that implies that we're having so market share gains.
Those the markets are especially in the roofing side very large so we're just getting started as far as the opportunity is concerned from of roofing perspective.
But I think we'll see some good there and the Texas markets I'm not sure you're going to see a lot of market share growth in block although that's why we're doing a geographical adjacency expansion and I think low season growth in some of the newer products there as well.
I think in the heavy construction materials base that the market the environment rather with the EPA and what's happening with natural gas prices has actually provided us with an opportunity for some market share gains in the heavy space so by and large it's a little bit of the next but I think we've got opportunities for market share growth.
We are I think we're going into 2013 actually feeling somewhat optimistic.
As Don said if the end markets are stable we should have a strong 2013.
We should actually do better than the end markets if we can make some progress in the stone and some of these newer siding products.
So I'll give the side back to Sharon and the operator.
Thank you.
With that we will go ahead and conclude the call.
Would like to thank you all for joining us today.
Goodbye.
This concludes today's presentation.
Thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q4 and Fiscal End 2012 Earnings Conference Call on the 6th of November 2012.
[Operator Instructions] I will now hand the conference call over to Tricia Ross of Financial Profiles.
Please go ahead madam.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us for the Headwaters Incorporated Fourth Quarter and Year End 2012 Conference Call.
Please note there are slides accompanying today's presentation that can be found on the webcast link at Headwaters Incorporated under the Investor Relations section of events and presentations.
Please go there to follow along with the slides.
Should you have any trouble accessing the slides please contact me at (310) 478-2700 or tross@finprofiles.com.
I would now like to turn the call over to Sharon Madden Vice President of Investor Relations at Headwaters.
Thank you Tricia.
Good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us as we report Headwaters fourth quarter fiscal 2012 year-end results.
Mr.
Kirk Benson Headwaters' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; along with Don Newman Headwaters' Chief Financial Officer will be conducting today's call.
Joining them will be Bill Gehrmann who is President of Headwaters Resources; and Murphy Lents who is President of Eldorado Stone.
Both will be reporting under individual business segments as we go forward with the call.
Before we get started on this morning's call please remember that certain statements made during the call including statements related to our expected future business and financial performance may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 both as amended.
Forward-looking statements by their very nature address matters that are to different degrees uncertain.
These uncertainties are described in more detail in Headwaters' annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
You can find Headwaters' annual report on Form 10-K quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings readily available from the SEC's website Headwaters' website or directly from the company.
I will now turn the call over to Kirk Benson.
Kirk? Thank you Sharon.
Thank you everybody for your attendance on Headwaters' year-end conference call.
I would like to begin by making some overall comments on our year from Slide 3 and Don Newman will comment on the financials followed by Murphy Lents discussing light building products and Bill Gehrmann discussing our heavy construction materials segment.
There were 3 themes of importance that dominated 2012.
First our new residential construction end markets began to show improvement compared to last year adding a little buoyancy to our top line and allowing us to take advantage of our strong operating leverage.
Second our restructuring efforts were very successful resulting in a lower cost structure and improved margins.
And third we are gaining market share in some of our key markets.
We experienced some notable achievements during 2012.
Our business segments have maintained a low variable cost profile at a contribution margin greater than 45% and both segments had adjusted EBITDA margins in the 20% range in the fourth quarter.
We continued to perform at the top quartile.
Adjusted EBITDA increased by over $12 million from 2011 but that includes $15.5 million in above-target performance-based compensation.
$12.3 million of the above-target compensation was tied directly to the stock price improvements that created $314 million increase in equity value.
Without the above target compensation adjusted EBITDA for the year would have increased over $28 million or 36%.
After adjustment for the portion of the above-target compensation that related to the fourth quarter which was approximately $10 million our earnings per share in the fourth quarter was $0.21 per share from continuing operations.
During the year we repaid $38.2 million of convertible debt and reduced our debt-to-EBITDA ratio from 6.7 in the June 2011 quarter to 4.9 at September 2012.
Our cash interest expense peaked to an annualized level of $47.9 million and is now $37.1 million representing an improvement of $10.8 million.
GAAP interest expense will be approximately $42 million in 2013.
Operating income improved from a negative $12.2 million in 2011 to almost $50 million positive operating income in 2012 after adjustment for above-target compensation.
In 2013 lower interest expense combined with improvements in operating income should result in our first net income from continuing operations since 2007.
Let's turn the time over to Don now to discuss the quarter and the year-end financial statements.
Thank you Kirk.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Before discussing Slide 4 I wanted to mention that we intend to file our Form 10-K later in November.
My comments today will be directed to the slides that were sent out this morning and to a lesser extent the condensed consolidated balance sheet and statements of operations that were attached to the press release.
Starting on Slide 4.
Our full year revenue from continuing operations was $632.8 million up $44.8 million or 8% from the prior year revenue of $588 million.
Full year adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $90.4 million up $12.7 million or 16% from the prior year's EBITDA of $77.7 million despite approximately $15.5 million of above-target compensation expense.
Excluding the additional compensation expense adjusted EBITDA increased over $28 million or 36% from the 2011 levels.
Revenue from continuing operations for Q4 was $190.1 million up $11.8 million or 7% from the prior year revenue of $178.3 million.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations for the quarter was $38.8 million after adjusting for approximately $10 million of above-target compensation an 18% increase from prior year EBITDA of $32.9 million.
We continue to see favorable year-over-year margin performance as a result of the improved revenues as well as our cost management actions.
In Q4 gross margins increased 230 basis points and EBITDA margins improved 190 basis points after normalizing for compensation costs.
On the same basis full year gross margins expanded 280 basis points and adjusted EBITDA margins expanded 350 basis points.
We ended the year with a liquidity of nearly $105 million including $53.8 million of cash on the balance sheet.
Now let's move on to Slide #5 and take a closer look at the quarter's financial results.
Revenue from continuing operations for the quarter increased $11.8 million or 7% year-over-year to $190.1 million.
Heavy construction materials revenue increased $10 million or 12% from 2011 levels due to higher sales in the Central region and to improved site services revenue.
Light building products revenue increased $4.8 million or 5% largely due to the higher volumes and to increases in our average sales prices.
Energy technology revenue was down $3 million year-over-year due to customer maintenance outages and timing of orders.
Gross profit was $56.7 million or $7.7 million or 16% increase from the prior year gross profit of $49 million.
The increase was driven by higher revenue as well as cost reductions.
SG&amp;A increased $11.3 million year-over-year largely due to increased performance-based compensation including short-term and long-term incentive programs partially offset by year-over-year cost reductions.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations totaled $28.8 million.
The quarter's expenses included approximately $10 million of above-target compensation expense which reflected strong operating performance as well as a 28% increase in our stock price in Q4.
When excluding the $10 million of above-target compensation expense adjusted EBITDA for Q4 was $38.8 million which represents an 18% increase over the prior year.
Interest expense decreased $2.7 million as a result of debt repayments during the year.
Other expense of $3.2 million largely reflects a noncash charge to write off an investment in a hydrogen peroxide joint venture that the company entered into in 2004.
Discontinued operations reflects the results for coal cleaning.
We completed the sale of 2 of our coal cleaning plants in October and signed an agreement for the sale of the remaining 8 plants.
Under terms of the sale of the 2 plants the buyer has assumed certain plant liabilities and agreed to pay Headwaters a royalty for each ton of coal produced by the plants in the future.
There's a total minimum royalty of approximately $10.7 million that the buyer must pay Headwaters related to the plants regardless of production levels which includes minimum certain -- certain minimum amounts to be paid annually.
Payment of royalties based upon production begins in latter fiscal 2013.
Closing on the remaining 8 plants which is subject to closing conditions is anticipated by the end of the calendar year.
Proceeds from the sale of those plants will include cash at closing future royalties and the buyers assuming certain lease and reclamation obligations.
A significant portion of the current quarter's loss from discontinuing operations reflects accruals for reclamation obligations associated with the plants yet to sell which would ultimately be assumed by the buyer of the plants under the current sales agreement.
Now let's move to Slide 6 and talk about the full year financial results.
Revenue from continuing operations increased nearly $45 million year-over-year to $633 million.
Heavy construction materials sales were up more than $28 million or 11% from 2011 levels due to higher sales in the Central and West regions and improved site services revenue offset by lower sales in the Eastern.
U.S.
Light building products saw its sales increased $26 million or 8% due to higher volumes and to increases in average sales prices.
Energy technology sales were down $9 million year-over-year due to customer maintenance outages and timing of orders.
Gross profits increased 20% year-over-year from $146 million in 2011 to $175 million in 2012 driven by higher revenue and cost -- and reductions in our cost structures.
Gross margins have also expanded increasing 280 basis points in 2012.
We've also seen nice improvement in our EBITDA year-over-year reflecting revenue increases and cost actions.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations totaled $90.4 million versus 2011's EBITDA of $77.7 million.
The 2012 figure includes approximately $15.5 million of above-target compensation expense $12.3 million of which relates to stock price increases that also resulted in a $314 million increase in our market cap.
When you adjust for the $15.5 million of compensation expense adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations totaled $105.9 million a $28.2 million or 36% increase year-over-year.
We mentioned last year that we expected to reduce our cost to $14 million due to the actions initiated in 2011 with about $9 million of that benefit expected in 2012.
In fact we were able to capture slightly more than $14 million of savings in 2012.
The year-over-year decrease in interest expense largely reflects the charges that were taken related to refinancing our senior secured debt in 2011 and to debt repayments.
Let's move to Slide 7 and spend a few minutes discussing debt.
Our debt position has improved over the past 5 quarters as we've increased our trailing 12-months adjusted EBITDA from a low point of $74.5 million in the June 2011 quarter to $90.4 million at the end of the current quarter.
We've decreased our net debt by nearly $54 million over the same period of time.
We closed the current quarter with a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 4.9:1 after reaching a high point of 6.7:1 in the June 2011 quarter.
And after adjusting for the 2012 above target compensation expense that we've discussed the ratio is down to 4.2:1 this quarter.
We repaid approximately $48 million of debt in the past 5 quarters and $38 million in 2012.
The 2012 repayments included $16 million of 2.5% notes as well as the remaining $13 million of 14.75% and $9.2 million of 16% notes.
Starting on Slide 8 Murphy will cover light building products.
Thanks Don.
Good morning everybody.
On Slide 8 you can see revenues from our light building products segment for the fiscal year grew $26 million to $340 million an increase of 8% compared to fiscal year 2011.
The growth came from our siding and architectural stone product groups while our regional block business in Texas was negatively impacted by decreased school construction.
Fourth quarter revenues to the segment increased 5%.
According to the Census Bureau non-seasonally adjusted single-family housing starts for the 12 months ended September 30 2012 were 19% higher than housing starts for the 12 months ended September 30 2011.
Economists are optimistic for growth in 2013 for both new housing starts and remodeling.
If it materializes we're confident that we have sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet demand.
Gross profit margins improved 470 basis points in fiscal year 2012 versus 2011.
The progress is the result of our continuous improvement strategy restructuring initiatives implemented in the second half of fiscal 2011 and price increases counteracting increase in commodity prices and other costs.
Adjusted EBITDA increased to $63 million for fiscal year 2012 growth of $24 million or 60% versus fiscal year 2011.
Higher revenue restructuring initiatives and improvements in operating efficiencies all contributed to this significant improvement.
Margins increased 600 basis points to 18.6% for the year the best adjusted EBITDA margin since 2007.
Fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA for light building products increased by $5 million a 37% improvement over the fourth quarter of 2011.
We're excited by the significant progress made over the past year but we continue to look for ways to further improve our businesses.
Last year the architectural stone group brought its 3 stone brands under one operating structure to provide pricing and channel clarity to market.
This new structure broadened customer revenue opportunities across all price points and we expect it to be helpful going forward in attracting new customers and increasing our market share.
Our siding group increased sales in 2012 as we gained new business especially with our specialty side and roofing product lines.
Our newly reorganized manufacturing and engineering team focused on process improvements and cost reductions this last year and continues to look for ways to optimize our manufacturing processes.
Our block business mainly serves the Texas and Louisiana markets which strengthened our position in Louisiana last year with the acquisition of a block plant at Baton Rouge.
2012 results were hurt by slower school construction while retail and residential markets continue to show improvements.
During 2012 we introduced 2 new products which are doing very well in the market polished and textured custom blocks.
Slide 9 illustrates how the year progressed.
Revenue grew in each of the 4 quarters.
The second quarter showed the largest percentage growth over last year as we benefited from the unusually mild winter.
This pattern is also reflected in the quarterly adjusted EBITDA as the additional revenue in our restructuring initiatives resulted in increased performance every quarter.
Now I'll turn the presentation over to Bill.
Thanks Murphy and good morning everyone.
On Slides 10 and 11 you can see that our coal combustion products group completed the year with revenue of $281.7 million compared to revenues of $253.3 million for 2011 resulting in an 11% year-over-year increase.
Revenue for the September 2012 quarter was $92.6 million compared to revenue of $82.6 million for the September 2011 quarter a 12% year-over-year increase.
Headwaters Resources provides site services to many of its utility clients.
These services include constructing and managing landfill operations operating and maintaining material handling systems and equipment maintenance.
While these services typically have lower margins than our product sales they are not as seasonal and are not as impacted by declines in construction spending.
Site service revenue for the year was up by 19% on a year-over-year basis.
And for the September 2012 quarter it was up over 42% on a year-over-year basis.
As we have mentioned on previous calls we were awarded several new long-term site service contracts this year.
Site services revenue was just over 28% of our overall revenue for the quarter and for the year.
Gross profit for the year increased by 19% to $71.5  million compared to $60.3 million for 2011.
Gross profit margin increased 160 basis points year-over-year driven by improved product sales to sales mix and our continuous improvement efforts.
Gross profit for the September 2012 quarter increased by 14% to $25.7 million compared to $22.6 million for the September 2011 quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA for the year increased over 18% to $54.8 million compared to $46.2 million for 2011.
The adjusted EBITDA from margins for 2012 increased 120 basis points year-over-year.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter increased by 5% to $20.1 million compared to $19.2 million for the September 2011 quarter.
Moving to Slide 12.
During September quarter the U.S.
Senate introduced the bipartisan legislative solution for the disposal of fly ash including a federal standard that would be administered by the states.
The Senate bill has 12 Democrat and 14 Republican cosponsors sufficient support that we are likely to have 60 senators supporting the legislation if it came to a vote.
The House version of the Senate bill was passed with a strong bipartisan majority earlier in the year.
It is now important to identify legislative vehicle in which fly ash disposal language can be attached and provide Congress an opportunity to resolve the regulatory uncertainty caused by the EPA in a bipartisan environmentally sound manner.
As part of its response to deadline litigation initiated by environmental organizations the EPA formally stated that it requires more time to evaluate proposed fly ash disposal regulations.
In its recent court filing the EPA indicated that it will not propose final regulations until 2014 at the earliest.
We do not anticipate any significant developments in the near term from the EPA unless action is required by the courts.
Finally the EPA has now completed its risk evaluation methodology for encapsulated beneficial use of fly ash.
When the risk evaluation methodology is complete we believe that the EPA may apply it to fly ash concrete and synthetic gypsum wallboard 2 examples of encapsulated products confirming the historical consensus that there is no environmental exposure associated with use of coal combustion products in these applications.
During the year low natural gas prices and EPA regulations have combined to force both a temporarily idling and long-term shutdown in some coal-fired units of power plants impacting the supply of coal combustion products in some markets.
Today we have lost one unit to a permanent shutdown and have had a few other units temporarily idled due to low demand.
These idled units have updated emission control systems and are not expected to be impacted long term.
We are not aware that any of our major supply sources will be impacted by permanent shutdowns.
Our multiple sources of supply and broad distribution system allows to backfill supply in markets where supply has been impacted.
During 2012 we were also awarded new supply agreements.
As a result we believe that opportunities exist for us to increase market share and fare better than our competitors in the current regulatory environment.
I'll now turn the call back to Kirk Benson for comments on our energy technology segment.
Kirk? Thanks Bill.
Moving to Slide 13.
Our Energy Technology segment now consist primarily of operations related to HCAT our heavy oil operating catalyst.
During the year there were some outages at our customer refineries and shipment timing that negatively impacted our sales.
We continue to work on adding new customers and continue to have confidence that the value proposition for refineries is very positive.
From a technology perspective 2012 was an excellent year.
The HCAT technology is now clearly commercially proven and operations are proceeding smoothly.
Slide 14 illustrates the impact that this decline in revenue has on adjusted EBITDA.
Other than the cost of goods sold our costs are principally fixed and have been stable for over a year.
In our heavy construction materials and light building products segments we are looking forward to 2013 with a high degree of optimism.
We expect to have sold our noncore coal cleaning business improve free cash flow and operating margins.
Our subordinated debt will continue to decline as we generate cash flow and have the opportunity to repurchase debt in the market resulting in improved credit ratios and reduced risk.
As you can see on Slide 15 we are initiating our outlook at $100 million to $115 million in adjusted EBITDA.
Clearly if our end markets continue to improve our strong operating leverage provides us with upside to our guidance.
So I'd now like to take the time over to the operator for the question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Dan Mannes from Avondale.
LLC Research Division</strong> First question for you.
On the guidance for 2013 given if you pro forma  out the noncash comp as well the above expected comp levels for '12 it doesn't look like your guidance for '13 is particularly ambitious.
So I guess I'm wondering what are you baking into that as it relates to end market improvement? And given what looks to be again fairly conservative is that just you being conservative? Or is there anything you're hearing through the channel that gives you some caution? It's generally our conservative nature.
As I indicated in the last statement that of -- that I made if the end markets continued to improve as they have and as they show signs of improving then there's upside to our forecast.
Basically if you take our 2012 adjusted EBITDA and add the above-target compensation you get into the $105 million $106 million of adjusted EBITDA.
So it's right in the middle of our forecast.
So what that implies is we may have forecast some slight improvement in the end markets.
But clearly it's a -- it's related to making sure that we can over perform and under promise so we're trying to be relatively conservative in our forecast.
Over the last 5 or 6 years people have forecast recoveries and they've been wrong.
This time it feels different than in the prior 3 or 4 attempts of people to forecast recoveries.
This year it feels like there actually is a recovery that has started and that is taking place.
So we're pretty optimistic about next year.
And because our operating leverage is still in the 47% 48% range so if you have an uptick in revenue we continue to believe that that 47% or so of that uptick in revenue will fall to our bottom line.
So there is clearly an upside opportunity to our forecast but we want to make sure that we under promise and over perform.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And real quick given all the noise particularly on the -- on noncash comp side and comp in general can you -- how should we think about SG&amp;A year-over-year from a core perspective? Well one of the things that you can do is by and large you can take that above target compensation and you can -- some of that is going to be in cost of goods sold so it's not all in SG&amp;A.
The bulk of it is in SG&amp;A and so you can use that as a way to adjust the SG&amp;A downward to a more reasonable number in 2013.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last question and this is more for Bill.
As you look at the heavy construction materials business there's certainly some inklings at least regionally of some improvement in the cement markets.
Certainly it sounds like in Texas.
Can you talk a little bit about your leverage to price and especially in light of maybe some of the sharing arrangements you have and how much leverage you have to improvements in pricing and I guess to a lesser extent in volume as you think about that market maybe getting a little bit better? As a general comment before Bill adds some color to this we have -- there continues to be a gap between portland cement pricing and fly ash price nationally.
And as portland cement prices are firming up a little bit and strengthening that does give us cover and an opportunity to increase our pricing.
So Bill why don't you share a little bit of detail on our ability to raise prices? Sure.
And obviously we spend a good part of the year we had a pricing increase initiative pushed down to our salespeople.
Just to give you an idea this is somewhat dependent on regional sales mix obviously.
But our year-over-year pricing increased 10%.
In the Q4 pricing increased 17% year-over-year.
So we are making some traction.
We're seeing the opportunity.
That's in comparison to the engineering news record data that we typically follow internally which had year-over-year price increasing in cement of about 3.6%.
So we're able to gain ground even with our revenue share on cement in a lot of these markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So the 17% price was that -- would you institute it in the fourth quarter? Or is that what you actually realized and is that a negative impact to you? That's what we realized in the quarter Dan.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's -- and then some of that goes back to share but obviously you were able to keep a piece of that? Right right.
The next question comes from Al Kaschalk from Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the prior question.
So Bill can you share of that 17% or I think you also referenced 10% what you kept? Well you can see in the financials basically that the revenue increased.
And so a portion of that was because of price increases and a portion of that was of course volume and a portion of that was from services.
So we're basically going to try to be as aggressive as we can be in the -- in our pricing and in price increases as we go forward.
I'm not sure we have a precise breakout of the revenue increase between pricing and volume for the quarter.
So why don't you get -- come back to us Al and we'll see if we can get some more detail on that question.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess the other way maybe to ask it seems as if service revenue as a percent of the segment was a little bit lower than last year at least in the fourth quarter yet the -- if I'm not mistaken I think margins were a little better.
Maybe I don't have my apples together but it seems like we performed a little bit better yet the mix was a little bit opposite of that.
Yes the mix did have some impact on it for sure when you look at the consolidated margins between service and volume.
I think that's right.
Research Division</strong> If I may flip over to light building products.
Obviously there's the macro call here but can you talk a little bit about the pricing across inflation that you may or not be seeing? It appears that inventories are being managed pretty effectively.
And while there's plenty of capacity for you from a production side I'm just wondering how we should think about it as we ramp into the first part of fiscal '13 and roll a little bit deeper into the year about the margin profile of the segment? Of course you've noted that margins substantially improved over the prior year.
Some of that -- there's 2 reasons for those margin improvements.
One is as Don indicated we were very successful in our restructuring efforts and we were able to get even slightly more than the $14 million that we had predicted for cost savings.
So that clearly improved margins.
And then the other thing that's in our -- the -- as revenue has increased we've seen those increases in our products that go to the new residential construction markets and slightly to the repair and remodel markets.
Those products have a higher contribution margin than our regional block activities in Texas so our lowest contribution margin is in our regional block product group.
And revenues from the block group declined and that's a decline at a lower contribution margin.
And so what -- and so our revenue from stone and from accessories increased enough to make up for that drop in revenue for block and our increased revenue was at higher margins.
And so what we would expect to see as the -- that our Texas activity seem to have stabilized.
And as we indicated in the press release we expect 2013 to be flat to slight growth.
And so we shouldn't have that drag going forward into 2013 and the growth that we would then expect would be with our higher-margin higher contribution margin products.
So that should result in improved margins in 2013.
From an inflation perspective we are seeing some pressure from cement pricing.
That's been indicated in the call.
I think we are seeing that.
I think that we're -- labor cost seem to be pretty much in -- under control.
And we are continuing to improve our productivity and efficiency which hopefully that should offset most if not all of the inflationary pressures from our cost structure.
So Murphy if you want to add something to that.
Well yes I mean I think that's true Kirk.
I mean we're continuing to -- we have an active process improvement program and I fully expect it to set off raw material price increases which we do expect to see.
So the other thing that helps a little bit in what we think is going to be a moderate growth environment is that the -- you do get some additional fixed cost absorption as we ramp up.
So I think the combination of those things is going to be relatively positive from a margin stand.
One other thing on costs as we're entering into the year on the polypropylene costs they -- the polypropylene costs fluctuate significantly and they can change fairly quickly.
Fortunately we're entering into the fiscal year with relatively moderate polypropylene pricing and so our cost going into the year are pretty favorable from a polypropylene perspective.
Now as I said those costs can change pretty rapidly.
But at minimum we're going into the year in a -- from a fairly good perspective relative to polypropylene costs.
Research Division</strong> One more final if I may and this is more of a structural question about the market on light building products.
It does not appear or at least when you talk with folks that they believe the repair and remodel market is anywhere close to where expectations were at least at the start of the building season.
And I'm wondering if going into fiscal '13 if you made any different assumptions about that into your numbers and outlook.
Because generally that has been the better driver for your business yet performance was up substantially improved over the year-ago period.
So I don't know if there's anything structurally you can talk about at the market not necessarily your business but maybe the implications if there is a change back to an improved R&amp;R market versus new housing starts.
I think that we're generally -- what we generally built into our forecast is a flat to slightly up repair and remodel market.
There are some forecasts that have repair and remodel up substantially in 2013.
We did not build that growth into our forecast.
It does provide us with another opportunity for some upside opportunity to the forecast if repair and remodel improves substantially in 2013.
But we didn't build that into our forecast out.
We basically have assumed that it would be flat to slightly up in 2013.
Al this is Don.
I would note too that we have the plant capacity available in order to take advantage of an uptick in demand if it's there.
The next question comes from Philip Volpicelli from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> My question is with regard to the outlook.
Now that you've brought your debt levels down and your leverage levels down to levels that I think you would be more comfortable with.
What is the target for leverage? And would you guys consider making tuck-in acquisitions with the cash that you should generate in '13? Philip this is Don.
I'll take a shot at answering that question.
First in terms of our longer-term targets for our debt leverage from a net debt to EBITDA standpoint is to have a net debt to EBITDA in the 2.5x to 3x trough EBITDA.
And we haven't of course moved too far off of the trough.
So if you're trying to get a sense as to what trough EBITDA looks like for us you don't have to look very far to get that.
But that's our long-term goal and we think that we have made some good progress toward that as we noted.
Right now we're at about 4.2x net debt to EBITDA once you normalize for that additional compensation.
In terms of acquisitions and potential acquisitions when it comes to looking at opportunities of course we're interested in looking at opportunities.
At the same time we always have in our mind that longer-term objective in terms of leverage.
And so if an opportunity were there it would have to be a very very strong strategic fit and it would also have to work within the parameters that we're setting for long-term capital structure.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just last for me on HCAT.
I know in the past you've talked about potentially monetizing that.
Is that still something that could happen? And is it a '13 event or is it more likely further in the future.
We're absolutely looking for opportunity to monetize the asset.
It probably won't happen in 2013.
There's potential that it could but it's something that goes beyond to 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You just need to grow it more Kirk.
Is that what it boils down to? Yes.
We think that we've got a significant upside opportunity with HCAT.
There is -- we've got a high contribution margin.
And so with some additional customers in our base it -- since we are with normalized shipments we're basically at breakeven from a cash perspective in that business.
So every additional customer will generate incremental EBITDA for which we should be able to get value as we bring that asset into the marketplace.
So it's a matter of taking -- getting some of the benefit that's associated with the business that we built.
The next question comes from John Quealy from Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of clarifications.
In that guidance for $100 million to $115 million of EBITDA heavy construction and light building what's the relative rates of growth we're looking at? They grew 12% and 7% respectively in '12.
Is it similar? Maybe heavy construction temps down a little bit given that we've got some price.
Could you just help us quantify that a little bit more please? Well actually to get to the midpoint of the range you can get there with really no improvement in your end markets.
That's why there's upside to our forecast.
So if you had 10% growth at the top line because of our operating leverage you could result in 20% 30% growth in adjusted EBITDA.
So the forecast is by nature conservative and the midpoint of that forecast is roughly that there's not substantial growth in our end markets.
And if you did have a 10% growth in our revenue line with the 47% contribution margin you could expect up to a 20% to 30% growth in adjusted EBITDA.
So if you have that 10% upside growth you'd have a very decent chance of beating our forecast.
Research Division</strong> And then Kirk just to clarify the stock comp was $15.5 million.
Is that a hard comp or an easy comp for next year? Do you still have to pay a similar amount? Just walk us through the math and what we should think about for that.
Basically the way that it would work for 2013 is that if you had $1 increase in stock price it would work out to about $1.5 million of incentive compensation.
That's a little bit lower than it was in 2012 but there is still incentive compensation tied to the stock price.
If our stock price goes up over 300% again that's something that we would accept and something that we'd be really happy about.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But the base of $15 million that resets or not? Resets in the sense that we are -- what we've basically built into our forecast is a compensation at the 50th percentile of market.
That's where our target compensation basically is.
And so that $15.5 million is not built into the forecast but the normal target compensation is built into the forecast.
Research Division</strong> And now more qualitatively on the heavy side of things with the EPA coming out talking about '14.
I think there were some M&amp;A recently with Lafarge or EXP.
Is the market now looking past this issue Kirk and just going to formalities when the EPA gets its act together in '14 plus? Or how would you characterize it? I think generally the -- most people believe that the issue with the EPA is going to be resolved in a common sense environmentally friendly manner.
So I think that we've got an excellent opportunity that the extremes in the EPA's position will be tempered and that we are going to be successful in maintaining our ability to replace or to include fly ash in concrete and get all of the economic and environmental benefits associated with putting fly ash in concrete.
So we're saving federal and state governments between $5 billion to $6 billion each year because of that substitution of ash for portland cement.
We are reducing CO2 emission by about 10 million tons per year reducing water consumption by 30 billion gallons and over 1 trillion BTUs of energy.
So there's a lot of environmental benefits associated with the substitution and there's a lot of economic benefits.
And I think that reason has pretty much prevailed and that we're going to get an outcome from the EPA that everybody is going to be able to live with.
The only caveat to that is that it isn't done yet and so no one knows until the ink is dried as to what ultimately it will be done.
But by and large people are much more optimistic now than what they have been for the last 2 years.
Research Division</strong> And I'm sorry just one last one.
On cash flow Don I'm sorry if I missed this.
Did you talk about cash flow expectations CapEx free cash for '13 at all? No we haven't but I can give you some ideas on it.
For 2013 we would expect to have CapEx in the $27 million to $29 million range.
And I forgot the rest of your question.
Research Division</strong> Free cash flow.
Free cash flow sorry.
Free cash flow would be kind of in the mid-30s for continuing operations.
Does that cover your question? Research Division</strong> That's it.
And the last question comes from Jefferies.
It's Diego Jefferies [ph].
Just a couple of quick follow-up questions.
For the light building products business maybe if you can exclude your block products but can you give us a sense as to the price versus volume sort of relationship during the quarter as far as your growth there? Yes.
We had very good volume growth and we would -- if you look at the total light building products growth it works out that about 60% of the growth was volume and 40% of the growth was price.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then what's the market share? I think you've talked about it more specifically this quarter on your vinyl and accessory products.
Is there a greater penetration in customers with your existing portfolio? Or is that some new products that you guys have introduced recently? Don and Murphy that's -- you should -- why don't you respond on the stone side to that question on what's happening relative to market share? Yes.
I mean it's a little of both and we do have some new products that are in the market.
They tend to -- our new stone products tend to take about 3 years to ramp up and we tend to introduce a couple every year.
So we usually have up in the pipeline from a new product standpoint it's adding to the total.
We do feel like we've gained some market share over the last year and we've added some distribution that we've taken -- displaced some competitors in that have been material and our combination of the 3 brands under our common sales management team has had an impact.
It's been able -- it's given us the ability to in a coordinated way really provide the market with a good better best type product offering which we haven't really had in a very connected way in the past.
And that's really helped us in a number of different respects from a market share standpoint.
We have 87% of our distribution only carries one of our brands.
We've got an opportunity to insert the other existing distribution without even expanding the distribution footprint.
On the accessory side of the business we -- our specialty siding product and our roofing product have both taking market share.
So our -- and our specialty siding product is a little bit different than the -- than our competitors' specialty siding.
And it -- from an ease of application and putting the siding on the wall and the reduced waste associated with the application of the siding we think that we've got some competitive advantages.
And those are starting to play out in the marketplace so we've had very robust growth in specialty siding.
We've introduced some new products some extensions of our existing products but new in effect extensions of our roofing products.
And those have been very successful and well-received in the marketplace and so we've had very robust growth in our roofing product as well.
We've got some new product extensions that we'll be introducing and feel really good about the market share dynamics on the roofing and specialty siding products.
Great.
And I appreciate the color there.
And just if I could sneak one more.
With the revenue improving and it sounds like you guys are being pretty cautious for the coming year but assuming the market ticks up maybe a bit at what level maybe you can talk about it by segment would you start to see some headcount coming back from a revenue standpoint? So from a headcount perspective I think that we're going to be able to manage our business so that we maintain our contribution margin.
So there is a fair amount of headcount that's in our variable cost and so some of that of course is like a step variable.
So if you bring on additional shift at the manufacturing facility you can see that you'll have a little bit of a step variable impact.
But by and large I think as we look at the business we think over time we're going to be able to maintain a contribution margin in the 45% range so -- in the mid-40% range.
And that would be true in the light building products segment and in the heavy construction materials segment.
So we've actually brought on additional headcount.
Because as I indicated in light building products for example 60% of our increase in revenue was from volume and so -- but those costs are in that -- in our variable cost structure and we've still been able to maintain a high 40% contribution margin.
As we go into the fixed cost and when we start adding labor from a fixed cost perspective I think that we're going to be very cautious about adding fixed cost to the structure because it's been a difficult 5 or 6 years and so adding fixed cost is something we're going to do very gingerly.
And so you're probably not going to see very much increase in fixed cost in 2013 at all and there has to be a fairly significant increase in our end markets to justify a substantial increase in those fixed cost in 2014.
This is Don maybe I could add too.
When you think back to the $14 million of cost reductions that we took in 2011 about 45% of those cost reductions related to SG&amp;A.
And the way that we approach those cost reductions was not just blind cuts it was being pretty strategic in terms of how we structured our support organizations with the expectation that we could leverage those organizations as the business recovered.
So I think we feel pretty good that we're going to be able to keep those expenses in check even with the recovery in the business and see some continued marginal improvement in terms of leverage around those cost structures in a recovery.
There are no further questions.
Thank you operator.
If there's no further questions then we'll go ahead and conclude the call.
We'd like to thank you all for your participation.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
And welcome to the Headwaters Incorporated First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder this call is being recorded today January 29 2013.
I would now like to turn the call over to Tricia Ross of Financial Profiles.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Headwaters Incorporated First Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Conference Call.
There are slides accompanying today's presentation that can be found on the webcast link at the Headwaters Incorporated website under the Events and Presentations link.
Please go there to follow along with the slides.
If you have any issues please feel free to email me at tross@finprofiles.com and I can also e-mail you a copy.
I would now like to turn the call over to Sharon Madden Vice President of Investor Relations at Headwaters Incorporated.
Thank you Tricia.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us as we report Headwaters' fiscal 2013 Q1 results.
Kirk Benson Headwaters' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Don Newman Headwaters' Chief Financial Officer will be conducting this morning's call along with Bill Gehrmann who is President of Headwaters Resources and heavy construction materials segment; and Dave Ulmer who is President of Tapco International.
Before we get started on this morning's call I would like to remind everyone that Headwaters is sponsoring its 11th Annual Analyst &amp; Investor Day Conference here in Salt Lake City on March 21 and 22 at the Grand America Hotel.
Our guest speaker this year will be Ivy Zelman the CEO of Zelman &amp; Associates.
Ivy is recognized as one of the preeminent figures within the housing and housing-related industries today.
For more information on attending please feel free to contact me through our corporate offices or by e-mailing me at smadden@headwaters.com.
I will be happy to supply you with any additional information.
While listening to the call today please remember that certain statements made during the call including statements relating to our expected future business and financial performance may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 both as amended.
Forward-looking statements by their very nature address matters that are to different degrees uncertain.
These uncertainties are described in more detail in Headwaters' annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
You can find Headwaters' annual report on Form 10-K quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings readily available from the SEC's website Headwaters' website or directly from the company.
I will now turn the call over to Kirk Benson.
Kirk? Thank you Sharon.
Overall we had a very good quarter.
We were particularly pleased with the performance of our product groups that have exposure to new residential construction.
Based on positive year-over-year comparisons on the top line and the acquisition of Kleer Lumber we've raised our projected adjusted EBITDA guidance range to $110 million to $125 million.
Revenue increased by 9% in the quarter gross profit by 8% and operating income by 37%.
The strength in the quarter was in light building products where operating income increased over 300% reflecting the improvements in new residential construction.
Results in heavy construction materials were soft primarily because of reduced services caused by unplanned outages and low electricity generation at certain of our utility plant sites.
We also had a decrease in the number of tons shipped during the quarter because of weather-related conditions.
We were successful in acquiring the assets of Kleer Lumber Inc.
We look -- and we look at acquisitions from the following perspective: first the opportunity for Headwaters from a business perspective is it adjacent to what we are already doing? In the Kleer situation there is a close adjacency in distribution which means that we may be able to sell Kleer's products through our existing distribution and we may be able to sell our existing products through Kleer's distribution.
Cellular PVC trim board is a product sold into a niche market in which we may be able to achieve our leadership economic goals from an adjusted EBITDA perspective.
Kleer has excellent manufacturing capabilities and product quality.
We believe that the operational risks are relatively low.
Second will the transaction be accretive to our shareholders? Kleer met this criterion and the transaction will be accretive to 2013 earnings per share.
Third is the transaction consistent with our strategy to reduce financial risk? Kleer also met this criteria and we have reduced our financial risk.
The follow-on offering was successful in increasing our equity base reducing leverage introducing Headwaters to new long-term shareholders and increasing liquidity.
Our average daily shares traded has increased substantially since the transaction.
Shortly after the end of the quarter we successfully concluded the sale of our remaining coal cleaning facilities completing our exit from ownership of coal-related assets.
To make the coal cleaning transaction successful we needed 3 things: an entrepreneurial drive that could first identify feedstock sources; second execute offtake agreements; and third we needed capital.
It took us time to put a qualified buyer together with the assets but we ultimately succeeded in putting all 3 elements together in a deal.
We feel very good about the transaction both from the financial benefit to our balance sheet but also because it eliminates the distraction associated with coal cleaning.
Turning to Slide 4 you can see a little more detail on the Kleer transaction.
Kleer has one of the best trim board products in the marketplace and is introducing decking and railing.
Over the past 4 years the compounded growth rate has been nearly 20%.
There was an even growth at the bottom of the building cycle.
The market size for trim decking and railing is in the $4 billion to $5 billion range.
Looking at Slide 5 you can see the leading building products brands that we bring to the market literally wrapping the exterior of a new home or remodel project with high margin niche products.
In fact as you look at Slide 6 our niche product offering compares very favorably with other leading light building products companies.
So I'd now like to turn the call over to Don for a financial review of the quarter.
The business segment presentation will be made by Bill and Dave.
Thank you Kirk.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Before discussing Slide 7 I wanted to mention that we intend to file our Form 10-Q later this week.
My comments today will be directed to the slides that were sent out this morning and to a lesser extent the condensed consolidated balance sheets and statements of operations that were attached to the press release.
Starting with Slide 7 our revenue from continuing operations in the quarter was $149.6 million up $12.2 million or 9% from the prior year revenue of $137.4 million.
Gross profit increased 8% to $37.2 million and our operating income increased 37% to $6 million.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations for the quarter was $19.7 million down slightly from the prior year's EBITDA of $20.4 million due primarily to compensation expense resulting from the $1.98 per share or 30% increase in the company's stock price in Q1.
Excluding  this compensation expense adjusted EBITDA increased $1.5 million or 7% from 2012.
In Q1 we saw the bottom line from continuing operations improve 70% year-over-year and believe we are on track to generate a profit in 2013 the first annual net profit since 2007.
We ended the year with liquidity of more than $116 million including $78.4 million of cash on the balance sheet.
Let's move on to Slide 8 and take a closer look at the quarter's financial results.
Heavy construction materials revenue increased $5 million or 8% in -- from 2012 levels due to higher sales in the central and east regions and to improved site services revenue.
Light building products revenue increased $3.4 million or 5% largely due to higher volumes and to increases in average sales prices.
Energy technology's revenue was up $3.8 million year-over-year due to customer maintenance outages and timing of orders last year.
The gross profit increase was driven by the higher revenue.
Operating expenses increased $1.2 million year-over-year due to increases in SG&amp;A offset by decreases in amortization and restructuring costs.
The $3.2 million increase in SG&amp;A resulted from the compensation expense related to the company's 30% increase in stock price resulting in a $2.1 million increase in year-over-year compensation expense.
We also incurred approximately $1 million in professional fees associated with the Kleer acquisition.
SG&amp;A was otherwise flat year-over-year.
Interest expense decreased $2 million as a result of debt repayments during 2012.
Other expense of $4.1 million in 2012 largely reflects a noncash charge related to the sale of our interest in the Blue Flint Ethanol facility.
And that was partially offset by a $2 million gain on early retirement of debt.
Discontinued operations reflect the results for coal cleaning.
We completed the sale of 2 coal cleaning plants in October and sold the remaining 8 coal cleaning plants in January.
Proceeds from the sale of the 10 plants include approximately $3.8 million of cash paid at closing and approximately $10 million of additional cash to be paid by the end of calendar 2013 which includes the release of bond collateral and certain reimbursements.
Additionally the buyer agreed to pay Headwaters' potential royalties and deferred purchase price totaling up to $53.4 million over approximately an 8-year period.
It's subject to the buyer's production of coal products.
The buyer also assumed certain plant liabilities including lease and reclamation obligations.
Payment of royalties and deferred purchase price based upon production is currently scheduled to begin in the latter part of calendar 2013.
We expect to report a book gain on the sale of the coal cleaning plants in the second quarter.
Now let's move on to Slide 9.
Slide 9 shows the quarterly revenue and adjusted EBITDA breakdown for 2012 and the first quarter of 2013.
You can see the Q1 2013 revenue exceeding 2012 and the 2013 adjusted EBITDA slightly below the 2012 levels due to the compensation expense resulting from the increase in the stock price during Q1.
Let's move on to Slide 10 and spend a few minutes discussing debt.
Our debt position has continued to improve over the past 6 quarters as we've increased our trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA and reduced our net debt levels.
We closed the current quarter with a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 4.7:1 after reaching a high point of 6.7:1 in the June 2011 quarter.
Over the trailing 12 months we've reduced our leverage ratio a full turn as a result of improving our adjusted EBITDA by $5.3 million and reducing our net debt by more than $58 million.
Starting on Slide 11 Dave will discuss light building products.
Thanks Don and good morning everybody.
On Slide 11 you can see revenues from our light building products segment for the quarter grew $3.4 million to $76.7 million an increase of 5% compared to fiscal year 2011.
According to the Census Bureau non-seasonally adjusted single-family housing starts for the 3 months ended December 31 2012 were 29% higher than housing starts for the 3 months ended December 31 2011.
Economists are optimistic for growth in 2013 for both new housing starts and remodeling.
We are confident that we have sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet the resulting demand.
Since most of our products are applied towards the end of the construction project our revenue usually lags 4 to 6 months behind the starts.
Of course we are in the middle of the winter season further delaying construction and the application of our products.
Our architectural stone product group had the largest growth in sales because of its exposure to the new residential construction.
We've previously announced that our architectural stone group brought its 3 stone brands under 1 operating structure to provide pricing and channel clarity to the market.
This new structure broadened customer revenue opportunities across all price points and we expect it to be helpful going forward in attracting new customers and increasing market share.
The block product group also had positive year-over-year comps reversing the trend for the last 3 quarters of fiscal year 2012.
Our block business mainly serves the Texas and Louisiana markets.
You may recall 2012 results were hurt by slower school construction while retail and residential markets were strong.
We look forward to growing revenue in 2013 due to the addition of new products such as polished and textured custom block as well as additional sales to Lowe's and a strengthened position in Louisiana due to previously announced acquisition of a block plant in Baton Rouge.
Our siding group continued to see strength in its specialty siding product line in the first quarter.
Our newly reorganized manufacturing and engineering team continues to focus on process improvements and cost reductions as well as ways to optimize our manufacturing processes.
As Kirk touched on earlier we completed the acquisition of Kleer Lumber at the end of the first quarter.
We are excited to add these high-quality and eco-friendly products to our existing distribution system.
Kleer is an excellent add-on acquisition that provides the opportunity to pursue leadership economics in an adjacent niche end market.
Gross profit margins improved 180 basis points in the first quarter versus fiscal year 2012's first quarter leading to operating income growth of over 300%.
Adjusted EBITDA increased to $11.9 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 a 5% improvement over last year's first quarter.
Slide 12 illustrates what we have already discussed.
Revenue and adjusted EBITDA both grew over last year in the first quarter.
This was the fifth straight quarter of growth year-over-year in both revenue and adjusted EBITDA.
Now I'll turn the presentation over to Bill.
Thanks Dave and good morning everyone.
On Slides 13 and 14 you can see that revenue for the December 2012 quarter in our heavy construction materials business was $68.2 million compared to $63.1 million for the December 2011 quarter resulting in an 8% year-over-year increase.
Headwaters' client services provide site services to many of our utility clients.
Site service revenue was up year-over-year for the December quarter and accounted for approximately 33% of our overall revenue for the quarter compared to 28% for the fiscal 2012 year.
3 projects started at new power plants over the last year led to the revenue increase helping to offset lower electric generation at several plants due to lower regional load demand.
This lower generation resulted in margin pressure as fixed cost increased as a percentage of revenue.
Since these services typically have lower operating margins than our product sales the larger mix of services in the December and March quarters contribute to a lower overall EBITDA margin for the segment.
Gross profit for the December 2012 quarter decreased by 9% to $14.6 million compared to $16 million for the December 2011 quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA for the December 2012 quarter decreased 19% to $10.8 million compared to $13.3 million for the December 2011 quarter.
The year-over-year declines in gross profit and EBITDA were the result of lower electric generation experienced in our site service business the geographic product mix of fly ash sales and a large amount of nonrecurring high margin revenue that was recorded in 2012.
We also saw a return to the normal seasonality of our product sales revenue as we experience rain in the South and on the West Coast along with a more normal weather pattern in the Midwest.
We indicated in the September quarter that our prices were up compared to the prior year.
This trend continued in the December quarter.
In the current quarter our prices are up compared to last year in the 10%-plus range but because of the weather-related issues and the completion of major projects in the West our tons for the December quarter declined.
Combined with the nonroutine revenue that was booked last year and did not carryover into the December quarter this year our revenue on a netted basis was relatively flat.
Cement pricing seems to be trending up 4% to 6%.
It continues to be our strategy to match the increase in cement prices.
Included in this strategy is a goal to get an additional increase to offset the increases in transportation costs that we are seeing in most markets.
We will be looking forward to similar opportunities to do it again this year as we get into the March and June quarter where most price increases are implemented.
This month the Portland Cement Association raised its forecast for 2012 cement consumption growth to 8.1% citing an increase in residential construction as the major driver.
It also indicated that the year-over-year comparison for the March quarter may not be positive due to the mild winter conditions in 2012 coupled with a return to a more normal weather pattern in 2013.
I'll now turn the call back to Kirk.
Thank you Bill.
Slide 15 reports the results of our energy segment.
Our energy technology segment consists of our heavy oil upgrading technology HCAT and its 2 related technologies.
Revenue increased year-over-year to $4.7 million reflecting a more normal purchasing pattern from our customers.
However since Neste Oil is our major customer when it does a turnaround you can expect that it will result in reduced revenue during the turnaround period.
Last year's turnaround however was longer than what was expected.
Slide 16 shows the quarterly changes in revenue and EBITDA.
We anticipate that the energy segment will be flat to positive EBITDA for the year compared to a loss last year.
Turning to Slide 17 as we noted we are benefiting from increased new residential construction.
The March quarter will be a difficult comparison because of the mild weather in 2012 but our light building products operating income was up 300% in the December quarter and our product groups with exposure to new residential construction continue to perform well in January.
Subject to the contingencies noted on Slide 17 we feel comfortable raising our adjusted EBITDA guidance for the year to $110 million to $125 million.
So with that I'd now like to turn the time back to the operator for the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question does come from the line of John Quealy with Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> It's Chip Moore for John.
It looks like you're assuming flat remodel markets in your guidance but we've seen some studies out there talking about double-digit accelerated growth.
Are you seeing anything different in your channel or is that just a little bit of cautiousness? I think that we've seen the same guidance in the - I think the [indiscernible] is up like a 17% growth in 2013.
And we have not yet seen that in our products that have exposure to repair and remodel.
So we continue to be cautious about the repair and remodel because we've not yet seen that growth come through in our specific products that have exposure to the repair and remodel market.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And in terms of price increases is that across SKUs and geographies? When do you expect those to take effect and be covered? Are you referring to light building products or heavy construction materials? Research Division</strong> I guess both.
So right now in the light building products we've been able to implement price increases in the Texas market with our block products.
Those price increases have stuck and there is -- as we sell those products directly in the Texas market there's usually a 3 or 4 month lag between the point in time when you quote a product at an increased price and when the revenue hits.
And so there is a little bit of lag but we are quoting prices now with those price increases in place.
And so we'll start to see the impact of those price increases some of that probably in the -- at least in the June quarter for sure maybe a little bit in the March quarter.
But those price increases look like they're going to stick in the marketplace.
As Bill discussed in his script on the fly ash side of the business we generally are able to get price increases in the March quarter towards the very end of the March quarter and into the beginning of the June quarter.
And so I think with what is happening with Portland cement we should be able to get some price increases that would then have an impact in the -- like in the September quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a little bit of housekeeping.
The income tax at 12% for the year is that a one-year phenomenon and then that gets normalized in the out years or how should we be looking at that.
This is Don.
A phenomenon in that it is such a low and relative number percentage? Research Division</strong> Correct.
Yes.
And the reason for that is we do have a substantial amount of federal NOLs that are fully reserved.
And so as we become profitable we'll be able to take some of those NOLs and shelter our federal tax expense.
And so that's why it looks much lower than you would typically see.
It would be expected that over time as the company continues to generate profits and we release those NOL reserves and consume those NOLs then we would return to a more normalized tax rate in the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes.
That makes sense.
Go ahead.
I was going to say -- but that normalization that's going to be several years away.
We've got nearly $200 million of NOLs that are on the books that are fully reserved and then we have an additional more than $20 million of tax credits that will also be available to shelter us from federal -- the bulk of the federal tax.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it should continue a bit more like that 12% rate until you burn through those? Yes something like that.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly on the stock comp expense.
Can you give just a sense of -- around the $10 share price right now where that comes out to for '13? When we ended last year with a stock price of $6.58 and the guidance that we've given is for every $1 of stock price increase you would expect a full year expense of about $1 -- or excuse me $1.5 million.
So for every $1 of stock change $1.5 million of expense change is effectively it.
It was a little bit lighter in the first half of the year than that $1.5 million per $1 largely because we have a portion of those awards that are also tied to financial performance in the business.
And because -- better than -- about 3/4 of our financial performance is generated in the second half of the year.
The majority of that part of the expense is recognized in the second half of the year but the long and the short is about $1.5 million of expense for every $1 of movement.
And our next question does come from the line of Dan Mannes with Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to focus a little bit on heavy construction materials.
First Bill I want to make sure I heard your comments correct did you mention you got ballpark at 10% realized price increase this quarter and is that broad-based or is that more sort of regional and specific to certain customers? Now yes.
The 10% number is correct.
That's in the ballpark and we take that -- we've averaged that or based that across board.
That's not a regional number.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if you can help me square that because it sounds like from your press release it looked like your ash sale revenue was roughly flat year-over-year.
So if you got 10% average pricing does that imply volumes were actually down 10%? No.
You've got to remember Dan that we've got a revenue share structure in all of our agreements where we share anywhere from 30% to 60% of the revenue with our utility clients.
But Dan you're absolutely correct.
Volumes in the 12/31 quarter were down so you're absolutely right.
And then you do have to take into account what Bill just said which is that if you've got like a 10% price increase and you've got -- and the way that our supply agreements are structured we're sharing		 those price increases with utilities and so you basically have a -- say you're at a 50% revenue share and you got a 10% price increase half of that price increase ends up going to utilities.
And that has an impact of course on the margins and that's reflected in the cost of goods sold in the business.
But to specifically answer the question that you asked that you're absolutely correct and that's what -- I had indicated that in my comments and Bill also indicated that in his script and that is that the tonnage in the 12/31 quarter was down compared to 2011 and we think that the tonnage was down primarily because of a reversion to more normal weather patterns.
That's one of the primary factors that's going on.
A second factor is that we had some large projects in the Western region.
For example in Utah there was a very significant construction in the -- on I-15 right? That's our freeway here.
And that construction project ended as well as a few other construction projects and so you had lower volume because of the end of some of those projects.
So you're absolutely correct.
The volume in the 12/31 quarter was down.
LLC Research Division</strong> So 2 quick clarifications the revenue share you mentioned that doesn't reduce the top line that will go through COGS correct? That's right.
And that's why -- and so you're right.
And so if you look just at revenue the biggest impact there was -- one was price increase but the other one was the decline in volume.
And then there was one other thing going on when you compare the 12/31/2012 quarter with the 2011 quarter and that is that we had some nonrecurring 100% project margin revenue in the 2012 (sic) [2011] quarter and we didn't have any of that in that 2012 quarter.
It's approximately $2 million.
And so that's also -- that impacts the revenue line as well as the margin line because it was -- that $2 million was a 100% margin revenue.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then one last clarification on the service side of the business.
Obviously it sounds like you picked up a bunch of new clients and you were doing more work in aggregate.
But just so I understand when some of your customers go down are the revenues volume-based i.e.
you're being paid sort of per ton of ash I guess your servicing or processing or disposing for a fee? Is that why the margins got hit or if you could help us out a little bit there with maybe why you saw some of the margin declines because of plant downtime and reduced usage during the quarter.
That would be helpful.
I'll let Bill add some specific details to the answer but in the services part of the business the financial model there is relatively high fixed cost and a very high contribution margin.
So when you have -- if the utility produces less electricity and therefore less ash that needs to be disposed of.
Your question is whether or not our revenue is variable based upon production and the answer is yes.
And Bill will add more detail to that but -- and so generally if your revenue declines because of the high contribution margin it has -- your fixed cost become a larger percentage of revenue and it has a negative impact on your operating income and EBITDA margin.
That's what we experienced in the 12/31 quarter.
Bill why don't you add a little bit to how we generate revenue and what we are paid to do and how that's impacted by the level of activity at a utility site.
Yes typically Dan in those types of contracts the bulk of the revenue is generated by the ton handled in land filled.
There is additional work done around the landfill but that also will be based on volume.
As you move more material you have more of that additional work to do.
So yes there's a direct correlation between revenue and tons generated.
And our next question does come from the line of Seth Yeager with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is it possible to provide the EBITDA that was purchased with Kleer? I didn't see that in your prior filings.
And how much of the updated guidance includes Kleer and any expected purchasing or distribution synergies with that acquisition? Yes.
I think there's little bit of math we can get there.
The EBITDA margin was in the 12% to 13% range on about $38 million of revenue.
And so you're in the range of very close to -- this is pre-synergies by the way.
On a pre-synergy basis you're in the range right around $5 million of adjusted EBITDA.
And post-synergies we think we can get that margin up to 16% to 17% range.
And so those are -- we went from a 12% to 13% pre-synergy to like about a 16% or so post-synergy.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's deemed to be about in line with Trex and I think those guys typically get 15% to 20% right? So with the guidance going forward what's the timing from your stand point as far as how quickly those synergies roll through in the acquisition? The way we typically model it into our forecast and our work is we assume 50% in the first year and 50% in the second year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
That's helpful.
On the building product side I didn't -- maybe I missed it but can you talk about the price increases on siding during the quarter and how did that market fared? Dave do you follow -- did you want to respond to that question? I responded mostly on the block business relative to price increases.
I'm not sure we're seeing a lot of price increase activity currently on the siding side of the business but why don't you clarify that Dave? Okay.
We're not seeing increases in the market currently and we don't have any price increases on siding that are planned.
We're as always watching the raw material market and if need be we'll adjust.
But there is nothing that we're seeing from competition and we have no current plans other than to obviously react if the market calls for it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just on the raw material side then I assume most of that's under control at this point? Yes.
It is.
The one thing though that we are anticipating is that we're going to have -- there's going to be some price pressure on increases in polypropylene prices.
Now so far this year those prices have been lower than prior year and so we've actually had a little bit of a tailwind relative to the polypropylene prices.
But what we are anticipating is those prices are going to go up and that's where we're going to have to monitor the situation very closely relative to a price increase related to those increases in polypropylene raw material cost.
And we'll be monitoring the market relative to how people react to changes in the raw material cost over the next quarter or so.
That's something that we got to stay very attuned to because those prices can change quite rapidly and we are anticipating an increase in polypropylene prices over the next quarter or so.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
That's helpful.
And just last question based on the updated guidance I would imagine you guys should be generating some pretty decent free cash flow for the year.
How do you guys think about proceeds in allocating capital.
Any anticipation of repurchasing bonds tuck-in acquisitions? I guess just generically what's the focus going forward? And do you all have a leverage target maybe that your looking to work around? So we are -- our first priority is our balance sheet and so our use of cash is to -- first and foremost is to ensure that we reduce our gross leverage.
And so we got about $55 million of subordinated debt that is due in February of 2014 and that's our #1 priority.
And we -- based upon our current cash position and the cash flow that we will generate between now and then we feel very comfortable that we're going to be able to repay that debt when it comes due.
Then we have about $49 million of debt due in 2016 and that becomes the next priority is to ensure that we will retire that debt as it comes due.
Now in the meantime we might go into the marketplace.
We do have the ability to take out some of the 2014 debt.
Our senior debt covenants do not allow us to prepay any of the 2016 debt.
And so we will be in that debt until 2016.
We do have an ability to take out some of our senior debt and depending upon our free cash flow and the generation of cash we may be in a position to take out some of that senior debt.
The response to your last question we would like to be in the debt-to-EBITDA ratio between 2.5 and 3x taking into account the cyclicality of the business.
And so we feel pretty comfortable that we're going to get there and we're going to be at that ratio and we continue to move in that direction and focus on the balance sheet.
So as far as acquisitions are concerned we will look at opportunities where the adjacency to what we are doing makes sense as long as our balance sheet is front and center in the decision-making and that we don't do anything that disrupts our direction of de-risking and de-leveraging the business.
And our next question does comes from David Daglio with The Boston Company.
LLC</strong> A couple of questions on the sale of the coal assets you mentioned potential reoccurring EBITDA for about 8 years will you capitalize that in the sale or will you just accrue that as they come? I think what we're probably going to do is we'll accrue it as we get those payments.
That's the more conservative way of recognizing the gain.
In effect what that does is it defers the gain until you actually receive the cash.
And so I think that's the accounting treatment that we're going to pursue.
LLC</strong> Maybe a follow-up to that do you expect -- what are the odds you would put on receiving either all or some of that $54 million? I don't want to set an expectation higher than reality but there is a fair amount of capital that's being invested in these facilities.
And so I think that we've got a fairly good likelihood of receiving a part or a significant part of those future royalty repayments.
And the reason I say that is because there is a fairly significant amount of capital that's being invested.
I know that the buyer has -- as I indicated in my script we needed 3 things to make this work.
We needed someone that can find feedstock arrange offtake agreements and then we needed to have capital.
We were able to put together all 3 of those conditions.
So the new feedstock arrangements are quite positive and the capital was used to put the equipment in touch with those new sources of feedstock.
And so as people spend money to put the facilities in the location where the feedstock is situated and offtake agreements are in place then we're going to get some production which means that we're going to get paid royalties.
And so I think the likelihood is on the higher side that we're going to get paid part or a significant portion of those royalty payments.
LLC</strong> My last question is on fly ash pricing.
And I'm curious as these coal plants shut down in these regional markets are you seeing any bump in fly ash pricing as -- presumably there's less supply of that material and maybe that would have a difference or are you just price taking from the Portland cement and it doesn't matter at all? No I think it does matter and we are -- the pricing with Portland cement is a very important consideration and something that clearly has an impact on our pricing capabilities is what the Portland cement folks do.
In addition to that when you get a facility that might shut down and we transport ash into that market you can also have a -- we would attempt to get a price increase related to the increase in transportation cost if we had to move ash a greater distance or from a different source then that also has an impact on pricing.
So there's really both things that are going on.
The changing in Portland cement pricing is very very important but you also have a change in the source and transportation of the ash and that can have an impact on pricing as well.
And we have time for one final question and it does come from the line of Jeff Bernstein with AH Lisanti Capital Growth.
I just wanted to revisit on the heavy construction material side again.
I guess the lower operating rates at utilities sounded like it was a seasonal and economic-related issue.
Do you sort of change where you're sourcing fly ash as a result of that? Is that just a temporary issue? Can you just go through that a little bit? I think one of the things that we ought to clarify for sure and that is some of our comments were directed to the services part of the business.
And so if you have a utility that produces less electricity that means that they're producing less ash that we dispose off for them and so our revenue declines because of the reduced disposal revenue.
And that had an impact on us because the fixed cost nature of that business and that did negatively impact our margins in the quarter.
From a perspective of the marketing the ash that had less of an impact on us.
In certain circumstances it can have a short-term impact.
As an example we had a short term shutdown of a facility called Sammus in Ohio and that facility was a source of high-quality ash and what happened when that facility temporarily shut down is that we had to transport ash from other sources.
And so it didn't have -- the shutdown of the facility didn't necessarily have an impact in the total tons that we sell.
It did have an impact on our transportation cost as we had to reroute ash to supply that Sammus market.
Now what's going to happen it's coming back online and so that turned out to be a temporary disruption in our supply sources.
And so generally from a marketing of ash what we've seen relative to changes in electricity production and power demand from an ash sales perspective those have only been temporary changes.
Bill do you want add any color to that response? I think you basically hit the nail on the head but yes the site services is impacted by the fixed cost and there is a difference between that and the supply.
But we've invested quite a lot in our logistics infrastructure so when we see some of these short term or temporary shutdowns at coal-fired units on the supply side we've typically been able to quickly react and continue to supply a market from another source.
Okay.
So I guess Peabody this morning was talking about the US Coal fleet running at only 55% utilization but they're expecting that to be improving so we should expect that you'll get some leverage on costs.
You'll get some -- you'll avoid some frictional type cost that happen in a lower utilization environment if they are in fact correct going forward? I think that's generally true.
We do this -- there's a lot of change going on right now as you can imagine.
And that's what Peabody was kind of speaking to.
And so as we get back to more normal production levels we should see a reduction in the variability which should ultimately improve our performance.
And at this time I would like to turn the call back over to management for any closing comments.
If there are no further questions I think we'll go ahead and end the call.
We'd like to thank you all for your participation.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that will conclude the conference for today.
If you would like to listen to a replay of this conference you may do so by dialing either (303) 590-3030 or 1 (800) 406-7325.
You will need to enter the access code of 4592382.
Again we do thank you for your participation on today's call.
You may now disconnect your lines at this time.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Headwaters Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Conference Call on the 30th of April 2013.
[Operator Instructions] I will now hand the conference over to Tricia Ross of Financial Profiles.
Please go ahead Madam.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for Headwaters Incorporated Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Conference Call.
There are slides accompanying today's presentation that can be found on the webcast link at the Headwaters Incorporated website under the Events and Presentations link.
Please go there to follow along with the slides.
If you have any issues accessing the slides please feel free to email me at tross@semprofiles.com and I also can email you a PDF copy.
I would now like to turn the call over to Sharon Madden Vice President of Investor Relations at Headwaters.
Thank you Tricia.
Good morning and thank you for joining us as we report Headwaters' fiscal 2013 Q2 results.
Kirk Benson Headwaters' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Don Newman Headwaters' Chief Financial Officer will be heading the call this morning along with Bill Gehrmann who is President of Headwaters Resources and Heavy Construction Materials segment; and Dave Ulmer who is President of Tapco International.
While listening to today's call please remember that certain statements made during the call including statements related to our expected future business and financial performance may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 both as amended.
Forward-looking statements by their very nature address matters that are to different degrees uncertain.
These uncertainties are described in more detail in Headwaters' annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
You can find Headwaters' annual report on Form 10-K our quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings readily available from the SEC's website Headwaters' website or directly from the company.
I'll now turn the call over to Kirk Benson.
Kirk? Thank you Sharon.
We had a good March quarter.
And excluding the revenue from Kleer Lumber which we acquired in December revenue grew in both our light and heavy construction materials segments.
We were particularly pleased with the performance of our block products in the Texas market and our stone products because of its exposure to new residential construction.
Siding revenue was softer because growth in repair and remodel did not offset a more difficult winter in 2013 compared to 2012 but we are well-positioned for improvement in the repair-remodel end markets as revenue will increase as we move into the summer months.
The nation continues to recover from the depressed level from new residential housing starts.
In March the seasonally adjusted annual rate of housing starts was above $1 million for the first time since June of 2008.
Despite the improvement nationally the unfavorable comparison of winter weather for last quarter negatively impacted unadjusted single-family starts in the Northeast leading to less than 7% growth year-over-year versus a national growth rate of over 28%.
In 2012 the inverse was true due to the mild winter weather as single-family starts in the Northeast grew 20% in the March quarter versus a national rate of 18%.
As you would expect in areas less affected by winter weather we experienced revenue growth from improving end markets.
We are well-positioned with both fly ash and manufacturing capacity to take advantage of increases in demand as our end markets improve.
During the winter quarters we effectively managed cost and we were able to realize some price increases.
Effective cost management and price increases will be beneficial as volume levels improve during the construction season.
Our growth in adjusted EBITDA of 6% was primarily driven by price increases in both segments volume in stone and block and the addition of Kleer Lumber.
The increases in adjusted EBITDA were offset by lower volume in fly ash and our energy segment performance.
Excluding our energy segment adjusted EBITDA would have grown 14%.
The integration of Kleer is proceeding smoothly.
Revenue was impacted by weather in the New England area but overall performance was as we expected.
We are pleased with the addition of technical sales and operational personnel at Kleer.
We believe we are on track to achieve our projected synergies and move adjusted EBITDA into the 16% range as planned.
We continue to make progress on our balance sheet.
We repaid $15.3 million of our debt that would have matured in 2014.
Even without including the current cash flow cycle our cash on hand exceeds the amount of debt due next February.
Although adjusted EBITDA from the first 6 months of the year is flat we expect sufficient growth in the second half to put us in the forecasted range of $110 million to $125 million.
But now I'd like to turn the time over to Don for a financial review of the quarter.
Thank you Kirk.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Before discussing Slide 4 I wanted to mention that we intend to file our Form 10-Q later this week.
My comments today will be directed to the slides that were sent out this morning and to a lesser extent the condensed consolidated balance sheets and statements of operations that were attached to the press release.
Starting with Slide 4 our second quarter revenue from continuing operations was $141 million up $11.4 million or 9% from the prior year revenue of $129.6 million which reflects growth from the Kleer acquisition as well as organic growth.
Second quarter adjusted EBITDA was $13.3 million up 6% year-over-year.
EBITDA in our core business which excludes energy and discontinued operations was up 14% year-over-year despite the severe weather conditions that were experienced in 2013.
Our year-to-date revenue from continuing operations is $290.6 million up $23.5 million or 9% from 2012 reflecting 5% organic growth in our core segments.
Even though 2012 was clearly a mild winter our business performed well versus a very tough comp.
We typically generate 70% to 75% of our earnings in the June and September quarter but we're in a good position to see increased sales as the building season hits in the Midwest and Northeast.
With that we continue to be on track to generate a net profit for full fiscal year 2013.
Let's move on to Slide 5 for a closer look at the quarter's financial results.
Light building products revenue increased $10.5 million including the Kleer acquisition.
Organic growth in light building products in the quarter was primarily in stone and in block.
Our siding business saw its sales decrease year-over-year as a result of the more severe snow conditions and lower average temperatures in 2013.
Heavy construction materials revenue increased $2.8 million or 5% as price increases and revenue from new service contracts served to offset lower marketing volumes impacted by winter weather conditions.
Energy technology revenue was down $1.9 million year-over-year due to timing of customer shipments.
Gross profit was $32.4 million a 3% increase from the prior year.
Gross margins were 23% in the quarter down from 24.3% last year.
Margins were negatively impacted by sales mix and a $600 000 acquisition accounting adjustment related to Kleer.
We expect sales mix to return to a more typical profile as we go through the building season.
SG&amp;A increased $900 000 largely due to adding Kleer SG&amp;A to our cost structures.
Compensation tied to cash-settled SARs impacted by stock price increased year-over-year.
However that expense was largely offset by decreases in other compensation areas.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations totaled $13.3 million up from $12.5 million in 2012.
Interest expense decreased $2.4 million as a result of debt repayment activity.
Because we expect to generate net income for the full fiscal 2013 we recognized the tax benefit related to the current quarter's loss.
In 2013 we expect to record income taxes at an effective rate of approximately 14% due to state income taxes in certain jurisdictions and to a small federal alternative minimum tax.
We ended the quarter with more than $200 million of pre-tax NOLs and nearly $25 million of tax credits.
That will shelter significant income from continuing operations in the future.
We closed the sale of our coal cleaning plants in January and we recorded a $3.1 million book gain on the sale during the quarter.
We expect to collect approximately $10 million of cash for the sale of the coal cleaning business over the next 3 quarters.
Now let's move to Slide 6 and talk about the year-to-date financial results.
Revenue from continuing operations year-to-date increased $23.5 million or 9% year-over-year to $290.6 million.
Light building products revenue increased $13.9 million including revenue from the Kleer acquisition.
Year-to-date organic growth in the light building products has been seen from the stone and the block businesses primarily due to a combination of their end market and geographic exposures.
The siding business saw its revenue decrease year-over-year largely due to winter weather conditions in the second quarter as I've mentioned.
Heavy construction material revenue increased $7.8 million or 7% as price increases and revenue from new service contracts served to offset lower marketing volumes which were impacted by winter weather conditions.
Energy technology revenue increased $1.9 million year-over-year due to customer outages in 2012.
Gross profit year-to-date is $69.7 million a 6% increase from 2012.
Gross margins are 24% year-to-date down from 24.7% in 2012.
The modest decline in margins reflects sales mix in the light building products business and also margins in our heavy construction materials segment being impacted by revenues associated with new service contracts and the expiration of a contract in 2012 that was highly profitable.
SG&amp;A increased $4.1 million year-over-year largely due to adding Kleer SG&amp;A to our cost structures and to acquisition-related costs associated with the Kleer acquisition as well as to compensation tied to stock price.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations totaled $33 million which is up slightly from 2012 despite the challenging weather conditions this year.
Our net losses have been trimmed 68% down from $44.3 million last year to $14.1 million in 2013 as we've improved the operating income reduced interest expense and sold nonstrategic businesses as we progress toward what we expect to be a positive bottom line in 2013.
Now let's move to Slide 7 and spend a few minutes discussing debt.
Our debt position continues to improve.
During the quarter we repurchased $15.3 million of convertible notes bringing the remaining debt maturing in February 2014 to under $40 million.
Our liquidity remains above $100 million and we expect to generate approximately $40 million of free cash flow in fiscal 2013.
We closed the current quarter with a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 4.7:1 and continue to progress in our goal to maintain reasonable levels of financial leverage across the cycle.
Starting on Slide 8 Dave will cover light building products.
Thanks Don and good morning everybody.
On Slide 8 you can see revenues from our light building products segment for the quarter grew $10.5 million to $84.8 million an increase of 14% compared to the second quarter of fiscal year 2012.
Excluding the acquisition of Kleer revenues increased 3.2% for the quarter.
Weather paid a large factor for the quarter in 2012.
In 2012 we had a mild winter that pulled forward demand into our second quarter.
With our product lines being placed on the exterior of the home weather patterns are an important factor on when they are purchased.
We are pleased with the growth of organic revenues year-over-year given the difficult comp to last year's second quarter.
One major reason for the growth is the strength of new housing starts.
According to the Census Bureau non-seasonally adjusted single-family housing starts for the 3 months ended March 31 2013 were 28% higher than housing starts for the 3 months ended March 31 2012.
For our fiscal year-to-date single-family starts are also up 28% as the growth in single-family starts has been more consistent than the volatile multifamily start numbers.
Economists continue to be optimistic as they forecast 2013 for both new housing starts and remodeling.
In addition to our positive exposure to new residential end markets our block product group has been positively impacted by the strength of the market in Texas.
The growth in Texas has and will lead to the building schools commercial and institutional projects and residential projects that positively impact our results.
Weakness for the quarter came from our siding product group which was negatively impacted by unfavorable weather conditions and the lack of material growth in repair and remodel end markets.
As Kirk touched on earlier the integration of Kleer is progressing as planned and we continue to be excited about the new products that provides Headwaters.
Now let's discuss margins.
Gross profit and adjusted EBITDA margins both declined for the second quarter when compared to last year.
The largest factor was sales mix.
Revenue growth was led by the addition of Kleer and improved performance from our block product group which both have lower margins than our other light building products groups.
Kleer performed in line with expectations given their end market exposure and excluding the onetime acquisition-related charge that negatively impacted gross margins but was an adjustment to EBITDA.
Margins for Kleer will improve as we integrate it fully into the siding group.
We also experienced some material and transportation cost pressure in the quarter but we feel these pressures are manageable and some have already declined off their elevated levels.
Year-to-date revenues for the light building products segment have increased $14 million or 9% while adjusted EBITDA is up $0.5 million to $23.5 million.
Slide 9 illustrates what we've already discussed.
Revenue growth grew over last year in the first and second quarters as adjusted EBITDA saw a growth in the first quarter but was essentially flat for the second quarter.
Now I'll turn the presentation over to Bill.
Thanks Dave and good morning everybody.
On Slides 10 and 11 you can see that revenue for the March 2013 quarter in our heavy construction materials business was $54 million compared to $51.2 million for the March 2012 quarter resulting in a 5% year-over-year increase.
Headwaters' plant services provide site services to many of our utility clients.
Site service revenue was up year-over-year for the March quarter primarily due to new service contracts and accounted for approximately 34% of our overall revenue for the quarter.
Since these services typically have lower operating margins in our product sales the larger mix of services in the December and March quarters contribute to a lower overall EBITDA margin for the segment.
We also saw a return to the normal seasonality of our product sales as we experienced a more normal winter weather pattern in most parts of the country.
This resulted in a 6% year-over-year decrease in the tons of high-value fly ash shipped for the March 2013 quarter driven by reductions in the Midwest and Northeast.
Cement shipments for January and February were up 2% led by Texas Florida and the Western U.S.
which were up 12% while the rest of the country was down 7%.
As the construction season progresses our fly ash shipment will expand and we anticipate that our total fly ash shipments for 2013 will exceed 2012.
During the quarter we realized a net 5% year-over-year price increase for high-value fly ash.
Gross profits for the March 2013 quarter increased 7% to $10.6 million compared to $9.9 million for the March 2012 quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA for the March 2013 quarter increased 8% to $6.9 million compared to $6.4 million for the March 2012 quarter.
In the March quarter we implemented a cost reduction plan to remove $4 million of annualized cost from the business.
Those reductions come from a combination of rightsizing our equipment fleet and headcount to our current service requirement and streamlining our management and support.
The U.S.
EPA is proposing a rule aimed at curbing wastewater discharges from coal-fired and nuclear power planted.
Instead it is looking to align new standards with the proposed fly ash disposal regulation.
The EPA indicated that information under review could provide strong support for a conclusion that regulation of coal combustion products disposal under record Subtitle D would be adequate.
While we have felt positive for some time as the direction of the EPA was away from Subtitle C designation this is the first formal statement.
The idea of viewing the wastewater regulations and the solid disposal regulations together is a positive direction for CCP disposal.
Also in April the U.S.
House Subcommittee on environment and the economy held a hearing on draft legislation to establish national standards for the disposal of fly ash.
Legislative language that basically mirrors last year's Senate bill is expected to be introduced in the house soon.
Winter electric generation has allowed us to inventory fly ash supply and higher year-over-year natural gas prices have resulted in an improved supply outlook for us as we begin to move into the construction season.
As I indicated before we anticipate an increase in high-quality fly ash tons sold.
I'll now turn the call back over to Kirk.
Thank you Bill.
As you can see on Slide 12 our revenue on our energy segment declined by almost $2 million having a negative impact on consolidated adjusted EBITDA.
The decline is primarily related to the timing of orders.
There is also a refinery turnaround planned in the June quarter that could continue to impact timing.
As you look at Slide 13 you can see the negative impact on consolidated EBITDA was approximately $1 million.
Turning to Slide 14 we continue to affirm our guidance of $110 million to $125 million of adjusted EBITDA in 2013.
There are obvious caveats related to the guidance but with the pickup in revenue from our siding group and continued strong sales of block and stone we should perform well in the June and September quarters.
I'd now like to turn the time back over to the operator for the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Al Kaschalk from Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'm going to first start on the light building products.
Two things.
One Kirk can you share what you have seen on the R&amp;R market here as we turned into third quarter? I know weather has been an impact but there seem to be some positive sightings and some tone certainly in the release that would suggest that there's some tailwind here or at least some buildup in strength in that market.
Yes I think that it's hard to tell during the winter months.
So that's the first comment is the winter months particularly in the upper Midwest Northeast tends to mask what's going on with fundamental demand.
So you always have that caveat coming out of the March quarter.
And that said I think that we would be surprised if we don't have an increase in sales in the June and September quarters compared to last year in our repair and remodel market.
I mean we're not expecting like double-digit growth or anything like that relative to repair and remodel.
But there is the -- I think that there's a fairly good chance that we'll have a positive year-over-year comp in the repair and remodel markets.
And of course we've got Dave.
Dave is the President of our siding group and so he is very close to our customers in the repair and remodel side.
In fact Dave's prior position was our lead sales person.
So he has very close relationships with a number -- with all of our wholesale distributors.
So Dave do you feel the same way about the repair and remodel markets going into the June and September quarters? I do.
I feel positive that -- and customers are generally feeling positive about what's going on.
They -- it's been harder to get our hands around it because of the weather as you said Kirk and the new housing it's easier to see and easier to track sometimes than some of those remodeling numbers.
But customers have -- we've started to see a surge in activities from them and inventory and those kinds of things which means they feel good about what they're seeing in the market as we start in the Midwest to see spring even though other areas are ahead of us already.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-on to that is there a way -- can you call out the margin impact from mix? And then second the elevated cost I don't -- material on transportation I don't know if that's something that will be collected here going forward or if it's lost but certainly it would suggest potential price increases given some of your elevated cost.
Or were those was strategic decisions? But if you could partial out maybe the shortfall in margin in the segment relative to your expectations of both mix and cost.
Yes I don't think that the transportation costs and even raw material costs were material.
The most significant impact on our margins was sales mix.
And so I think if -- and there's 2 things going on with sales mix.
One is the addition of Kleer Lumber.
And so the adjusted EBITDA from Kleer Lumber is below our expectations of where it will be as we get our synergies put in place and as we expand its top line through additional distribution.
So we're comfortable and where we are at it's exactly -- it came up very very close to where we expected it to be.
And with the synergies that we're putting in place we think it will be with those improvements where we expected it to be in 2013.
So it's very much on track.
But that mix does have a little bit of a negative impact on overall EBITDA margins.
So there is that aspect.
And then the other aspect is that you -- we had a decline in volume in the siding group primarily because of the winter weather.
And so there's those 2 things going on in sales mix by the -- those are the 2 things that primarily drove the impact on margins.
So I think if the -- if we had not had the winter weather impact we would have overcome the margin related to Kleer and our EBITDA margins would have been better in the March quarter than they were last year.
And so you're probably talking at least 100 basis points impact in margins based on mix.
Research Division</strong> And finally if I may I'll sneak 1 in here.
On the heavy building side it looks like you had a fairly strong pricing quarter.
And I was wondering if we could comment on that and then secondly the tons that were sold in the quarter? Yes I'll share with you my thoughts and then Bill can add color to that.
I think that most of the price increases are set in the spring and early summer months.
And so what we saw in the March quarter was approximately a net price increase of 5% in the March quarter of 2013 compared to 2012.
And so what's happening right now is Bill's folks are working on the price increases for the summer 2013 that will go on through the 12/31 and the March quarter of 2014.
And so it's an indication that the price increases that we put in place in last year in 2012 stuck and that we were able to achieve those price increases.
So we feel good about the 5% net price increase in the quarter.
And given the pricing environment with the portland cement we also think that there is the opportunity going into the construction season to have some price increases for the remainder of 2013 and then into the March quarter of 2014.
So we feel pretty good about that.
I think from a volume perspective the impact is almost entirely related to weather because of what happened in the upper Midwest and Northeast.
And so we're anticipating that our total volume for the year 2013 will exceed 2012.
And we feel very good about how we're positioned with our heavy segment.
So Bill? Yes just...
Add color to that.
Yes just a little more color.
As Kirk said typically at the end of the calendar year we start to implement price increases.
And those will go into effect all the way into May and June.
So we're starting to see those take place.
We monitor those pricing targets at the 80-plus sites that we sell product out of.
It looks like we're on track.
So as Kirk mentioned I think there is some continued upside in our pricing and obviously we'll aggressively go after that as we get into the construction season.
So we feel pretty good there.
As far as the volumes go obviously the year-over-year reduction is attributed to the return to a more normal winter.
And that impact comes from 2 different reasons.
One obviously a normal winter.
We're going to see reduced ready-mix yardages put out there.
The other piece to that is mix designs change in the winter for concrete setting up in colder temperatures.
And typically a winter mix design will have a little less fly ash in it.
So you had 2 contributors there Al.
But as Kirk pointed out we feel good about our volumes moving forward fully expect 2013 to exceed 2012.
As we talked to our customers throughout the country they're beginning to feel very positive about the outlook.
And for the first time in a while we're actually hearing them talk about backlogs of work as they move into the construction season.
So yes we feel pretty good.
The next question comes from John Quealy from Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> Kirk if we look at the back half of the year if you can sensitize expectations in the model with me for a second.
Last year light building products was fairly muted growth 5% and 6% in the back half of the year by quarter.
CC -- sorry heavy construction was much better 15% on average.
Can you sensitize your $110 million to $125 million what you need to see in those 2 lines in the back half of the year to get either the low end or the high end of the guidance? Or what should we think about here as we get to the important Q3 print? I think that the -- from a top line perspective I think we're generally on track to achieve what we need to to drive our EBITDA growth.
A lot of the EBITDA growth in the back half of the year is going to be reflected in the financial statements of the SG&amp;A line as opposed to the top line.
I think that the top line growth is going to be positive and certainly going to move us in the right direction.
But I think we're going to have some -- from a comparison perspective I think we're going to have some -- you're going to see improvements in the SG&amp;A part of the business.
I think Don should add additional color to that response.
Let me see if I can take a run at this and give you some perspective.
Last year in the second half I think we generated something in the neighborhood of $58 million to $60 million of EBITDA.
And when you think about that number that was -- that included about $15.5 million of above target compensation.
And although we'd expect some of that above target to repeat this year because the stock prices obviously performed well let's just take that $15.5 million as an adjustment when you think about last year to this year.
That means that last year's second half results would be in the $73 million to $75 million EBITDA range.
Does that make sense so far? Research Division</strong> Sure does yes.
Okay.
So you think about our guidance this year at a $110 million to $125 million let's pick the midpoint of $117.5 million just to make the math kind of hold together a little bit.
Year-to-date we recognized about $33 million of that $117.5 million in this example which would mean that in the second half we'd expect to generate $84.5 million.
So $84.5 million versus $73 million to $75 million last year.
So there is a significant year-over-year increase which I think is what you're talking about right? Research Division</strong> That's correct.
And so when you start thinking about the components that bridge that a couple of things come to mind.
First Kleer.
Kleer we've said that we would expect to generate something in the neighborhood of about $5 million of EBITDA in this year of ownership.
Last quarter we obviously picked up some of that.
But I would expect for the balance of the year we'd be in the neighborhood of about $4 million of Kleer EBITDA this year that we didn't have last year.
Another thing that comes to mind is what Bill just brought up which was the fact that his team has brought to the table some cost savings and efficiency initiatives that should add something in the neighborhood of a couple of million dollars year-over-year to what we had last year versus this year.
So between those 2 wrapped up my head there's about $6 million.
Then you think about the remainder it's in a $5 million range.
And you think about what's happened in end markets last year to this year and what I would say just not having much time to think about other bridge items if you think about if all of that $5 million needed to be covered by end market recoveries I think that that's not a crazy number when it comes to thinking about our business and us now getting into the more profitable portion of our year Q3 Q4.
And I think 2 things that are going on that are kind of very interesting.
One is the increase in demand in the block business in Texas.
And the thing that is very positive is that even though the EBITDA margins in our block product group are lower than the margins in stone and siding because of the increased demand we're able to get better utilization of our fixed cost and our manufacturing capacity.
And what that does is even though those margins are lower it still drives those margins up.
And so if you look at the activity in January February and March we're moving in the direction that the margin trend is back to where we were in 2011 when we peaked in the block group in margins.
And so that's very positive as far as the improvements in the end markets because you can see the margin improvement in the block product group as a result of that top line growth.
And that bodes very well for the next 6 months as far as exceeding our internal expectations which is the direction that that's moving.
The other thing that's happening because of the residential exposure to the stone group and stone -- in 2011 we made some very significant cost improvements in our structure in 2011.
That led to improved margins in 2012.
And what's happening now is that based on that improved cost structure we're seeing top line growth because of the exposure to the residential construction.
And so what's happening there is we're having a little bit of margin expansion there as well.
And so for the second half of the year we feel very good about stones' contribution to our forecasted EBITDA.
Research Division</strong> And just in terms of the weighting Q3 Q4 on EBITDA generally 50-50 60-40.
What do you think about this year? Any changes materially in that mix? I think it probably is in the 50-50 range.
What happens historically is that the light products group their EBITDA peaks in the June quarter and then trails off a little bit in the September quarter.
The opposite is true for the heavy side.
You have -- it peaks in the September quarter.
And so you base it.
But -- and the variation isn't extreme.
And so you end up with about a 50-50.
But you've got a little bit of different mix going on between light and heavy between the June and September quarters.
But it's about 50-50.
The next question comes from Dan Mannes from Avondale.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of quick follow-up questions.
First as you talk about the weather can you maybe give us a little bit of a walk through maybe the months of the first quarter and then April? My impression is historically March is kind of the key quarter for the March quarter or the month of March is the key month in the quarter for both ash shipments as well to some degree on light building product side.
Can you talk about how March played out and maybe then transitioned out into how April looks so far? So of course Dave works mostly with our siding product group and so let me respond on the light side as to what happened during the quarter and then Bill can talk a little bit about the heavy side.
What you just said is absolutely true.
You go until about the middle of March and then you start to see activity pick up.
What happened this year in the block and that's really what happened in this quarter in block and stone is that stone had a -- stone was really -- they had a positive comp compared to last year because of exposure to new residential markets and I think we saw that come through in the stone group.
And what we have seen as we moved through March and into April is that continue trend.
So that's one of the reasons that we feel pretty good about the next 6 months from a stone product group because you can see that you can see that positive year-over-year continuing into April.
The block group is a little bit different because it's not -- they've got some exposure to new residential construction but what's driving their numbers is some additional revenue that we picked up at Lowe's and that does have it has some commercial impact.
But also it has -- it's more of the new residential construction.
So we have a little more exposure there but we've picked up some additional revenue from Lowe's.
And then the other thing that's happening is -- that were so successful public school bonds.
We're seeing commercial activity improving.
I think the commercial activity is improving in a response to the demographics and to the improved residential construction as Texas continues to grow.
So we're seeing increased commercial institutional and then as I said we had this little pickup in business from Lowe's.
So I think that -- and so Dave why don't you talk about just a little bit on what you're seeing on the repair and remodel side and what you're seeing as we've gotten through March and into April on the siding group? And then Bill can respond for ash.
Yes I mean you don't want to continually go back to weather.
But leaving March obviously was a good thing because we had so much snow and so much bad weather.
But like Kirk said we are in the midst of rebounding strongly in April and seeing all indications that we are going to exceed last year going forward.
And we -- as we said everything is positive looking into remodeling markets.
They're positive looking at the inventory the customers are bringing in and we have every expectation that we're going to exceed what was done last year at the end of the June quarter by the simple fact that where we're pointing to now and the consistency in the strength of orders and the feedback that we're getting from customers about jobs.
Yes.
So Bill why don't you talk a little bit better about fly ash.
Yes Dan as far as the volume trends we've actually seen a positive year-over-year comp trend from it was fairly consistent from January to February to March.
We felt good about that.
It's compared to cement which actually had a negative trend from January to February.
So we feel good about our positive trend there.
Moving into April we feel good about the continued trend.
We have a little winter hangover in a few spots but excluding that yes we feel good and we mentioned it several times previously on the call.
We feel very good about the outlook for our 2013 volumes when compared to 2012.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sounds good.
One quick follow-up for Bill on the EPA on the water discharge.
How do you think this plays out as it relates to sort of the co-proposal? I mean does this come back? Does this change the way it plays out? Or I don't know if you can give us your crystal ball in terms of what EPA does next as it relates to the specific coal ash regulations.
Kirk you may want to provide a little color on this.
It's -- we actually discussed that a little bit this morning Dan.
And we mentioned we feel it's beginning -- we're seeing the EPA begin to send the message.
But it's difficult that they've been wrestling with the regulation of CCPs now for 20 or 30 years.
But we do view this as a positive move.
And there's just so many moving pieces with various regulations impacting utilities that this is just a small piece in the overall regulation.
So it may be a little too early to tell where it exactly fits in and how quickly it may move from here.
But from our perspective this was -- I'm looking for the superlative word to use.
Positive signal? This was -- I mean it was great.
To get the EPA to say what they said was the most important development in this issue in the last 4 years.
And whether they're going to be able to complete the regulations by the court imposed deadline in 2014 that's what Bill is saying we don't know.
But what we do know is that in the last 6 months we sensed a turning point.
And I mentioned that on the last conference call that you can't -- it's not -- it wasn't anything other than attending dozens of meetings on this issue in D.C.
What you felt was that sometime last fall late summer last fall kind of timeframe that this issue turned and it turned in our favor.
And so to have the EPA be explicit with the caveats that they have.
And so you can't declare absolute victory on this issue.
But what you can -- but you can -- because there's caveats with what the EPA's language that it used.
But there -- this is absolutely the most positive thing that has been said on this issue in the last 4 years and it is a very strong indication that we'll end up with Subtitle D regulation.
Whether it happens in 2014 or not that's what Bill is alluding to we don't know.
And the EPA has been very methodical in going through this process.
And so we can't predict the timing of final regulations.
But it's such a powerful message that they sent that the most likely outcome is a Subtitle D regulation.
I mean we feel very very good about the statement that was made by the EPA.
The next question comes from Philip Volpicelli from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> My question is with regards to light building products and the pricing that you're seeing in the different pieces.
Could you just discuss what you're seeing for stone siding and block pricing? Yes I think that on -- the stone pricing has been through the down cycle has been very stable.
And we've been able to maintain this -- we have these -- we have 3 products the good better and best market segmentation strategy.
And we have -- we've maintained those price points.
And so we've not been aggressive in raising prices but what we've been able to do successfully is to grow our business at all 3 price points.
And that we feel very positive about that from our stone perspective particularly with the way that the market has evolved and we feel strongly that we have the highest quality product from an aesthetic point of view in the marketplace today.
And we've been able to maintain the price associated with that aesthetic quality.
From a block perspective we have given the increase in demand and the change in the market there.
We have been able to increase our pricing in the block group.
And so I think that from a stone perspective we have been stable to slightly up in pricing.
We've gotten just a little bit of price increase.
The block group we're talking more in the 5% kind of price increase in the block group.
And the siding product group we put some price increases in place last year that have stuck in the marketplace.
And so we don't have any immediate plans for dramatic price increases in the siding group.
But that could change with market conditions.
But Dave why don't you add a little bit to the -- to your perspective from the siding group? Okay.
We -- The first thing is we are having on some of our -- now I wouldn't say on some of the -- not on the core building products items but we are having some increases on some of our product categories.
But what we've -- we had 2 price increases.
While 1 affected the end of last year previous to that we had another 1.
So we had 2 in a 12-month period of time.
Raw materials were starting to spike a few months ago and we thought we may have to have more price increases.
But we've actually as I said in my part of the presentation we've started to see raw materials the cost drop back down from what those levels were.
So at this point it does not look like we need to have further increases with where costs are.
But if they go up again then we have to address it.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And how big was the siding volume decline year-over-year? Can you quantify that? The -- it was -- I mean it's like a couple of percentage points is all that it is.
So it's not particularly significant.
Nevertheless it was enough to drive the mix and the impact on adjusted EBITDA.
I think that it's in the like a 3 -- from a revenue perspective I think it was in the $3 million range something like that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last question for me.
Obviously you guys had the maturity of the 2.5% notes in February 14 and you've got plenty of cash on the balance sheet to satisfy that.
Are you looking at other tuck-in acquisitions with the additional cash you expect to generate the second half of the year something the size of Kleer? Is there anything else out there? There are -- there's opportunities for us yes.
I think we feel very good about what we did with Kleer and I think we have sufficient cash to do a small acquisition if we were -- if we found there are some.
And so if we are able to bring a tuck-in acquisition to the table then we would be inclined to do that.
But that said if we were able to find 1 get it negotiated at a pricing that would be clearly accretive and using the cash off our balance sheet that would be an accretive thing to do.
It actually would be hard to do an acquisition that would not be accretive relative to using cash off our balance sheet.
Research Division</strong> Yes that makes sense.
How much liquidity do you guys feel you need so to kind of back into what you could be able to spend on an acquisition? And Don is going to respond to this as well but we're over $100 million.
And I think we're probably $30 million or $40 million more liquidity than we need.
Yes so I would say something in that neighborhood.
We've got a revolver that's in our back pocket that we try to be pretty conservative in the use of and then we'll maintain adequate cash above that.
So something in the range of what Kirk said is pretty rational.
The final question comes from Seth Yeager from Jefferies.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> I guess most of my stuff has been answered.
Just around -- just a couple of cleanup items.
For the restructuring that you guys had noted as far as headcount reduction or what it may have been in the heavy materials business I didn't see that with any material add backs in your adjusted EBITDA for the quarter.
Was that subsequent to quarter end? Or were there any cash severance charges or anything that you guys took? So this is Don I'll take a shot at that.
We actually didn't have any significant costs to capture those efficiency savings that Bill took in his business.
So that's why you didn't see any significant add backs.
Did I miss anything on that Bill? No no.
There was some related severance but we took that in the quarter.
Yes it was very modest though.
So there were some expenses.
But it -- we try to not note -- we try to not have adjustments to EBITDA unless they're larger numbers.
We don't want to nickel and dime the results when it comes to adjustments.
We want to make sure it's material and important information to the market.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Yes it now makes sense I appreciate that.
And then just as -- thinking about Kleer I mean it's smaller in terms of the overall size of the business.
But just CapEx or overall capital requirements for that business expansion plans going forward anything that we should sort of think about with that particular business at it starts to ramp up? Yes I think our plans would be that we may need to do some expansion in the 2014 timeframe depending on how successful we are in growing the top line.
And then that's in the range of like $3 million to $5 million when we do that expansion.
But it's either 2014 activity probably starting in 2014 with 2015 use of the expanded capacity.
And then from a working capital demand standpoint Kleer is actually a very efficient organization.
So there's not a significant working capital demand related to that business.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay.
And just last one on the fly ash business.
It looks like overall pricing is starting to accelerate with some of the weathers out there on the cement side.
I mean are you guys -- it sounds like you're going to start to be able to capture some of that pricing on the fly ash as well.
How should we think about just the overall marketplace for you guys? At what point does it make sense to pull back a little bit to try to maybe grab a little bit of market share there? And just any thoughts around that? You think that the -- as we indicated now is the -- just between now and June is when a lot of the price increases go into effect.
And because of the relative pricing between portland cement and the fly ash what happens with portland cement provides some cover for the price increases in the fly ash business.
And so I think we want to take advantage of that opportunity for those price increases and we try to -- there is a lot of -- there is competition based on price and that's -- it's a regional kind of phenomenon and you have to respond to that -- to the competitive pressures based on price.
But generally we prefer to compete on other characteristics of our business and not as much on price.
So if we can compete on service on availability on quality those are the areas that we would prefer to compete on rather than price.
You agree with that Bill? Yes exactly.
We will continue to try to leverage our pricing increases and regards to market share we have opportunities to pick up market share but that in the short-term is going to be dictated on supply issues out in the marketplace and we will obviously try to leverage our multiple supplies in the sales territories.
But our big push will continue to be leveraging our price increases and we see our volumes start to go up.
Operator with that we will go ahead and end the call.
Thank you for joining us.
This concludes the Headwaters Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Conference Call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Headwaters' Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded today July 30 2013.
I will now turn the conference over to Tricia Ross of Financial Profiles.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Headwaters Incorporated Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Conference Call.
There are slides accompanying today's presentation that can be found on the webcast link at the Headwaters Incorporated website under the Events and Presentations link.
Please go there to follow along with the slides.
If you have any issues please feel free to email me at tross@finprofiles.com and I can also email you a copy.
I would now like to turn the call over to Sharon Madden Vice President of Investor Relations at Headwaters.
Thank you Tricia.
Good morning and thank you for joining us as we report Headwaters' fiscal 2013 Q3 results.
Kirk Benson Headwaters' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Don Newman Headwaters' Chief Financial Officer will be conducting this morning's call along with Bill Gehrmann President of Headwaters Resources and Heavy Construction Materials segment; and Murphy Lents President of Eldorado Stone.
While listening to today's call please remember that certain statements made during the call including statements relating to our expected future business and financial performance may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 both as amended.
Forward-looking statements by their very nature address matters that are to different degrees uncertain.
These uncertainties are described in more detail in Headwaters' annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
You can find these reports and other SEC filings readily available from the SEC's website Headwaters' website or directly from the company.
I'll now turn the call over to Kirk Benson.
Kirk? Thank you Sharon.
We enjoyed the quarter largely consistent with expectations realizing revenue operating income and adjusted EBITDA growth.
The key highlights for the quarter included: first our stone product line is growing with expanded margins reflecting that exposure to new residential construction and importantly this growth is accelerating into July; second our regional block product line is growing due to the strong economy in Texas including residential landscaping through Lowe's and the renewal of school construction but it does have lower margins than our stone and siding accessories business.
Fly ash's seasonal upturn was muted due to colder wet weather in the northern half of the United States and what this does is it pushes the upturn in volume into July.
And that is exactly what we are seeing so far this month.
Our siding accessories growth has been much slower than our light building products due to its high exposure to repair and remodel and to some degree the cool spring in the Midwest and Northeast.
Our overall exposure to our 3 largest end markets in light building products is approximately 45% repair and remodel 28% new residential and 25% commercial and institutional.
Stone has the greatest exposure to new construction and is growing faster than siding accessories.
We have improving margins in stone which tends to bring our overall margins in light building products higher but the margin improvement is offset by lower margins in block and in our new trim board product.
Siding accessories are still predominantly into repair and remodel market and represent some of our higher-margin products.
We are seeing steady sales but growth is clearly lagging behind new residential construction.
We believe that the upward trend in home prices continued job growth and the lack of housing supply will help to drive siding remodel jobs.
We believe that the macro factors including positive changes in population growth and employment drives family formation and consequently new housing demand and will ultimately lead family formation back to the $1.2 million range and total housing demand into the $1.5 million median range.
Consistent with most housing forecasts we anticipate that we're in the early stages of a long-term up cycle that will result in the industry returning to historical levels.
Our revenue growth of 21% in light building products came primarily from organic growth in our block and stone product lines combined with the acquisition of our trim board product.
Light building products EBITDA grew by 26%.
On a consolidated basis adjusted EBITDA grew 32% in the quarter compared to last year.
And after adjusting for compensation tied to stock price our trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA was $111 million which puts us in the range of our EBITDA guidance.
We continue to strengthen our balance sheet including $24 million in debt repayments in the quarter and improving our net debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio to 4.3 from a high of 6.7.
We are entering the positive portion of our 2013 cash flow cycle and our cash balance continues to grow.
Our improving balance sheet will position us to take advantage of growth opportunities in the up cycle.
So now I'd like to turn the time over to Don to discuss the financials.
Thank you Kirk.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Before discussing Slide 4 I wanted to mention that we intend to file our Form 10-Q later this week.
My comments today will be directed to the slides that were sent out this morning and to a lesser extent the condensed consolidated balance sheets and statements of operation that were attached to the press release.
Starting on Slide 4.
Our third quarter revenue from continuing operations was $197 million up $21.4 million or 12% from prior year revenue of $175.6 million which reflects growth from our acquired trim product line as well as 6% organic growth in our core businesses of light building products and heavy construction materials.
Third quarter adjusted EBITDA was $37.9 million up 32% year-over-year.
Third quarter operating income was $23.2 million up 46% year-over-year.
Earnings per share for the quarter was $0.15 per share versus a loss of 21% -- $0.21 per share in Q3 of 2012.
Year-to-date operating income is $28.1 million an increase of 52% year-over-year as revenue increased 10% over 2012 revenue levels.
We remain on track to generate positive net earnings in fiscal 2013.
Let's move to Slide 5 for a closer look at the quarter's financial results.
Light building products revenue increased $20.9 million or 21.5% which includes $10.2 million of revenue from our recently acquired trim products business.
Organic growth in light building products in the quarter was primarily in stone and block.
Our siding accessories business saw its sales increase at a slower pace than other product lines due to unfavorable weather conditions in the upper Midwest and Northeast as well as the limited recovery in the repair and remodel end market.
Heavy construction materials revenue was up modestly from 2012 level as price increases helped to offset lower marketing volumes impacted by weather conditions in the Midwest and Northeast as well as lower revenue from site services.
Energy Technology revenue was consistent with 2012 levels.
Gross profit was $58.5 million a 12% increase from the prior year.
Gross margins were 29.7% in the quarter which is down slightly from 29.8% last year.
The minor margin decrease was due to sales mix partially offset by cost efficiencies.
SG&amp;A decreased $1.5 million due to lower compensation expense offset by SG&amp;A related to the trim product acquisition.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations totaled $37.9 million up 32% from $28.7 million 2012.
Interest expense decreased $4.9 million as a result of accelerated amortization debt -- amortization of debt issued cost and debt discounts related to the 8.75% note exchange in 2012 as well as debt repayment activity.
Income taxes increased year-over-year due to positive income in 2013 and Q3 2012 including a favorable tax reserve adjustment.
We ended the quarter with more than $200 million of pretax NOLs and nearly $25 million of tax credits that will shelter significant income from cash taxes into the future.
We recorded income from discontinued operations in 2013 of $1.8 million which included an income tax benefit of $2.7 million and a $1 million gain associated with receipt of contingent sales proceeds partially offset by valuation reserves associated with certain assets.
2012 included a $13 million impairment charge.
Now let's move to Slide 6 and talk about the year-to-date financial results.
Revenue from continuing operations year-to-date increased $44.9 million or 10% year-over-year to $487.6 million.
Light building products revenue increased $34.7 million or 14% over 2012 including $18.3 million of revenue from the acquired trim board business.
Year-to-date organic growth in light building products has been from the stone and the block businesses due to a combination of end market and geographic exposures.
The siding business saw its revenues decrease slightly year-over-year as a result of a combination of unfavorable weather conditions as well as the limited recovery in the repair and remodel end market.
Heavy construction materials revenue increased $8.2 million or 5.4% as price increases and revenue from new service contracts served to offset lower marketing volumes impacted by the unfavorable weather conditions.
Energy technology revenue increased $2 million year-over-year due to customer outages in 2012.
Gross profit year-to-date is $128.2 million an 8% increase from 2012.
Gross margins are 26.3% year-to-date down from 26.7% in 2012.
The modest decline in margins reflects sales mix in light building products.
Also margins in our heavy construction material segment were impacted by revenue associated with new service contracts and the expiration of a contract in 2012 that was highly profitable.
SG&amp;A increased $2.6 million year-over-year largely due to SG&amp;A related to the acquired trim board business and its related acquisition cost partially offset by lower variable compensation.
Operating income has increased from $18.5 million in 2012 to $28.1 million in 2013.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations totaled $70.9 million which is up $9.3 million from 2012 a 15% increase and that's despite the challenging weather conditions this year.
Let's move on to Slide 7 and spend a few minutes discussing debt.
Our debt position continues to improve.
During the quarter we repurchased $24.3 million of convertible notes bringing the remaining debt maturing in February 2014 to $15.6 million.
Our liquidity remained strong and we expect to generate approximately $35 million of free cash flow in fiscal 2013.
We closed the current quarter with a net debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio of 4.3:1 and continue to progress in our goal to maintain reasonable levels of financial leverage across the cycle.
Starting on Slide 8 Murphy will cover light building products.
Thanks Don.
Good morning everybody.
On Slide 8 you can see revenues from our light building products segment for the quarter increased by $21 million to $118 million an increase of 21% over the same quarter last year.
Revenues increased 11% for the quarter excluding our newly acquired trim board product line.
Revenues continue to benefit from growth in new housing starts.
Non-seasonally adjusted single-family housing starts for the 3 months ended June 30 2013 were 14% higher than housing starts for the 3 months ended June 30 2012.
For our fiscal year-to-date single-family starts are up 23%.
Our 28% exposure to new residential construction in light building products would imply revenue growth year-to-date of 6% and our revenue growth has grown 7% year-to-date.
So our growth corresponds well to our end market exposure.
Our block product group has benefited from the strength in Texas and Louisiana residential markets but more importantly for it the commercial and institutional markets are rebounding from soft sales over the last 2 years.
Texas is the fastest-growing state in the nation in both jobs and housing.
This growth has historically led to significant construction of schools and other institutional projects as well as commercial buildings all of which have long been the core of our regional Block business.
We've benefited from our solid position in this great market and expect to continue to do so.
We experienced lower-than-expected margins in our block product group in the quarter as we ramped up new product lines.
At the same time demand for our core products increased rapidly.
The main factors were overtime for labor and higher transportation costs as we shifted product between regions to meet demand.
As we balanced production at this higher level we expect efficiency improvements that will lower our overall costs.
Additionally we're instituting price increases in some product lines which with improved cost performance should result in higher margins.
We're very excited about the opportunities over the next year in this product category given revenue growth and the opportunity for margin expansion.
Our siding group sales growth was negatively impacted by cold and wet weather conditions in the Northeast and the North Central regions.
This also impacted our recently acquired trim board business.
The repair and remodel end market is an important one for our siding group and to date growth in this market has been very slow.
We do expect repair and remodel end markets to improve as home prices continued to increase housing sales increase and the economy improves.
The increase in light building product revenues led to a 26% improvement of adjusted EBITDA for the quarter improving from $20.7 million in 2012 to $26 million in 2013.
Our trim board acquisition and improved performance in the block and stone groups led revenue growth.
Since both our trim board product and the block products have lower-than-average margins this change in sales mix resulted in approximately 150-basis-point reduction in gross margin.
Nevertheless adjusted EBITDA margins still improved to 22% for the quarter up from 21.3% in 2012.
Trim board performed in line with expectations and margins improved as we continue to integrate it into the siding group.
Year-to-date revenues for the light building product segment have increased $35 million or 14% while adjusted EBITDA is up $6 million year-to-date to $49.5 million.
Slide 9 summarizes this discussion.
Revenues have grown in each of 3 quarters this year and adjusted EBITDA returned to growth in the third quarter after being essentially flat for the second quarter.
Now I'll turn the presentation over to Bill.
Thanks Murphy and good morning everyone.
On Slides 10 and 11 you can see that revenue for the June 2013 quarter in our heavy construction materials business was $75.1 million compared to $74.7 million for the June 2012 quarter.
Headwaters Plant Services provides site services to many of our utility clients.
Site service revenue was slightly down for the June quarter and accounted for approximately 25% of our overall revenue for the quarter.
While these services typically have lower operating margins than our products sales they are not as seasonal.
As construction activity increases in the September quarter and product revenues expand site service revenue should be an even lower percentage of our overall revenue in the September quarter.
The winter overhang in the upper Midwest and Northeast resulted in a year-over-year decrease of 4% in our shipments of high-quality fly ash.
Cement shipments through May are up 2.8% led by combined 10% increase in Florida Texas and California while the rest of the country was flat.
We anticipate seeing a positive year-over-year trend in high-quality fly ash shipments for the rest of the year as the weather-impacted areas of the country improve.
The year-over-year average net price increase of 4% slightly offset the volume decrease resulting in a slight percent year-over-year increase in product revenue.
Gross profit for the June 2013 quarter increased 3% to $20.5 million compared to $19.9 million for the June 2012 quarter and gross margin improved 70 basis points to 27.3%.
Operating income increased to $12.8 million compared to $11.8 million for the June 2012 quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA for the June 2013 quarter increased 7% to $16.1 million compared to $15 million for the June 2012 quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 140 basis points year-over-year.
These improvements were driven by reductions in our cost structure and an improvement in our overall operational efficiencies.
We continue to be encouraged by the statement by the U.S.
EPA in April that the alignment of the new affluent guideline limitations with CCP disposal rules could provide strong support for a conclusion that regulation of coal combustion residuals under RCRA Subtitle D would be adequate.
We look forward to the EPA developing appropriate regulations over the next 12 months consistent with its current thinking.
Last week the U.S.
House of Representatives passed H.R.
2218 the Coal Residuals Reuse and Management Act of 2013 by a bipartisan vote of 265 to 155.
Both the regulatory approach contemplated by the EPA and the legislative approach passed in the house will be supportive of beneficial use of fly ash.
We anticipate an ultimate positive conclusion to the issue surrounding the disposal of fly ash.
I'll now turn the call back to Kirk.
Thank you Bill.
Turning to Slide 12.
Our remaining energy asset consist of proprietary technology that is used to catalytically upgrade low-quality heavy oil.
We were successful several years ago in marking the technology for use in a large European refinery which has now been using the technology in its operations treating approximately 42 000 barrels per day of heavy oil.
Consequently the technology is now recognized as a proven technology in refining industry.
This month we negotiated 2 new agreements with refineries that process 50 000 barrels per day of heavy oil.
The agreements provide for a testing period with our technology which may lead to their acceptance and use of our product commercially in the latter half of 2014.
The 2 agreements could nearly double the revenue.
We're very excited also about joint marketing agreement that we've entered into with Axens a major supplier of technology in the heavy oil operating processes at refineries around the world.
This gives us an increased access to the heavy oil market which is rapidly expanding.
We expect that the total volume of heavy oil treated and processes that could use our technology will double over the next 5 years.
We are the clear industry leader in the application of liquid catalyst heavy oil upgrading.
And the market acceptance combined with the market growth provide us with a positive opportunity to create value for shareholders.
For the third quarter of 2013 revenue from continuing operations in our energy segment was $3.9 million compared to $3.7 million in 2012.
Adjusted EBITDA was $300 000 in 2013 compared to a loss of $600 000 in 2012.
Commenting on Slide 13 until we establish a wider customer base revenue and EBITDA will continue to vary in -- from quarter-to-quarter due to refinery turnarounds and the timing of shipments.
But generally we should show relatively consistent annual revenues and earnings as we proceed to increase our customer base.
Concluding on Slide 14 we believe that our adjusted EBITDA will be within our range for 2013.
As we've indicated previously our guidance is dependent upon stock price performance because we have compensation tied to changes in the stock price.
Trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA eliminating changes resulting from the increase to the stock price was $111 million and we expect it to increase in the September quarter.
So I'd now like to turn the time back over to the operator for the question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of John Quealy from Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
In terms of the fly ash business I know weather and some other issues impacted it this quarter.
My understanding is normally the September quarter is a bigger quarter anyway for ash.
Can you quantify what you think the movement was from Q2 to -- excuse me Q3 to Q4 on ash in terms of revenues? In terms of volume we were down 4% volume for the quarter.
And what of course was happening in the northern part of the country particularly in the Midwest is that these construction projects that were delayed will be pushed into the September quarter.
And that's what we're experiencing in July is that volume has increased in the northern part of United States.
So from a revenue perspective we're probably in the $1 million to $2 million revenue range maybe a little bit higher than that.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then over to the light building products side can -- you talked about -- we talked about sidings for a little bit.
In the repair remodel I guess there's sort of some cross-currents of trends going on there.
But Kirk can you talk about the siding category? The siding category seems to have tougher time versus roofing and stone and all other sorts of builder materials.
But talk about some of the secular shifts if there are any in siding and how you see that playing out with clear.
I think we're -- because it's an important end market exposure for Headwaters the repair and remodel market -- and it's important not just from a top line revenue perspective but it's also quite important because many of our higher-margin products are in the repair and remodel end market.
And -- the large ticket repair and remodel projects have been lagging other remodel expenditures.
The repair and remodel opportunities are tied to increases in housing prices to confidence about the economy job growth.
And to the extent that homeowners will stay in their existing home but feel comfortable to incur capital expenses to improve their home that's what's going to drive our particular repair and remodel expenses -- or revenue.
And so I -- we think that there is a built-up opportunity in repair and remodel and a lot of that is driven by the relationship that homeowners have to their investment in their home.
The secular changes that have been taking place the conversion to -- away from wood in the trim board product the conversion to fiber cement all of those -- those changes will benefit our trim board investment in cellular PVC.
So we were impacted by the colder weather in the Northeast because that's primarily where the -- where our trim board product sales are located.
But we think that that continued secular change away from wood siding and wood trim board products will be very positive.
The other thing that we're doing is that we are expanding -- we're expanding our relationships with better -- with -- our trim board product with our 2-step distributors outside of the Northeast.
That was one of the synergies that we have identified in the trim board acquisition.
And so that's starting to pick up some momentum and we think that that's also going to end up having a positive impact on our revenue.
So to summarize we think that there's a buildup of opportunity in repair and remodel because of the correlation to home prices and because of the general housing market and then we should be able to take advantage of these secular changes as well.
Research Division</strong> And so would clear be outperforming right now versus the legacy Tapco and other siding-related products? No.
We're not seeing an outperformance on the top line and again part of that is -- was the weather impact in the June quarter.
So we're seeing a very consistent revenue trend right now with our clear product with our other siding-type products.
But we think a lot of that was impacted by weather during the quarter and we're also -- it takes some time to get the distribution expanded outside of New England.
And that's what we're working on.
I think we're finding opportunities there.
But you really aren't going to see that until -- you're not going to see a lot of that until 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly Don stock comp year-to-date is it $4.5 million? And if so what do we expect for the full year in that implied EBITDA guidance? So stock comp year-to-date is about $5 million.
And I think we talked before about sensitivities around increases for every $1 of stock price.
We would expect to see something in the $1 million to $1.5 million range impact on our expense.
Your next question will come from the line of Mr.
Philip Volpicelli from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I've got a couple of small questions but I guess each are pretty important.
In light building products you mentioned that there will be price increase on your block group.
Can you give us a sense of what the magnitude is for that? In the 5% range.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then when you look at the HCAT wins those are great 2 new additions.
Are they new customers? Is it the same customer with 2 new refineries? And did the Axens and forgive me for pronunciation there joint venture helped you in getting those new wins? Two new customers and Axens was helpful on one of the 2.
And we think that there will be additional benefits from the Axens relationship on new customers going forward.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I don't think you guys disclosed capital expenditures for the quarter and also revolver availability.
Could you give me those 2 housekeeping? The revolver availability really hasn't changed from prior quarters.
So there is -- we discussed that a little bit in the press release.
Yes.
And revolver availability I think was in the $47 million to $50 million range.
And from a CapEx standpoint about $8 million in CapEx for the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then the last one.
The free cash flow guidance in the 2Q slide it says $40 million of free cash flow.
And then the 3Q slide it says $35 million.
What's changed to bring that number down a little bit? I think it's really a range as much as anything is a range of $35 million to $40 million.
I don't think anything particularly have happened relative to free cash flow.
I think that we've tried to be consistent in discussing a range and so it's -- the range is the $35 million to $40 million.
Your next question comes from the line of Al Kaschalk from Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about raw material and inflation costs what may have impacted the quarter or not.
Could you talk about that? I think there was -- overall there was a minimal impact on the quarter relative to inflation costs associated with raw materials so very very little impact on a consolidated basis.
The place where we are seeing some impact is in cement costs in our regional block business.
But by and large there was minimal impact in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Bill commented about a 4% price net in his business.
Was that consistent with your expectations? And given some of the dynamics on -- from weather impacting what should we expect for the balance of '13 and then to '14? We've been experiencing a 4% to 5% price increase compared to prior year and I think that's -- it's been relatively consistent on a net basis at that level.
Bill do you want to talk a little bit about what you would anticipate going into the September quarter? Yes.
It's -- we are to stay within that range hopefully based on product mix to the higher part of that range is -- especially in the upper Midwest typically we recognize some high-margin sales up there.
So we'd expect to see those continued trends into the September quarter.
And then moving forward it looks like the cement industry its floating price increases out there and we anticipate continuing to do the same thing on our high-quality fly ash.
Research Division</strong> Bill do you have entry period or the ability on pricing to go back to the customer base or are these a little bit of a lag in terms of what you're realizing in the quarter? There's a little bit of a lag.
Typically price increases are implemented in 2 ways more of a seasonal adjustment to our ongoing customers a ready mixed customer would be one.
And then we typically have project-by-project opportunities large-scale DOT bid work those types and that gives us a little chance to be a little more reactive based on pricing trends for other materials aggregates and cement.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then Kirk and maybe Murphy but when we think about this R&amp;R market and then maybe it's the perceived headwind relative to some expectations here but if I recall correctly you -- on the accessory side you have a very short manufacturing window.
In other words from order to delivery it's -- I thought was sub-72 hours.
Can you comment on -- is the demand basically for -- or any type of material growth in demand now a '14 story? And is your '13 third -- fourth quarter visibility kind of in check with what you saw here in Q3? Yes.
We're not seeing any particular upward trend based upon increased demand.
So we would anticipate that September quarter would be a continuation of what we saw in the June quarter with the -- with also the understanding that the June quarter was hurt a little bit by the weather conditions in the Northeast.
But generally that's -- we're seeing a continuation of those same trends.
And so it does tend to get one to believe that 2014 you'll start to see more of those large ticket repair and remodel jobs implemented.
Your next question comes from the line of John Baugh from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I was just really trying to follow-up on that last question on the R&amp;R as it relates to the light building products.
So it really -- you really didn't see any excluding weather pickup in June July in the total demand across the country or non-weather affected areas? No we're not.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the HCM side or on fly ash or on product sale could you give us a feel for what you expect I don't know maybe the second half of the calendar year volume to be into the national cement market and how Headwaters would compare with that and whether or not it would be better than that number because of some weather catch-up and then talking about those absolute numbers? I mean the one thing that makes it a little bit difficult to compare our fly ash sales with the national cement number is that the national cement number is greatly impacted by 3 primary locations: Florida Texas and California.
We don't have any sales or -- we have basically no sales in the Florida market and the Florida market has been one area where cement sales have been increasing rapidly.
So that has an impact on the comparison of our fly ash sales with the cement sales.
I think that we clearly are going to have a very strong September quarter.
So from a volume perspective because of what happened in the upper Midwest I think that's -- that is going to drive a strong September quarter.
If some -- I'm speculating on what cement shipments could be like but we feel very good about where we are going to be positioned relative to volume into the September quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then could you comment -- should we see assuming weather is good a substantial improvement in the December quarter year-over-year based on what happened a year ago and what seems to be developing so far year-to-date? If you exclude weather from the response we should have a strong October.
October makes or breaks the December quarter and so the construction activity when you have a slow spring generally gets stretched out into October.
So if you -- if weather holds then we should have a good 12/31 quarter because we'll have a strong October.
And October of course is very dependent upon weather.
But just from a demand perspective we should have a very strong October which should lead to a strong December quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Mannes from Avondale.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm going to follow up on the questions on the construction materials.
I definitely hear your comments about the national numbers on cement being a little bit misleading given your lack of exposure to Florida.
But you do have pretty good exposure to Texas and California.
And I guess I'm still a little bit surprised you're not able to get a little bit more leverage given the strength in those 2 markets even with some weakness in the Midwest.
Are you kind of saturated in those 2 markets in terms of fly ash inclusion or is there opportunity even -- to even send more to those markets? Of course the Texas market is where we have a great deal of supply and so we're a homegrown product in Texas.
And I think with the growth of the economy in Texas our shipments are relatively strong in the Texas market.
What offset that was the weakness in the upper Midwest.
And that's what -- so when you look on the national numbers that's the primary reason for the comparison with the portland cement shipments and why our overall shipments have been lower than the cement shipments.
So we feel good about shipments into California and our sales in the Texas market as well.
So Bill comment a little bit about -- on how you view the California market though? Yes.
We keep hearing from our customers there is backlog in California.
We feel good about that market then continue -- we expect to continue to see our shipments tick up into that market.
Going back to the Texas market and the overall Gulf Coast we've been strong year-over-year.
As we've discussed previously you've got to factor in the fact that some of the increase especially in the Texas shipments are oilfield related which is in a direct correlation overall.
But for what we can back out that then goes into the oilfield to increase activity there we feel pretty good about the way we're tracking year-over-year in Texas and along the Gulf Coast.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
A separate question on construction materials.
You mentioned that it seems like some headwinds maybe from the roll off of a pretty strong contract on the service side do we -- or first of all when do you lap that? And then secondly are there any more sort of large or above -- I don't want to say above market but notably profitable contracts that might roll off that could create headwinds over the next couple of quarters? Bill I'm not aware of any contracts that would roll off in the next couple of quarters.
Any come to mind? No.
We've had one on the product revenue side that basically rolled off and it is not showing in the comp as of our Q2.
We had one site service contract that essentially ended December 31 and that's been showing up in the comp then.
So that rolls off at the end of the December quarter for our FY '14.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then the last question on construction materials.
We saw -- I think FirstEnergy came out there planning to shut down a fairly sizable plant in their fleet.
I guess as you continue to see some of that activity has it continued to pace with your expectations or have you seen any at least planned closure activity that's maybe deviated from your expectations? From what's been announced we haven't seen a lot of deviation.
Obviously as we've shared in the past our current supply situation and we projected that out to what we think the mass impact will be going into 2016.
We still continue to feel very comfortable that we have a lot of headroom in our supply compared to the height of our annual sales which occurred in FY '07.
We -- specifically speaking to that announcement we did have truck- and rail-served markets out of there.
We have backups for both of those and we continue to evaluate and work to increase our off-season storage capabilities which will help in cases like this also.
And your next question comes from the line of David Daglio from The Boston Company.
LLC</strong> My questions have been asked and answered.
And your final question will come from the line of Al Kaschalk from Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> Kirk just to maybe help clarify for some of us anyways the HCAT business.
When we think about '14 before these new contracts come online should we think from an operations standpoint that that's neutral in other words it's flattish on the EBITDA in terms of contribution? Or is there some benefit in '14 to the overall business? If things go well there could be a slight uptick in like the fourth quarter of 2014.
So -- and so there could be a slight improvement in -- towards the very end of the fiscal year but that will be the quarter where we will have our orders start to come through.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But the revenue or the existing contracts sort of today's quarter's run rate of $3 million to $4 million that revenue should be there between now and the next 3 to 4 quarters.
Yes.
That should be consistent with next year.
And we have no further questions at this time.
I'd like to hand it back to management.
Operator with that we will go ahead and conclude the call.
Thank you all for joining us.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the conference call for today.
Thank you for participating.
Please disconnect your lines.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Headwaters Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is also being recorded today November 5 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Tricia Ross with Financial Profiles.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us for the Headwaters Incorporated Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2013 Conference Call.
There are slides accompanying today's presentation that can be found on the webcast link at the Headwaters Incorporated website under the Events and Presentations tab.
Please go there to follow along with the slides.
If you have any issues accessing these please feel free to e-mail me at tross@finprofiles.com and I can also e-mail you a PDF copy.
I would now like to turn the call over to Sharon Madden Vice President of Investor Relations at Headwaters.
Thank you Tricia.
Good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us as we report Headwaters' fourth quarter fiscal 2013 year-end results.
Kirk Benson Headwaters Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; along with Don Newman Headwaters' Chief Financial Officer will be conducting today's call.
Joining them will be Bill Gehrmann who is President of Headwaters Resources; and Dave Ulmer President of Tapco International.
Before we get started please remember that certain statements made during the call including statements relating to our expected future business and financial performance may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 both as amended.
Forward-looking statements by their very nature address matters that are to different degrees uncertain.
These uncertainties are described in more detail in Headwaters' annual report and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
You can find Headwaters' annual report on Form 10-K quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings readily available from the SEC's website Headwaters' website or directly from the company.
I will now turn the call over to Kirk Benson.
Kirk? Thank you Sharon.
Before looking forward to 2014 I'd like to spend a little bit of time on the highlights and achievements from 2013.
We completed the sale of our coal cleaning operations clarifying our focus on building products and heavy construction materials.
We acquired a cellular PVC trim board product line and realized projected synergies as planned in order to move the EBITDA range into the 15% level.
We should be able to increase revenue in 2014 as we expand distribution.
We continued our debt repayment strategy repaying $47 million in debt and improving our debt-to-EBITDA ratio from 4.3 to 3.3.
Revenues improved 11% from $633 million to $703 million.
Operating income was up 58% from $34 million to $54 million.
Net income from continuing operations increased $35 million to a net profit of $8 million.
And we finished the year close to the midpoint of our EBITDA guidance of $116 million.
So all segments of our business performed well in the fourth quarter.
After a slow start to the construction season our fly ash shipments in the fourth quarter exceeded 2012 shipments.
Block and stone recorded strong revenue increases in the quarter although we are still waiting to see improvement in our siding products.
2013 was a good year as reflected in our 58% growth in operating income.
Our free cash flow increased with the reductions in interest expense and controlled CapEx at budgeted amounts.
Now looking forward to 2014 we will focus on a number of opportunities to continue Headwaters' evolution as a premier building products company.
We are projecting adjusted EBITDA margins to expand in both our light and heavy building products segment.
Our internal targets are to have adjusted EBITDA margins in the 20% range.
The expansion will come from increased stone sales which has a strong contribution margin price increases and efficiency gains in our block product line.
We also have the opportunity to improve margins in trim board through greater utilization of our manufacturing capacity.
We expect organic growth to be in the mid- to high single digits.
We will be introducing new roofing siding and stone products during the year.
Our fly ash shipments are beginning to grow again after a slow summer and we believe that our price increases will be similar to 2013.
We have been waiting for some time for our repair and remodel end markets to improve in siding and October was the strongest month that we've had in some time showing year-over-year revenue increases.
We will have labor material and cost -- and overhead cost increases in 2014 but we believe that our cost increases will be offset by continuous improvement efforts.
Each segment and product group is fully committed to operational improvements.
And when combined with an increase in revenue it should result in margin expansion.
We will manage our balance sheet to maintain an appropriate balance between equity and debt.
Over the last 5 years we were too highly leveraged.
But with increases in cash flow and lower debt levels it appears that we are close to our goal of a debt-to-EBITDA ratio in the 2.5 to 3x.
We will be working on a capital structure strategy that takes into account the progress we have made recognizing that our debt is much less expensive than equity.
In 2013 we showed solid operating improvement and our end markets are still at historically low levels of demand.
Based on household formation estimates for 2014 and beyond demand in our end markets will continue to increase over the next several years.
We are very well positioned to capitalize on this increasing demand and look forward to participating in the up cycle.
So thank you for your participation on the call and I would now like to turn the time over to Don.
Thank you Kirk.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Before discussing Slide 4 I wanted to mention that we intend to file our Form 10-K later in November.
My comments today will be directed to the slides that were sent out this morning and to a lesser extent the condensed consolidated balance sheets and statements of operations that were attached to the press release.
Revenue from continuing operations for Q4 was $215 million up $24.9 million or 13% from the prior year revenue of $190.1 million.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations for the quarter was $40.8 million a 15% increase from the prior year EBITDA of $35.6 million.
We had even larger improvements in our operating income which increased 66% from $15.9 million in 2012 to $26.3 million in 2013.
Earnings per share for the year improved from a loss of $0.43 last year to a positive $0.12 in 2013.
Also this quarter we have presented for the first time adjusted earnings per share which increased from $0.41 for the full year 2012 to $0.54 this year.
I'll talk through the adjustments that we've made to derive the adjusted EPS in a few minutes.
We ended the year with liquidity of nearly $123 million including $75.3 million of cash on the balance sheet.
Let's move on to Slide 5 for a closer look at the quarter's financial results.
Revenue from continuing operations for the quarter increased $24.9 million or 13% year-over-year to $215 million.
Light building products revenue increased $20 million or 21% due to growth in all our product groups.
Heavy construction materials revenue increased $3.1 million or 3% from 2012 levels.
That was due to increased shipments of high-quality fly ash as well as price increases.
Energy technology revenue was up $1.7 million or 64% year-over-year due to increased shipments of our HCAT catalyst to both of our customers.
Gross profit was $64.3 million a $7.6 million or 13% increase from the prior year gross profit of $56.7 million.
The increase was driven by the higher revenue as well as cost reductions.
SG&amp;A decreased $2.6 million year-over-year largely due to decreases in performance-based compensation tied to stock price.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations totaled $40.8 million which represents a 15% increase year-over-year.
Interest expense decreased $0.9 million as a result of lower average debt balances.
There was a small amount of other income in 2013 compared to other income of $3.2 million -- other expense rather of $3.2 million in 2012 which related to the write-off of an investment in a hydrogen peroxide joint venture.
Income taxes relate primarily to state income taxes and jurisdictions where we earn taxable income.
We ended the year with nearly $190 million of pretax NOL carry-forwards and over $25 million of tax credits that will shelter significant income from cash taxes into the future.
Discontinued operations reflect the results for coal cleaning.
We recorded a loss in the quarter of $2.9 million most of which relates to an adjustment of the estimated gain recognized earlier in the year when we completed the sale of all of the remaining coal cleaning facilities.
We currently expect that additional adjustments to the gains and losses from the sale of coal cleaning assets may be recognized in 2014 as certain contingencies are resolved.
Now let's move to Slide 6 and talk about the full year financial results.
Our full year revenue from continuing operations was $702.6 million up $69.8 million or 11% from the prior year revenue of $632.8 million.
Light building products sales increased $55 million or 16% due to growth in all major product categories.
Heavy construction materials sales were up $11 million or 4% from 2012 levels due to both higher product sales and improved site service revenue even though the U.S.
infrastructure construction industry remains weak by historic standards.
Energy technology sales were up $4 million year-over-year due to consistent ongoing customer purchases of HCAT.
Gross profit increased 10% over -- year-over-year from $175 million in 2012 to $192 million in 2013.
That was driven by higher revenue and reductions in our cost structures.
Gross margins are consistent with last year as we had higher revenue growth in our block and trim board business lines which have slightly lower margins than our other businesses.
Our SG&amp;A expense were flat compared to last year even with additional expenses from the Kleer acquisition and other costs related to our revenue growth as we had less cash-based incentive compensation tied to stock price in 2013 as compared to 2012.
Full year adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations was $116.2 million up $13.5 million or 13% from the prior year's adjusted EBITDA of $102.7 million.
The year-over-year decrease in interest expense largely reflects lower outstanding debt balances in 2013 and fewer costs associated with the early retirement of our convertible debt.
Income tax expense was $3.9 million in 2013 reflecting approximately $2 million of state income taxes and roughly $1.3 million of discrete items.
Income from continuing operations swung nearly $35 million from a loss of $26.4 million to an income of $8.3 million.
Our loss from discontinued operations net of income taxes was $1.1 million in 2013.
Let's move to Slide 7 and spend a few minutes discussing debt.
Our debt position has continued to improve over the past 9 quarters as we've increased our trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA from a low point of $74.6 million in the June 2011 quarter to $116.2 million at the end of the current quarter.
We've decreased our net debt by nearly $119 million over that same period of time.
We closed the current quarter with a net debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio of 3.3:1 after reaching a high point of 6.7:1 in the June 2011 quarter.
We've repaid approximately $95 million of debt in the past 9 quarters and $47 million in 2013.
As of September 30 2013 we have less than $8 million of debt maturing during the next 12 months.
Let's move to Slide 8.
As noted earlier we've decided to begin presenting adjusted earnings per share since we believe EPS will become a more important metric as we grow and increase our profitability.
In addition to adjusting for the nonrecurring and nonroutine items we use for adjusted EBITDA we've also adjusted for the amortization of intangible assets all of which relate to past acquisitions and the acceleration of interest related to early debt repayments.
Starting on Slide 9 Dave will cover light building products.
Thanks Don and good morning everybody.
On Slide 9 you can see revenues from our light building products segment for the fiscal year increase by $55 million to $394 million an increase of 16% over last year.
Revenues increased 8% for the year excluding our trim board product line that was acquired during the year.
Revenues continue to benefit from growth in new housing starts.
Non-seasonally adjusted single-family housing starts for the 11 months ended August 31 2013 were 21% higher than the housing starts for the 11 months ended August 31 2012.
Due to the government shutdown last month September numbers won't be available until later this month.
Our 28% exposure to new residential construction in light building products would imply revenue growth year-to-date of 6% and our organic revenue has grown 8% year-to-date.
So our growth corresponds well to our end market exposure.
Our architectural stone product group has the largest exposure to new residential construction and showed strong revenue growth in fiscal year 2013.
The increase in revenue led to improved margins as our contribution margins were slightly higher than expected.
Our 3-stone brand approach has provided pricing and channel clarity to the market and as a successful adoption of a good better best strategy.
We expect it to continue to be beneficial moving forward in attracting new customers and increasing our market share.
In 2014 we will focus on gaining market share from major homebuilders that we believe will have an interest in using our low-priced entry product and the potential for upgrades to our Eldorado Stone brand.
The rebounding commercial and institutional markets in Texas and Louisiana had a positive impact on our block product group sales.
Texas continues to be the fastest-growing state in the nation in both jobs and housing.
This growth has historically translated to construction of schools and other institutional projects as well as commercial buildings all of which have long been core of our regional block business.
We benefited from our solid position in this great market and expect to continue to do so.
We experienced production inefficiencies in our block product group as demand increased and we introduced several new product lines.
As a result we experienced lower-than-expected margins.
The main reasons were overtime for labor and higher transportation costs as we shifted product between plants to meet the higher demand.
As we balance production at these higher levels our overall costs will improve in 2014 which combined with recently implemented price increases on some products will improve margins and cash flow.
2013 sales from our siding group and the recently acquired trim board business declined slightly as weather negatively impacted the Northeast and North Central regions and our end markets continued to be weak.
We expect repair and remodel end markets to improve as home prices and sales continue to increase and the market -- and the economy improves.
We are pleased to add trim board as a new product line in 2013.
The integration was successful which will help move adjusted EBITDA margins to the 15% to 16% range.
In 2014 we believe we can expand trim board sales outside of the New England area by selling trim products into our existing 2-step distribution network and also into new lumber distribution customer targets.
The increase in light building product revenues led to a 15% improvement of adjusted EBITDA for the year improving from $63.3 million in 2012 to $72.9 million in 2013.
Excluding the trim board product that was acquired this year adjusted EBITDA margins improved from 18.6% to 18.9%.
The improvement in margins came in spite of a higher mix of our sales coming from block products which have lower-than-average margins.
The trim board product margins are expected to improve over time to levels consistent with our other light building products.
For fiscal year 2013 our sales mix of higher block and trim board sales resulted in a 120-basis-point reduction in gross margin without which gross margin would've improved 60 basis points.
Despite this sales mix impact operating margins for the year improved from 7.5% in 2012 to 8.7% in 2013.
Slide 10 summarizes this discussion.
Revenue grew in all 4 quarters this year making it 9 straight quarters of revenue growth.
Adjusted EBITDA increased in 3 quarters while the second quarter was essentially flat due to worse weather conditions year-over-year.
Now I'll turn the presentation over to Bill.
Thanks Dave and good morning everyone.
On Slides 11 and 12 you can see that our coal combustion products group completed the year with revenue of $293 million compared to revenue of $281.7 million for 2012 a 4% year-over-year increase.
Revenue for the September 2013 quarter was $95.7 million compared to revenue of $92.6 million for the September 2012 quarter a 3% year-over-year increase.
Headwaters Resources provides site services to many of its utility clients.
While these services typically have lower margins than our product sales they're not as seasonal and are not as impacted by declines in construction spending.
Site service revenue for 2013 was up 5% on a year-over-year basis but was down 6.5% on a year-over-year basis for the September quarter.
In the quarter the revenue decline from work completed in discontinued contracts was greater than the revenue from new contracts and onetime projects.
Based on our current run rate we anticipate that service revenue may decline in 2014 from 2013 levels.
Site service revenue was 28% of our overall revenue for the year and 25% for the September 2013 quarter.
In 2014 we expect service revenue will be a lower percentage of overall revenue because our ash sales are projected to increase.
Tons of high-value fly ash sold for 2013 were down 1.6% year-over-year primarily because weakness in the Upper Midwest and Northeast offset strength in the South principally Texas.
Total product revenue increased during the year even though volumes were down slightly because realized price increases were in the 4% range.
Tons shipped of high-value fly ash for the September 2013 quarter were up 4.7% year-over-year and the September 2013 quarter product revenue increased 7.3% year-over-year due to both the increase in tons shipped and price increases.
Gross profit for the year increased by 2% to $73 million compared to $71.5 million for 2012.
Gross profit for the September 2013 quarter increased 6% year-over-year to $27.3 million compared to $25.8 million for the September 2012 quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA for 2013 increased 3% year-over-year to $56.6 million compared to $54.8 million for 2012.
We finished the year with adjusted EBITDA margins of 19.3%.
Adjusted EBITDA for the September 2013 quarter increased 13% to $22.8 million compared to $20.1 million for the September 2012 quarter.
The adjusted EBITDA margin for the September 2013 quarter increased over 200 basis points year-over-year.
The improved margins resulted from a shift in product mix and continued cost reductions through continuous improvement.
October was a relatively mild month and our fly ash shipments were up slightly over last year so we're starting out 2014 positively.
We believe that our ash sales will more than make up for any potential decline in service revenue which should result in improved margins on total revenue.
We're very positive on the opportunity to continue to raise prices as well as increase our tons shipped.
Recently a federal district court issued an order to the EPA requiring it to submit a deadline for the issuance of new regulations.
We believe that the deadline to be proposed by the EPA will not be earlier than December 2014.
Alignment of new water standards with proposed CCP disposal rules could provide strong support for a conclusion that regulation of coal combustion products under RCRA Subtitle D would be adequate.
Based on the EPA's statements we believe that the new regulations will be structured under RCRA Subtitle D.
The Senate has not yet taken up the fly ash disposal bill passed by the House House Bill 2218 the Coal Residuals Reuse and Management Act of 2013.
We believe that the House bill adequately protects human health and the environment and meets all reasonable standards necessary for the safe disposal of coal combustion products.
Potentially the Senate version of the House bill could develop EPA support and increase the likelihood of final passage.
But at this time no Senate bill has been introduced.
I'll now turn the call back to Kirk Benson for comments on our energy technology segment.
Kirk? Thanks Bill.
Now turning to Slide 13 for a brief discussion of our third segment energy technology.
2013 was a gratifying year from a revenue perspective.
They grew revenue by over 30% and from an EBITDA perspective which grew by almost $4 million.
But most importantly during the year we signed 2 new license agreements that eventually could double our revenue when you consider a full year of operations.
It depends upon the level of dosage that the customers require.
We need to complete trial periods with both customers.
The trial period on the first customer should begin this week and should be completed by the end of December.
Sometimes feedback on trials comes slowly but we're optimistic because of the experience that we've had with our existing customers.
The second trial will begin late next summer as the refinery is building the mixing equipment necessary to run HCAT.
With these 2 customers we have a onetime expense associated with the start-up of approximate $2 million.
The payback will be measured in months after the facilities are purchasing HCAT.
In 2014 we anticipate that we will sign 1 to possibly 2 new customer licenses.
We've already started negotiations on one new agreement and we are working with several new potential customers.
The market for our technology is expanding driven by lower natural gas prices as a source for hydrogen and a desire to increase utilization of heavy oils.
You can see the quarterly performance and the year-over-year improvements in revenue and EBITDA on Slide 14.
Turning to Slide 15 we are setting 2014 adjusted EBITDA guidance in the range of $125 million to $140 million.
Of course there are the natural precautions that the final outcome is dependent upon our end markets particularly new residential construction and cost increases such as material and transportation.
Our projected CapEx for 2014 is approximately $40 million as we are increasing our investment in growth opportunities.
Headwaters is well positioned to benefit from increasing demand derived from household formation and an increase in repair and remodel activity.
Our investments in new product development and participation in adjacent product lines like trim board will add to our growth opportunities.
We're very excited to participate in the extended up cycle over the next several years.
I'd now like to turn the time back over to the operator for the question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of John Quealy with Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> First on light duty if we could you talked about some macro headwinds in repair and remodel.
Can you just talk to us in a little bit more specifics about the difference between whether Kleer was closer to budget or the legacy vinyl product how they're trending or outperforming vis-à-vis each other? And then also I know you talked about growth in the distribution channel for a number of different products in light in '14.
Can you comment about penetration thus far for example in Kleer in that 2-step channel? And then I have a follow-up.
So one of the things that was interesting to us is that the revenue changes in Kleer which is our trim board product were relatively similar to the revenue changes in our legacy products like shutters blocks vents products that are primarily vinyl-oriented.
And so we did have a little bit of a weather issue in the Upper Midwest and New England because the winter was extended a little bit and those are the primary regions in which we sell these products.
And so they were -- the trends were quite similar between the different groups of products.
The one thing that I mentioned in the script is we seem to have seen a little bit of change in that trend towards the very end of September and into October.
The October trends were quite positive and so we're expecting that the repair and remodel markets for our products will improve.
In fact we think that there's a significant amount of pent-up demand.
And as you get increases in home valuations there's going to be a greater capacity for home equity loans and the ability to do these outside remodel projects.
So we think that clearly based on the October sales we may be starting to see some of that pent-up demand.
So Dave why don't you speak a little bit about the distribution particularly as it relates to Kleer outside of the New England region? Yes I mean we -- the -- when we made it the acquisition of Kleer was primarily a Northeast -- Northeastern business.
And as we've gotten further into this business our -- one of our main goals is geographic expansion of where those trim board products are sold and distributed and we're starting to make some positive inroads in distribution in areas outside of the Northeastern United States.
Especially in the Plains States the Midwest and the Southeast is really where we've started to see some areas of growth up to this point.
So John did you have a follow-up question? Research Division</strong> Yes I did.
So just in terms of staying with light for a minute trends in stone both the synthetic stone Eldorado product as well as the block business in Texas I'm taking the October anecdotes that suggest those businesses are strong as well.
What's your thoughts about the cadence of those businesses seasonally aside? Are we expecting Texas to be still strong in '14? Yes they -- we feel very good about stone sales and the trends in stone participating in the new residential construction growth.
And we continued to see that in October.
So there isn't -- nothing has dissuaded us from the improvements that we anticipate in stone sales.
We're -- our focus on block is that we had fairly rapid growth and we introduced a -- some new products.
And what happened is it created some manufacturing inefficiencies.
So then we are going to -- we're going to raise prices in Texas and that could have a -- if you've got an elastic demand curve if you're raising prices you might actually slow some of your growth.
And our goal is to have an expansion of margin in our Texas market.
We're going to be doing that from -- by doing 2 things: raising prices and also from improving these inefficiencies that crept into the system in 2013.
The Texas economy I think is going to continue to stay strong and so there is going to be an opportunity for revenue growth as we participate in that economy.
But our primary focus is going to be on raising prices and not raising prices to offset increased costs but raising prices to improve margins.
And so our -- that's what our focus is going to be on is the -- is margins by raising prices and by improving the operational efficiencies.
Research Division</strong> And then just one last one if I could on the heavy side.
Bill talked about service going down.
Well it was down in the quarter as a percentage of the mix in heavy and then down again next year.
Can you talk about the relative magnitude? Is that a couple hundred basis points? Or how should we be thinking about that mix? We feel really good about what happened in 2013 and we feel that's helped us position for a very strong 2014.
Relative to service and the impact on our heavy construction materials segment as Bill indicated we anticipate that service revenue could be down as much as 6% or 7%.
But what happens in the service business is that the lives of the contracts are shorter than the ash marketing agreements.
And so you have a typical contract in the service side of the business is about 3 years.
A typical contract in the ash marketing part of the business is 10 years.
So what happens is that you've got the potential of the contracts in the service side turning over more rapidly than the contracts on the ash side.
And so what absolutely could happen in 2014 is we could win some new contracts.
And so that we wanted to share with the market that based upon the run rate in the fourth quarter one could reasonably anticipate that service revenue will be 6% to 7% lower in 2014.
But that's not written in stone because we are competing for new contracts in the service side of the business.
And so hopefully we'll be able to offset some of that run rate decline.
The very positive thing about the heavy construction materials segment is that we are -- we're projecting strong growth in ash sales.
And so the service part of the business will become a lower percentage in 2014 not just because there potentially could be lower revenue but more importantly it's because there could be an increase in revenue and we believe there will be an increase in revenue through volume as well as price increases on the ash side of the business.
And that should lead to some margin expansion.
So I -- so we're very much looking forward to -- for 2014 in our heavy construction materials side of our business both from a product mix perspective as well as the sales and increased volume of ash.
Our next question comes from the line of Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> Kirk I just wanted to clarify on your commentary on adjusted EBITDA margin I believe that was fiscal '14 for both segments.
You laid out about a 20% range? Well what we said was the 20% range that 20% at the SBU [ph] levels that's clearly our goal.
And so we are moving in that direction and we anticipate at the SBU [ph] levels that we should be in that 20% range.
Research Division</strong> And do you want to put a time frame on that? Or what's the expectation that we should think through that given the cost efficiencies and maybe some not-so-helpful cooperation on certain end markets at the moment? No.
I mean we -- yes we're happy to put the time frame on it.
We believe that we'll be in that 20% range in 2014 in both of our segments.
Research Division</strong> That's an exit speed is that right? Run rate exit speed? Well no.
I think if you look at 2014 and realize of course the seasonality of the business -- and so what happens is that you have lower adjusted EBITDA margins in 12/31 quarters or 3/31 quarters and you have higher margins in the June and September quarters.
Our expectation is that when you look at the comp at the 2 segments for the year we will be in the 20% adjusted EBITDA range.
Research Division</strong> On the strong cash flow generation here and the comments about adjacent products I'm wondering if you could comment on the need to expand beyond the R&amp;R market and take advantage of maybe some of the other -- the new resi et cetera and in specific geographic regions to benefit from where the market may be growing at a better rate than you have product placement at the moment.
So I guess that's a backward question I'm asking about M&amp;A opportunities where you're looking but also about the need to be less dependent on R&amp;R just from what -- that it seems to be what's driving sentiment on the stock.
So we're very interested in adjacent product lines and we're also cognizant of -- different parts of the country have stronger growth.
So for example Florida has had very strong new residential construction growth and we don't have a significant presence in Florida.
So we could -- we would be looking at geographic expansion for our like for our block product group into the southeastern part of the United States including Florida.
We're looking for expansion of our architectural stone group into that same geography particularly into Florida.
We would be interested in roofing products in the Florida market and in the Southeast generally.
And so we'll be looking for new product development.
Some of the -- some of our Inspire Roofing is the brand for our polymer-based roofing products.
Dave has done a very good job in our new product developments.
We've got some new roofing products that we're going to be bringing to market starting in January when we go to the building products show.
And so I think that we are focused on expanding in areas where new residential construction is strong and participating with adjacent product lines.
Research Division</strong> And my final question if I may is geared at Bill's business.
One I was wondering if you could share color on either the quantity of facilities you're servicing the number what's that down from or is it flat.
And as we think through -- what's the reason the service agreements may terminate other than just terming out? And if so what's happening to the forward service on those particular locations? So Bill I'm going to -- Al I'm going to talk a little bit to the service side.
The only -- what happens when you have these short-term agreements as opposed to what we do in ash and it's really important that we distinguish between ash contracts for the sale of ash and the service contracts.
Because when we're in these ash marketing agreements we are very good at extending those agreements.
Most of them never go out to bid because we are constantly finding ways to engage the suppliers and we maintain those contracts.
On the service side of the business the contracts are in the 3-year range and they get competitively bid.
On one of the things that we're unwilling to do is to bid these contracts at margin levels that we think are too low.
And so we have more risk when a -- when we get to the end of a 3-year service agreement we have more risk as to whether or not that contract is going to be renewed because we are not going to renew the contract at margins that we think are too low.
And so you end up with -- you end up like with local competitors.
We're clearly the largest national competitor.
But what can happen is you can have a local competitor that will bid a contract to the point where there may be no margin.
That's something that we're not going to do.
It isn't the core part of our business.
The core part of our business is marketing ash and those are long-term contracts and they're contracts in which we have significant experience of extending the contracts.
And so there's really -- I wanted to make sure that we shared the different views on those contracts.
So Bill if you want to talk a little bit about our supply sources or what kind of trends that you see in supply.
Yes.
I think Al basically from a supply perspective over the last year we've lost a couple of sites not competitively.
They've just been shuttered basically due to demand and ages of plants.
We picked up some new supply.
So basically from a year-over-year standpoint I think our supply has basically been flat.
We will continue to look at new opportunities.
I mean we're still -- the industry's facing the mass compliance by the end of 2015.
So there's still a lot of decisions being made out there but we still feel very comfortable with existing supply.
Even when adjusted for seasonality we have a lot of headroom in our supply.
And with additional storage we can actually increase that headroom of supply.
A little more additional color on the site services.
As Kirk pointed out most of those contracts are typically short term.
Three years is the average as we stated.
One of the things we've been seeing now with the regulatory uncertainty they haven't been extending agreements.
Some of the terms have actually gotten a little shorter.
And a piece of that site service revenue is also onetime projects onetime projects where we go out and bid on a new site or onetime projects on a site where we currently have a contract.
And looking into next year we're constantly bidding new work and we hope to be successful.
But it -- we've kind of given the color based on what we saw in the September quarter.
But we're optimistic that we'll continue to pick up new work on that side of the business.
I think on the supply side we've continued to view what's taking place with the low natural gas prices and the increased complexity of the regulatory environment as something that provides us with an opportunity.
So there's clearly has been some disruption.
As Bill mentioned there's -- we've had a couple of facilities that have been shut down and that's exactly what we anticipated as we move towards full mass compliance in 2016.
So there hasn't been anything extraordinary at all relative to supply.
And as Bill indicated we've got -- we have more supply sources than any competitor and it allows us to continue to bring that high-quality supply to areas of the market where there may be opportunities because of the EPA and low natural gas prices.
And a little additional.
As Kirk talked about typically in most markets we have multiple sources.
So the 2 plants that were shuttered over the last year we've been basically able to reallocate supply from other plants.
So we're still continuing to supply customers in those markets.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Mannes with Avondale.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of quick follow-ups.
First on your guidance for '14 on the adjusted EBITDA can you maybe bound for us maybe your expectations in terms of the macro environment that helped you come out with this number i.e.
what kind of expectations do you have for new home starts what's kind of embedded there and what's kind of embedded there in terms of cement shipments year-over-year? And thus -- and on a related note then fly ash sales? I think on the new residential construction we think that we'll get somewhere in the range of between 1 million and 1.1 million starts.
So the -- maybe the midpoint of that 1 million to 1.1 million start range.
From a cement shipment perspective we're following the PCA forecast is the basic forecast that we use relative to anticipating shipments in the -- in 2014 and the out years.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you're also assuming you're going to get some pricing particularly on ash.
I think you said 4% for '13 and maybe you're -- we should be targeting maybe a similar amount for '14? Yes we feel pretty good and that 3% to 4% range is something that's quite realistic for 2014.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then secondly you had some pretty interesting comments on the balance sheet.
Obviously there's been a focus for a long time.
You've really improved things both by paying down debt as well as through an improving EBITDA.
And now that you're getting close to your target range you mentioned M&amp;A but do you have opportunities to potentially return capital to shareholders? Or how constrained are you and could that be worked through? We have some constraints placed upon us by our covenants in our senior debt.
And so we have -- in the past we have purchased our stock in the marketplace.
We're certainly not adverse to do that -- adverse to doing that and we've seen -- we've had a good experience doing that in the past.
We would have to work through the covenants in the senior debt in order to do that.
But we are finding opportunities for appropriate use of capital as we grow our business.
And so if we can get a 15% to 20% return on investing that capital in the business then that's something that we need to seriously consider.
As an example in 2014 we intend to put in a new trim board line.
And we want to expand capacity as Dave has identified multiple distributors outside of the New England area and we feel very comfortable that we're going to be able to expand trim board sales.
So looking forward to 2014 2015 we're going to need additional capacity in order to meet the revenue growth that's going to come from geographic expansion.
So we feel very good about being able to use capital to continue to grow the business and create shareholder value.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
So taking out the next step I think you mentioned M&amp;A to some degree.
When you look at some of the geographic expansion how much of it can you do either organically or through increased distribution rather than focusing on -- potentially on M&amp;A? We can do a fair amount of growth from organic expansion particularly in -- like in the Kleer product line and through new product development in roofing.
It's more difficult to do in shutters vents and blocks because we have fairly strong market share.
And so it's difficult to grow those particular products through geographic expansion because we have the best distribution system in the industry.
And so we're -- so you're not going to get that same kind of growth from those products.
But in the other product lines specialty siding roofing and our trim board product I think we've got great opportunity for organic growth outside of the existing geographies where those products are being served.
We have -- we've expanded geographically our block into Louisiana and we've since that acquisition which was probably I don't know for sure about 15 months ago we doubled sales in Louisiana.
So we've had very good success in our geographic expansion in taking our business model out of Texas and expanding it into Louisiana.
So we're going to look at opportunities to do that to repeat that process that has been so successful for us in Louisiana.
We have areas of the country that we can expand our distribution in stone.
And I mentioned the Southeast and into Florida markets some of that could be done through M&amp;A of a regional stone manufacturer.
I think that's clearly a possibility.
But there is also -- as we bring our good better and best 3-stone strategy into the marketplace we get very good reaction from our distributors.
About fewer than 20% of our existing distributors sell all 3 of our stone lines so flipping some of these distributors from one of our competitors' products -- so if we have a good better and best strategy they may be selling our best product but not selling our good or better product.
They may be selling a competitor's product for good or better.
So if we can flip them on the good or better product to our products at those price points that's kind of similar to a geographic expansion within a brand.
And so that's clearly -- we've got -- we have a lot of opportunity to consolidate some of our sales in our existing distribution to all 3 brands that we bring to the marketplace.
Our next question comes from the line of Seth Yeager with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Just a couple of just sort of cleanup items.
Can you give us some detail around siding shipments for the quarter and maybe how you fared versus the industry? And just as a follow-up on that on the siding and trim side where are you seeing resin costs now? And you had mentioned some price increases into next year.
What sort of magnitude are you looking to push through into the beginning of next year? So when we first order the price increases that we're anticipating relate to our block product group we should have some price increases in the 4% 5% range in block.
We're anticipating some targeted price increases in stone.
We're not anticipating price increases in the siding part of our business.
We're not seeing pressure on -- from resin pricing.
The resin prices have been relatively stable.
We did some reengineering of our use of resins and we changed our vendors and we're in pretty good shape going into 2014 relative to our raw material costs and resin pricing specifically in the siding part of our business.
So we aren't anticipating any significant price increases in 2014 in the siding part of the business.
Our revenue from some of our -- these siding products was lower year-over-year in the fourth quarter.
And as I indicated that seems to have changed and that trend has reversed.
So we're going into 2014 very optimistically about volume in the siding part of the business.
And then clearly October pointed us in that direction.
To some degree you can look at VSI relative to volume in that -- in the volume of vinyl as well -- in pricing to some degree I guess but mostly volume you can look at VSI and you can get a sense of -- as to what is taking place relative to overall shipments.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Got it.
Okay that -- now that's helpful.
I appreciate it.
And just one follow-up on some prior questions around allocation of capital.
Just looking at your -- I guess you sort of call it your optimal cap structure guidance of 2.5 to 3x leverage and just the guidance around EBITDA next year it implies to me at least unless I'm reading this wrong that you're either taking out a large chunk of debt or allocating cash elsewhere.
With the -- I guess your bond's not callable until 2015.
Is the expectation that it continue to take out your converts? And I guess just otherwise what's the primary use of cash? And then what sort of CapEx are you looking for next year? So I think what we're looking at from a CapEx budget next year is higher than in 2013.
So the CapEx budget's going to be $10 million $11 million higher.
The principal reason that the CapEx budget is going to be higher is because of the focus on growth.
And so you're absolutely right.
There has been -- we're now in a position where we can act to accelerate the growth of the business.
And one of the ways that you do that is through investing in growth CapEx.
And so we have opportunities to do that.
And as we have -- we've repaid nearly all of our 2014 maturity -- there's a little more than $7 million left and that will be paid in the March quarter of next year we are limited by our senior debt covenants relative to the amount of debt that we can take out of our $50 million tranche that is due in 2016.
So we're not going to be able to go into the marketplace and prepay that 2016 debt.
That's going to stay until its maturity date.
So we're -- we will be using our -- the primary change in the use of cash is to focus on our top line and to focus on growing the business.
If we have opportunities to redeem stock in order to return money to shareholders I said before we're not adverse to that at all.
But we will have to make some changes in the senior debt covenants in order to accomplish that.
Operator let's take one more question and then we'll conclude the call.
Our final question comes from the line of Philip Volpicelli with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> My questions regard the energy technology business.
You mentioned there are 2 new contracts coming on and then there's a potential 2 more after that.
But you said that your revenues would double.
Is that with the 4 contracts coming in or just the first 2 that you expect to come in? If we are -- on the first 2 contracts that we signed if those 2 customers order HCAT at the same dosage rate as our existing long-term customer then that will result in doubling our revenue from those 2 customers.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And Kirk what kind of contribution margin should we think about with that incremental revenue? In the 45% to 50% range.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then 2 cleanups.
You've mentioned in the past potentially spinning out or selling technology.
What size do you think you would need to get it to just spin it out or sell it? The -- we are clearly focused on heavy construction materials and light building products.
That is -- that's who Headwaters is.
So we need to be focused on those areas of our business and we think that there's tremendous upside and opportunity in both of those areas.
So as we -- as I -- as can be understood from those 2 new contracts if you can double revenue with 2 new contracts you've got some significant upside in this opportunity.
So we want to capture as much shareholder value as we can.
And so we are not looking to sell this asset in 2014 as we think that there are a number of customers that will be adopting our technology.
So we're probably looking -- I'm giving you a time frame rather than a size.
But we're -- probably won't be looking for a buyer for this business probably until 2015 because if you can double revenue with 2 contracts there -- that upside opportunity is there.
So as we drive EBITDA into the $20 million range -- $20 million $25 million range that's -- and we've got still growth opportunities that's probably the time frame when you start to look for a buyer.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one last one for Don.
The restricted payments basket I think is what you're all alluding to in terms of the ability to buy back equity.
What is the RP basket capacity at the end of the year? At the end of the year it's going to be in the range of probably $55 million as far as...
No the basket not the [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> The restricted payments basket...
The basket is around $5 million...
Right right.
The basket is $5 million [indiscernible].
The basket around $5 million.
If we're $55 million we could buy [indiscernible].
Sorry I'm -- I was talking about how much we would need to increase the basket...
Right.
In order to -- but we have a standing basket of about $5 million.
It's a limit over the term of the senior secured.
Beyond that like when you calculate the restricted payment amount right now we've got effectively a hole that we're digging out of which amounts to roughly negative $55 million which should be covered through -- largely through profits from the business.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
So the maximum stock you could buy back would be $5 million until you dig out of that hole? True story.
That concludes the questions.
I'd now like to turn it back to Headwaters for closing remarks.
Thank you.
With that we will go ahead and conclude the call.
Thank you for joining us.
This does conclude the conference call for today.
If you'd like to listen to a replay of the conference please dial (303) 590-3030 or 1 (800) 406-7325 with access code 4646500.
We'd like to thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Headwaters Incorporated First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today Tuesday February 4 2014.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Tricia Ross of Financial Profiles.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Headwaters Incorporated First Quarter Fiscal Year 2014 Conference Call.
There are slides accompanying today's presentation that can be found on the webcast link at the Headwaters Inc.
website under the Events &amp; Presentations link.
Please go there to follow along with the slides.
If you have any issues please feel free to e-mail me at tross@finprofiles.com and I can also e-mail you a PDF copy.
We would also like to briefly mention that Headwaters will be holding its Analyst and Investor Day on Friday March 7 2014 in New York City.
We would love to see you there.
If you are interested in attending please reach out to myself or Sharon Madden.
More details will be coming in the following days.
With that I would now like to turn the call over to Sharon Madden Head of Investor Relations at Headwaters Incorporated.
Thank you Tricia.
Good morning and thank you for joining us as we report Headwaters fiscal 2014 Q1 results.
Kirk Benson Headwaters' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Don Newman Headwaters' Chief Financial Officer will be conducting this morning's call.
And they will be joined by Bill Gehrmann who is President of Headwaters Resources and Heavy Construction Materials segment; and Dave Ulmer President of Tapco International.
While listening to today's call please remember that certain statements made during the call including statements relating to our expected future business and financial performance may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 both as amended.
Forward-looking statements by their very nature address matters that are to different degrees uncertain.
These uncertainties are described in more detail in Headwaters' annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
You can find Headwaters' annual report on Form 10-K quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings that are readily available from the SEC's website Headwaters' website or directly from the company.
I'll now turn the call over to Kirk then.
Kirk? Thank you Sharon.
So please turn to Slide 3.
One of the factors that was very encouraging in the quarter was our topline organic revenue growth both in light building products segment and in our heavy construction materials segment.
In light building products we produced 9% organic growth and all of our product groups grew year-over-year.
Heavy construction materials grew by 5% organically.
Adjusted EBITDA in our 2 core segments grew by 26% and most of the growth was associated with organic revenues and other cost savings.
The strongest area of growth was in our stone group because of its exposure to new residential construction.
Our acquisitions were both positive but they provided incremental growth to very strong organic activity.
Revenue in our trim product line which we have now owned for over a year grew 11% year-over-year and we have increased margins in the trim board product line substantially through cost savings and increased revenue and the December quarter was ahead of plan.
We believe that we will be able to continue improvement in 2014 through expanded distribution and continued cost improvements.
Heavy construction materials realized approximately a 4% net price increase year-over-year and also performed some high-margin service work during the quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA margins were up over 280 basis points a significant drop-through from revenue to adjusted EBITDA.
Our contribution margin was a little higher than expected for the quarter due to the price increases and a revenue mix favoring product sales.
Both core segments were impacted by the winter weather.
Fewer tons of ash were sold in the northeast through the midwest particularly in December.
The weather also had a negative impact on our siding accessory group because of its geographic strength in the Northeast and Midwest.
The weather is continuing to be challenging through January in those markets.
Despite the challenging weather the business has performed better than planned and we were particularly pleased with the organic growth.
Moving to Slide 4.
Relative to our balance sheet it is important to note that we remain committed to de-leveraging as measured by net-debt-to-adjusted-EBITDA.
Our goal is to be at 2.5 to 3.0.
And given our trajectory we would have easily been in that range in 2014.
In December we borrowed $150 million to finance transactions similar to our trim board acquisition and that is adjacent products in core markets sold to our customer base.
Additional acquisitions however will slow the improvement in adjusted EBITDA leverage ratio and may extend the trajectory to be in the 2.5 to 3.0 range.
It depends upon the timing and pricing of the acquisitions and how the business performs.
We closed the acquisition of Entegra Roof Tile a niche roofing business that sells concrete roof tiles in the Florida market.
The transaction fits our model of high-margin niche products with good market share and the products are primarily sold to our core customers.
Several other transactions are working our way through diligence and negotiations.
You may have noticed that we received an indication that the EPA is prepared to pursue RCRA Subtitle D classifying fly ash as it has been classified historically as a solid waste consistent with the Clinton administration and consistent with the scientific analysis.
Regulatory uncertainty has been with us for several years and the decision by the EPA is certainly welcome.
It feels very good that we can finally put the classification issue behind us.
I would now like to turn the call over to Don Newman to talk about our financial results.
Thank you Kirk.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Before discussing Slide 5 I wanted to mention that we intend to file our Form 10-Q later this week.
My comments today will be directed to the slides that were sent out this morning and to a lesser extent the condensed consolidated balance sheets and statements of operations that were attached to the press release.
Revenue from continuing operations for the quarter was $165.6 million up $16 million or 11% from the prior year revenue of $149.6 million.
The 11% overall growth in revenue includes a 7% organic growth rate from our core Building Products and construction materials segments in addition to growth from the core product line -- excuse me the trim board product line that we acquired in 2013 and the December Roof Tile acquisition.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations for the quarter was $24.3 million an 11% increase from the prior year adjusted EBITDA of $21.9 million.
Operating income for the quarter was $7.6 million a 27% increase over 2013.
Adjusted earnings per share improved $0.02 per share increasing from a positive $0.05 per share in 2013 to $0.07 per share in 2014.
Let's move on to Slide 6 for a closer look at the quarter's financial results.
We saw a number of positive trends in our core business segments in the first quarter including revenue growth and margin expansion which served to lessen the negative impacts of difficult weather in the Northeast and Midwest.
Consolidated revenue from continuing operations increased to $165.6 million a $16 million or an 11% increase from 2013 despite a decrease in our non-core energy sales.
Revenue from our core light building products and heavy construction materials segments increased 14% including 7% from organic growth.
Year-over-year revenue growth from acquisitions totaled $10.1 million in the quarter.
Light building products revenue increased 21% to $93 million compared to $76.7 million in 2013.
Organic growth in light building products was 9% for the quarter as all 3 major product groups experienced positive growth.
The stone group had the highest rated -- highest rate due largely to its exposure in new residential construction.
Heavy construction materials revenue increased 5% to $71.5 million compared to $68.2 million in 2013.
Revenue increases reflect fly ash net price increases of approximately 4% year-over-year.
Non-core energy business offset growth in our core segments.
Sales of HCAT were down $3.6 million year-over-year.
The decrease is largely due to timing of product shipments in late 2013 and early 2014.
Consolidated gross profit was $40.9 million in the quarter a 10% increase from the prior year gross profit of $37.2 million.
Gross profits in our core light building products and heavy construction material segments actually increased 16% year-over-year.
While overall gross margins were consistent year-over-year margins in our core building products and construction materials businesses actually increased 60 basis points to 24.6%.
SG&amp;A increased $1.9 million year-over-year largely due to operating costs in acquired businesses and to a customer development cost related to the HCAT business.
Operating income as I mentioned increased 27% to $7.6 million this quarter compared to $6 million last year.
Income taxes relate primarily to state income taxes.
We ended the quarter with approximately $190 million of pretax NOL carryforwards and $26 million of tax credits.
Those will shelter significant future income from cash taxes.
Those NOLs and tax credits remain fully reserved on our balance sheet.
Discontinued operations reflect results for coal cleaning.
We recorded a $700 000 gain for the quarter reflecting approximately $4.7 million for payments from the buyer including $2.7 million of deferred purchase price payments and $2 million related to certain receivables.
Partially offsetting these payments were adjustments made to certain contingent liabilities that we carry related to the coal cleaning business.
Additional adjustments to the gains and losses from the sale of the coal cleaning business may be recognized in 2014 as the contingencies are resolved and as amounts are collected from the buyer.
Now let's move on to Slide 7.
This slide reflects our quarterly revenue and adjusted EBITDA.
It highlights the seasonality in our business with a substantial portion of our earnings being generated in our fiscal Q3 and Q4.
Now let's go to Slide 8 and discuss debt.
We placed $150 million of 7.25% senior unsecured notes during the quarter using approximately $62 million of the proceeds to purchase an 80% interest in the coal -- the Roof Tile business and pay it cost associated with the debt issue.
We closed the quarter with a net debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio of 3.6:1 reflecting the $150 million of new notes and the purchase of the Roof Tile ownership interest.
We remain focused on our strategy to lower our net debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio to a range of 2.5x to 3x.
We are anticipating a strong 2014 as reflected in our updated guidance.
Our ending 2014 net leverage ratio will be impacted by that performance by acquisitions we may make including their timing and their multiples and it will be impacted by the pace of end market recovery.
Given the right circumstances it is possible that we could be at the high end of our goal range for net debt-to-adjusted EBITDA on a pro forma basis by the close of 2014.
However it is possible that achieving that goal will be a 2015 event.
Starting on Slide 9 Dave is going to cover light building products.
Thanks Don and good morning everybody.
On Slide 9 you can see revenues from our light building products segment for the first quarter increased by more than $16 million to $93 million an increase of 21% over last year in spite of negative winter weather conditions.
Revenue increased 9% organically year-over-year after excluding acquisition-related sales from trim board and roof tile.
We are very pleased with our organic growth which we experienced in each of our major product groups led by architectural stone.
Winter weather had the most significant tempering effect on our siding accessory products.
Revenues continue to benefit from growth in new housing starts.
Non-seasonally adjusted single-family housing starts for the 3 months ended December 31 2013 were 11% higher than housing starts for the 3 months ended December 31 2012 and calendar year 2013 was 18% higher than calendar year 2012.
Economists projects similar growth for 2014 bringing total housing starts to above $1 million still well below mid-cycle levels.
The increase in light building products revenues led to a 29% improvement of adjusted EBITDA for the quarter increasing $3.5 million to $15.4 million.
Adjusted EBITDA margins improved 110 basis points during the quarter.
These improvements are consistent with our 2014 plan.
It is important to note that we anticipate cement and resin price increases later in the year.
As a result we are already raising prices in the Texas market for our block products and we are evaluating price increases in other markets.
Our architectural stone product group has significant exposure to residential construction and continued its strong revenue growth in the first quarter.
The increase in revenue led to improved margins due to our operating leverage.
In 2014 we are focusing on gaining market share through major homebuilders that we believe will have an interest in using our low-priced entry product and the potential for upgrades to our Eldorado Stone brand.
Our good better and best strategy continues to serve us well in the marketplace.
We are also starting to get some traction in our efforts to expand the use of our stone product in the backyard uses like outdoor kitchens and extend the Eldorado brand to other outdoor living products.
As you know outdoor living products is a robust multi-billion-dollar market that is expected to grow at a healthy rate in the coming years and we are positioning ourselves to participate in that adjacent opportunity.
Commercial and institutional markets in Texas and Louisiana continue to have a positive impact on our block product group sales.
Texas' strong growth economy should translate to construction of schools and other institutional projects as well as commercial buildings all of which have long been the core of our regional block product group.
We benefited from our solid position in this great market and expect to continue to do so.
We experienced production inefficiencies in our block product group in fiscal 2013 as demand increased and we introduced several new product lines.
As a result we experienced lower-than-expected margins in 2013.
As discussed last quarter we have put measures in place to improve margins and cash flow in 2014.
For example we have terminated our third-party carrier and have expanded our internal trucking to cover nearly all of our trucking needs.
We started to see improvement in the first quarter as adjusted EBITDA margins expanded year-over-year.
As Kirk touched on earlier we completed the acquisition of 80% of Roof Tile in December.
The impact to the quarter was minimal due to the timing of the acquisition.
Entegra Roof Tile is a leading manufacturer of high-quality concrete roof tiles and accessories that are sold primarily into the Florida market.
This acquisition fit well into Headwaters' strategy to pursue niche building products where we can enjoy strong market share and adjusted EBITDA margins.
We saw slight improvement in our sliding -- siding group revenue as repair and remodel end markets continue to lag but margins were impacted by higher material and labor costs.
We expect repair and remodel to improve as home prices and sales continue to increase and the economy improves.
Now let's move to Slide 10 and talk about the trim board product line.
We're very pleased with the progress we've made integrating and expanding the trim board product line we acquired last year.
When we acquired Kleer Lumber last January we had a very clear two-prong strategy: one increase sales through leveraging our extensive distribution network and clear the independent lumberyard channel; and two improve margins through leverage efficiencies and cost reductions.
After our first year of ownership we have been successful in achieving that strategy.
We have started to have success in increasing distribution to our core customer base.
For example we recently gained Boise Cascade a national distributor in select strategic locations and expect the full impact to trim board to be between $4 million and $6 million of incremental annual revenue growth in 2015 when the relationship is fully implemented.
Note in the adjustments to EBITDA disclosed in the press release that we had some one-time buyback costs associated with new distribution.
Trim board revenue growth for the year was 11% year-over-year.
In addition we had a smooth integration into the siding group and realized the cost synergies we had targeted.
We have improved the EBITDA margins by achieving our 2013 cost synergy goal and we have identified additional cost synergies that were not in our original plan which we will realize in 2014.
Slide 11 summarizes this discussion.
Revenue grew during the quarter making it the 10th straight quarter of revenue growth year-over-year.
Adjusted EBIT also increased in the first quarter.
Now I'll turn the presentation over to Bill.
Thanks Dave and good morning everyone.
On Slide 12 you can see the revenue for the December 2013 quarter in our heavy construction materials business was $71.5 million compared to $68.2 million for the 2012 quarter resulting in a 5% year-over-year increase.
Headwaters' Client Services provides site services to many of our utility clients.
We had incremental service revenues associated with short-term service projects of existing sites which resulted in fly year-over-year revenue for the December quarter accounting for approximately 31% of our overall revenue for the quarter.
Since these services typically have lower operating margins than our product sales the larger mix of services in the December and March quarters typically contributes to the lower overall EBITDA margin for the segment.
We also saw an earlier winter and wet weather in several parts of the country.
This resulted in slight decrease in the tons of high-value fly ash shipped for the December 2013 quarter driven by reductions in the upper Midwest and Northeast while remaining flat along the Gulf Coast.
During the quarter we realized a net 4% year-over-year price increase for high-value fly ash.
Gross profit for the December 2013 quarter increased 15% to $16.8 million compared to $14.6 million for the December 2012 quarter.
Gross margin increased 200 basis points year-over-year.
Adjusted EBITDA for the December 2013 quarter increased 23% to $13.3 million compared to $10.8 million for the December 2012 quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 280 basis points year-over-year.
Operating leverage combined with our ongoing continuous improvement initiatives is evident as revenue of 5% resulted in adjusted EBITDA growth of 23%.
In a consent decree dated January 29 2014 the EPA agreed by December 19 2014 to sign for publication in the Federal Register a notice taking final action regarding EPA's proposed revision of RCRA Subtitle D regulations pertaining to coal combustion residuals.
We believe it is highly likely that fly ash disposal will be regulated under RCRA Subtitle D resolving the issue as to whether fly ash disposal will be regulated under RCRA Subtitle C or D.
For 2014 the PCA is forecasting an 8% year-over-year increase in cement consumption.
Total cement consumption in 2016 is anticipated to be approximately 106 million tons.
We anticipate as demand approaches and exceeds U.S.
capacity we will experience an increase in demand for fly ash to supplement Portland cement.
Early winter electric generation has allowed us to begin to inventory fly ash supply and higher year-over-year natural gas prices should result in increased coal burned and an improved supply outlook for us as we begin to move into the 2014 construction season later this spring.
I'll now turn the call back to Kirk.
Thank you Bill.
Turning to Slide 14.
I think the message relative to our energy segment is that our customers continue to use our material as part of their standard operating practices and the change in revenue year-over-year relates to the timing of orders and the level of inventory at the customer site.
We anticipate that the March quarter will reflect a normal order volume.
We completed a test at one of our prospective new client refineries and feel comfortable that the test generally met our expectations.
Our final report is due to the refinery by the middle of February and then it could take up to 90 days or more for the refinery to complete its analysis.
The equipment at a second refinery has been designed and we expect the construction to be concluded in the June quarter and the test be run in the September quarter.
We're also working with a third refinery that already has equipment in place and could begin using HCAT in the September quarter.
We have learned by experience that refineries are very slow to change and very slow to adopt new technologies.
So the timing that I've outlined is always subject to possible delays.
The graphs on Slide 15 show the quarterly comparisons for the first quarter of fiscal year to the first quarter of -- first quarter of fiscal 2013 to the first quarter of 2014.
Turning to Slide 16.
We're pleased to communicate an increase on our forecasted adjusted EBITDA range for fiscal 2014.
Our new range is $130 million to $145 million with the midpoint of $137.5 million.
Of course the caveats of weather end markets and cost deflation apply to forecast.
We have strong performance in the first quarter and feel comfortable with the trajectory towards our forecast.
Now I'd like to turn the time back over to the operator for the question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Rob Hansen with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to see if you could touch on the increase in your guidance and how much of that is just acquisition-related and how much of it is just having a very good quarter and a very confident in the outlook year? I think we feel very good about the performance in the December quarter.
By the way I'd like to welcome you to the call.
First call with us and we appreciate you joining the call.
So we feel very good about what happened in the 12/31 quarter.
And we probably would not have raised our guidance because so much of our performance is in the June and September quarters.
So even though the trajectory from the first quarter would have led us to an annual result that would have been in the upper range of our previous guidance we probably would have waited to raise guidance until we saw what was happening in the spring.
But we also did have the acquisition.
And so when you combine the very strong performance in the 12/31 quarter with an acquisition that we think has very good growth prospects and very good EBITDA prospects for 2014 we feel comfortable in raising our guidance.
So there's a -- still the performance in the quarter really supported us in making this guidance adjustment early in the year rather than waiting.
So it was a combination of both but the acquisition was very important to have us change guidance now rather than later.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in the heavy construction materials business you gave some nice kind of regional commentary there.
I just wanted to see how the performance stacked up more on kind of an end-market basis looking at -- I imagine obviously new residential construction was fairly positive but in terms of infrastructure and what not as well.
I'll let Bill comment a little bit on the infrastructure into what he's been seeing in our fly ash business.
I think one of the things that we saw in the quarter was the strength in the architectural stone product which has more exposure to new residential construction and it does have exposure in the Northeast.
We have a manufacturing facility in Pennsylvania that services the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic states.
We also sell -- we have manufacturing facilities in Ohio and very strong presence with our Dutch Quality brand in the middle part of the country.
So we were impacted in the Northeast and in the Midwest in our stone products but we also have exposure into California and some of the southern states.
And so we had very good growth in -- because of our exposure to new residential construction and because of the national exposure some of the regions of the country were less impacted by weather.
So we still performed quite well in our architectural stone product.
Dave why don't you comment on the impact of weather on Midwest and Northeast in our siding accessories? Because that's where our strength lies in siding accessories and we had a greater impact there.
And then Dave you can comment about infrastructure.
Yes I mean the -- obviously our -- a lot of our core is in the Midwest and the Northeast and we are definitely impacted by weather there with the amount of snow and the amount of cold.
There are just not people there are not installation crews working on jobs and if there aren't those jobs that are going on during the winter then distributors are not bulking up their inventory or keeping their inventory up as they normally would.
And the other things that also happened is the -- this cold and the snow that has gone in has also infiltrated and gone into the far southeast as well with what went on snow in Atlanta and ice.
There's an ice storm going in on in the Southeast today.
And that all in affects us as far as the jobs that are being done work crews that are out there working.
And then that affects backup to channel to distribution.
And those are primarily repair and remodel products.
That's where the end market exposure is primarily repair and remodel.
But offset that a little bit in the quarter was we had some good growth in our trim board product line as we mentioned in the script.
So that offset a little bit of the softness caused by weather.
But it's -- those are primarily repair and model product exposures.
Bill you want to talk about infrastructure? Yes.
Just a quick note.
Rob obviously the residential piece of our business tracks regionally with the color that Kirk provided.
But obviously a large driver for the heavy construction materials group is infrastructure work.
And we've seen a pretty good uptick in the activity in a lot of sites there.
Not only the number of projects but the size of the projects.
So we're starting to recognize flow through from that and in some of those larger projects it presents a nice backlog for us as we look forward.
And you can see that in January the sales in the North East and upper Midwest the tons in those markets are soft whereas the tons in the West are tracking a positive variance year-over-year.
So we're seeing the infrastructure activity as well as the new residential construction activity in the West and in those markets that haven't been impacted by weather improving year-over-year.
Our next question comes from the line of John Quealy with Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> I have 3 questions.
First in terms of the gross margin line if I read it correctly there was some movement lower in the gross margins as a result of some of the expansions in trim board as well as roof tile.
Is that a step up inventory charge? Or is that just the changing dynamics of the gross margin line was the first question.
The second question in terms of the Boise Cascade win was that a new product line a relationship for Boise? Or did you unseat an incumbent or a different solution there? And then lastly my third question on the M&amp;A pipeline can you give us some sort of feeling about when you think you'd be able to announce the successful transaction in '14? Or how should we think about that? Well let's answer the questions in reverse order John.
So first from an M&amp;A perspective we've got -- we have multiple transactions that we're working on concurrently.
One of the things that gives us some comfort that we can do that is because we've got -- we have our 3 product groups in light and we have Bill running our heavy side.
And so if we got that we have that broad exposure of product offerings that allows us to move forward with transactions.
If you had -- all of these transactions were focused in one management team that would be more difficult to do.
But because of the breadth of our product base we're able to pursue multiple transactions.
So I think that we're at the stage where we've done substantial due diligence on several transactions.
So we're nearing the end of the diligence phase.
We have -- we're engaged in negotiating a definitive agreement with multiple transactions.
So I think that there's -- we would anticipate that we would be able to conclude the negotiations with a definitive agreement to be able to move forward with several transactions.
So that's -- we're quite excited about the opportunity that we have to do things that are consistent with our core and provide us with growth that isn't a leap from our core but the things where we think we can get some synergies and where we can very easily integrate the transactions with lower risk.
The second question was on Boise Cascade.
So I think that -- Dave would you add some color to the questions whether or not we displaced other people with the Boise Cascade win? Yes the answer is in each of the branch locations that we had won that business we did displace competition.
Those are not new.
The product category is not new to those branches.
So we're quite pleased with that opportunity.
And we gave a range of $4 to $6 million.
There isn't -- there is the potential of course for us to extend our displacement of competitors with additional branches in the Boise Cascade system.
So -- and in addition to that of course Dave's working on other distribution opportunities for our trim board product because the trim board that we acquired is primarily in the Northeast and so we've got an opportunity to move that product into some of our strength in the Midwest and some of the other -- some other geographies that Dave is working on to expand trim board distribution.
Then the third question was the change in our gross margin.
There were a couple of things that were going on from a consolidated basis.
We had a drop in revenue in -- at HTI that's our -- the energy segment and that had a negative impact overall on our consolidated gross margin.
But then we had the acquisition of the trim board and roofing and Don's going to add a little bit of color to gross margin in the light building products segment.
Yes.
So John 2 things that serve to dampen our unadjusted gross margin.
As Kirk had mentioned we had about a $250 000 acquisition accounting adjustment related the roof tile acquisition.
And so that would have been some headwind to margin percent to the margin and to the margin percent.
Also when we captured the Boise business there were some take-backs on inventory and we ended up recording a reversal of revenue and also some impact in our cost of goods sold had a net effect of about $750 000 bad guy towards gross margin.
When you look at our gross margin you see the effect of that roughly $1 million of drag.
We do adjust for those 2 items when it comes to our adjusted EBITDA.
So you don't see that effect in the adjusted EBITDA margin.
Our next question comes from the line of John Baugh with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First Bill I think you commented on the PCA forecast and I think you said 8%.
A couple of things.
Is that volume or revenue forecast number one.
And then I know you don't really participate in the energy or wet cement could you comment on how you may or may not track PCA this fiscal year? Sure John.
The PCA is forecasted volume not revenue going towards your first question.
PCA obviously we track ourselves against them nationally and then regionally.
The big cement consuming regions of the country the big 3 are Texas Florida and California.
We have very strong presences in Texas and California not so much Florida.
So we lost that.
But watching them trend over the last 3 months and I have not reported December yet so we haven't seen those numbers.
I think we're trending very similar to them.
Does that answer your question? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then on the pricing there was that -- was the increase in effect for the quarter? Or just talk about pricing for fiscal year and product sales for fly and cement.
Yes sure.
I think we've got a very good track record in our year-over-year comps as we look up in quarterly.
We watch to see what the cement industry is doing.
They currently have $3 to $8 price increase is floated out there for the April timeframe going into this year's construction season.
So we think that continues to give us upside pricing upside and we hope to take advantage of those opportunities.
And so what we're doing John is we're looking at the pricing that was in place at 12/31/2013 for that quarter compared to pricing that's in place for 12/31/2014 and we have a 4% increase in the pricing year-over-year.
That number's being developed.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then could you Kirk or someone else just quickly walk through not individually product line by product line but maybe on a bigger picture basis.
You mentioned several price increases in raw material increases.
Short of -- are the pricing you're anticipating outside of what we just discussed on fly ash incremental or just offsets to raw material pressures? Any color there? Well so on the one place where we are currently engaged in price increases is in the -- our regional block business in the Texas market.
We are anticipating a cement price increase later in the year.
But when you -- what we -- because that's primarily institutional commercial sales.
We're committing a price being in advance when you actually ship the product.
And so we are anticipating that cost increase that's going to come in the -- later in the spring.
So we're raising prices now so that when we ship those products that price increase will already be in place.
And it's because of the time between when you commit to the time when you ship the product.
And those price increases are holding.
So we feel very good about being able to maintain the prices with the increases in them.
The -- we were unhappy with our margins in 2013.
And so we've taken that into account as we tried -- set these prices going forward.
And I think that we did see a margin expansion in the 12/31 quarter and we think as these price increases are affected in -- later in the spring that they will -- they'll be able to offset the cost but there might be a little bit of margin expansion associated with price increases as well.
Our next question comes from the line of Al Kaschalk with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> This is Taryn filling in for Al.
One question just in terms of the EPA commentary.
Do you expect this to drive the marginal customer off the sideline or does it -- or do you think it will take a little bit more just time? Taryn we'd like to welcome you to the call too.
I think that the EPA decision is -- will lift the uncertainty around fly ash.
It took -- we've been working with the EPA now for 4 5 years and the -- and there has been a cloud of uncertainty around the disposal of fly ash.
One of the things that we understand is going to happen is that the EPA is going at some point in time in fact we think it's going to be fairly soon.
The EPA is going to release a methodology that they have developed for the analysis of the use of fly ash in a different set of products.
And that methodology is -- will allow people to determine whether or not there's any impact from the use of fly ash.
We believe that when the EPA chooses to release that methodology they will also release their own studies of the use of fly ash in concrete and drywall.
And we further believe that that's going to be very positive.
So we've got -- you really have -- they haven't released that yet but we do think that it's imminent.
It's going to be released in the near-term.
And so you'll end up with 2 very positive statements about fly ash.
You'll have the disposal regulations under Subtitle D and then you'll have the methodology and the application of methodology for the partial replacement of Portland cement and concrete.
And those combined those 2 very positive announcements will lift the uncertainty around the use of fly ash as a replacement for Portland cement and concrete.
So we think that the marginal buyers that for example the Los Angeles Unified School District had stopped using fly ash because of the potential of a Subtitle C designation.
So buyers like the unified school district Los Angeles could very well come back into the market and use concrete with fly ash as a partial substitution for Portland cement.
So we feel very good about it.
We think that we might begin to see some of those marginal purchasers of concrete come back into the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
That's helpful.
And secondly what do you attribute the better-than-expected internal plan performance within light building products to? Is it mix volume price or it's a combination? So I think the -- we had good organic growth in the -- we had good strong organic growth in architectural stone because exposure to new residential construction.
That was an important factor.
We had good organic growth in our trim board with the expansion of distribution.
So that was positive.
And then we had organic growth in our regional block business.
So those 3 areas where we got that organic growth the architectural stone the trim board and the block.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then how would you describe the inventory in the channels today? How would you describe the customers' buying habits? Is it fewer large quantity orders or frequent low quantity orders -- low quality orders? I think Dave mentioned that the distribution -- this will be primarily 1-step distributors for roofing siding and windows.
Those -- that set of distributors have not increased their channel inventories.
And you can -- you would see that happening as they saw the winter weather.
So they would want to reduce their inventories knowing that the sales in the near-term are going to be impacted.
So I think Dave mentioned that.
And so I think that's consistent overall with what we're seeing is that there -- that we're seeing very little increase in our sales related to inventory levels in the distribution channels.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Mannes with Avondale.
LLC Research Division</strong> First question on the construction materials business you mentioned having some kind of high-margin service work during the quarter.
Can you maybe scope that out for us and how abnormal that is? Or is that stuff that maybe you're going to look to continue throughout the course of this year? Yes it's something that we all -- we've got folks in place.
And so when you have existing sites and then a utility wants us to do incremental site work that's a very positive thing.
And so -- because you already got the equipment in place and so you don't have a lot of incremental fixed cost associated with that both incremental same-site services.
So it's a very good thing when that occurs and it's going to occur sporadically but Bill why don't you share some cost -- share some color with Dan on that.
Yes.
Dan obviously on a lot of our sites we offer total ash management program so we're not only marketing fly ash but were also providing site services to them.
So when these types of opportunities come up obviously we're very competitive because we have people in place.
So in Q1 we had a lot of these nice projects spread across the entire business.
And as Kirk pointed out we were able to use existing equipment and manpower there so we got a nice contribution flow-through on that.
And we typically see that throughout the course of the year and we would anticipate to see more opportunities like that in the future.
LLC Research Division</strong> Abnormally large amount and how much did that impact the quarter I guess? Because it looked like Bill your business looked like it had a pretty strong quarter.
And I'm just wondering how big a contribution this was? And I was just kind of thinking through if I want to expect it.
I mean it was larger than we expected and so we -- as we have given guidance we've -- the guidance we've given is that the service revenue is going -- was going to be lower in 2014 than 2013 because of the change in projects.
And what happened was that this incremental service made up that difference.
So we ended up being flat on the revenue line in 12/31 quarter.
If it weren't for that incremental revenue we wouldn't have been flat in the 12/31 quarter.
So it was -- it made up that difference in revenue.
And it was a good margin revenue too because you didn't have to add any fixed cost.
So it was -- if we ended up being flat for the year which I'm not suggesting that we're going to be because this is -- it -- these incremental projects are up and down.
But if we were flat for the year then it would be in that probably 4% range for the year as the kind of revenue that you would be picking up from incremental projects.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's really helpful.
Just then real quick on the cost side in light building products you've obviously mentioned some of the volatility you're seeing perhaps in resin prices and it sounds like you're at least contemplating raising pricing for it.
Can you maybe remind us how much exposure you have what percentage of COGS is either by the individual product lines or in aggregate? Yes I think on the -- if you look at the percentage of revenue our -- some people look at the percentage of revenue and some people look at the percent of cost of goods sold but on the percentage of revenue I think the material costs run in the 35% range something like that.
No something probably in the 40%.
Okay 35% to 40% for material costs.
LLC Research Division</strong> And how material is resin of that 35% to 40%.
Well that's -- what we're talking about is the resin-based product.
So some of it's polypropylene some of it's PVC.
So it's different resin.
But that 35% to 40% those are -- that's the resin material costs we're talking about of the siding accessories part of the business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then the second thing I guess.
Can you just walk through to the extent you guys do decide to put through some pricing increases to offset that.
What if any lag would you expect to occur -- incur? Well one of the things that we learned the last time we went through this is that a lag in price increases is not a good thing.
And so you end up with -- when you buy the material and then you have raw material inventory you run it through your work in process you put it into your finished good and then you sell that inventory.
When you go through that cycle you're probably 4 months or so in that cycle.
And so you want to make sure so that's basically the -- if you had a price increase you could have a price increase that will take into account that lag.
But that -- we want to be really careful and we want to be assertive about that.
That's why Dave is currently looking at the opportunities to try to capture some of those price -- cost increases.
Dave why don't you share with everyone what you're doing to try to make sure that we take into account that lag and that we're acting in a timely basis? Well we're trying to make sure that first of all that you have a more nimble set -- more nimble on your inventory that you're not hanging onto as much of raw good in the event that there is an increase in those type of things.
So we're looking at what we're bring in what we're going out what's getting put into inventory.
Because you have to be aware that there will be a as we talked about distribution there will be a spring load-in it's just a matter of when that load-in occurs.
And so we're looking at those market dynamics and our internal inventory and then we're also looking what the resin markets are doing.
You can't necessarily look at -- just look at oil prices and say okay resin prices are going to follow.
There's more to it than that and -- but we have to look at where it goes.
Take the timing inventory throughput and those things into consideration and then look at the market dynamics that are out there.
The -- I guess the good news in the whole scenario is if raw materials are affecting us they're affecting everybody else as well.
And so we just have to look at all those things and make decisions that are best for our business.
Dan this is Don.
I want to be real clear too on the metric that we gave you.
It's raw materials are typically in the range of 40% 45% of COGS not of sales.
So I just want to make sure that we're on the same page with that metric.
Yes because I was talking about as a percentage of sales and Don...
Was talking about the percent of COGS didn't want to screw up your model.
LLC Research Division</strong> No that's really good.
And I guess then lastly from -- this is primarily just on the siding.
You're not going to have nearly as much resin exposure on the other product lines? No.
LLC Research Division</strong> Or any? So in reality it might be 10% of your total revenue for the light building product segment? The siding accessories represents over 40 -- that's about 40% 45% of revenue on the light building products segment.
Our next question comes from the line of Seth Yeager with Jefferies.
Fixed Income Research</strong> When we look at the proceeds that you guys raised for M&amp;A some of the EPA regulatory overhang goes away for fly ash.
Is that a business that we should think about you looking to expand? Unfortunately it's one that I think is less understood by investors or has more perceived risk but there's a lot of tailwinds going on there that generates a lot of cash.
I guess just what are the opportunities there? It looks like Lafarge appears to be selling almost everything in the U.S.
that isn't nailed down.
So with you guys being the largest in the U.S.
should we think about that as opposed to the LBP side? Yes we think that the heavy construction materials business is -- a couple of characteristic.
It was less volatile on the down cycle than our light building products segment.
And so it maintained its EBITDA and its free cash flow generation with less cyclicality than light building products.
So that was a very positive attribute of our heavy business.
There's a couple of tailwinds that are very positive for us.
One is that as the cement industry is coming into compliance with air quality rule into 2015 they've had to increase their cost structure they've had to make a significant investment in capital.
And so price increases are very important in the portland cement industry and that gives us an opportunity to continue to raise prices.
The other thing that happened in the last up-cycle of 2004 2006 or so is we didn't have enough portland cement capacity in the United States.
And so we had to import 25 million 30 million tons of portland cement to make up for demand.
And so what happened was the substitution rate of fly ash for portland cement increased during that period of time.
So now as we're starting to see you look at the PCA forecast and I think we talked about 116 million tons in 2016 that number clearly exceeds U.S.
capacity.
So you've got U.S.
capacity for portland cement is actually going to be declining because of these air quality rules.
And so you've got capacity going down at the same time that demand is going up.
And so we think that that is a very powerful tailwind that's going to make the -- our position in the fly ash business a very positive factor in over the next 24 36 months.
So with that background the bottom line is that yes we're interested in expanding that business.
It's low CapEx high cash flow.
It's got some very positive tailwinds that should propel growth in both the top line and EBITDA.
So we're very interested in expanding the business and we're looking at a couple of small transactions that could expand our fly ash business.
Thanks Kirk.
Operator with that we'll go ahead and end the call.
Thank you all for joining us.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by and welcome to the Headwaters Incorporated Second Quarter 2014 Fiscal Year Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] And as reminder this call is being recorded today April 29 2014.
I would now like to turn the call over to Tricia Ross with Financial Profiles.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Headwaters Incorporated Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2014 Conference Call.
There are slides accompanying today's presentation that can be found on the webcast link at the Headwaters Incorporated website under the Events and Presentations link.
Please go there to follow along with the slides and the webcast.
If you do have any issues please feel free to email me at tross@finprofiles.com and I can also e-mail you a PDF copy.
With that I would now like to turn the call over to Sharon Madden Vice President and Head of Investor Relations at Headwaters Incorporated.
Thank you Tricia good morning.
Thank you for joining us as we report Headwaters' fiscal 2014 Q2 result.
Kirk Benson Headwaters Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Don Newman Headwaters Chief Financial Officer will be conducting this morning's call.
They are joined by Bill Gehrmann President of Headwaters heavy construction materials segment; and Murphy Lents President of Eldorado Stone.
While listening to the call today please remember that certain statements made during the call including statements relating to our expected future business and financial performance may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 both as amended.
Forward-looking statements by their very nature address matters that are to different degrees uncertain.
These uncertainties are described in more detail in Headwaters' annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
You can find Headwaters' annual report on Form 10-K quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings that are readily available from the SEC's website Headwaters' website or directly from the company.
With that I will now turn the call over to Kirk Benson.
Kirk? Thank you Sharon and good morning everyone.
Turning to Slide 3 I'd like to begin the presentation.
So following our December quarter we continued to experience organic top line growth in spite of the very negative weather patterns impacting the Northeast and Midwest.
We had total revenue growth of 11% and organic growth of 6%.
The organic growth occurred in heavy construction materials through volume and price increases.
Fly ash volume grew in areas outside of the weather-impacted Northeast and Midwest so it's very encouraging to anticipate even stronger growth as the weather-affected regions start to demand more ash.
Organic growth in light building products was in our stone and block categories as our siding products are more heavily oriented towards the Northeast Midwest and Atlantic states and were significantly impacted by weather.
Adjusted EBITDA in our heavy construction materials segment increased 25% directly related to volume and price increases.
Adjusted EBITDA in light building products declined slightly by $0.5 million.
The decline in light building products adjusted EBITDA resulted from 2 factors: First the weather-related decline in high-margin siding accessory revenue in the Northeast and Midwest resulted in a lower-margin sales mix; and the second reason was a strategic increase in sales and marketing expense in our stone group.
The increase in stone sales and marketing expense is targeted towards specific activities designed to increase top line revenue growth.
So Murphy will discuss the marketing efforts in more detail later in the presentation.
So overall given the weather-related challenges the quarter was encouraging.
We see some very positive trends in fly ash volumes and pricing and stone and block sales.
April sales have been positive and trending higher than last year.
In addition our trimboard product line April sales thus far are ahead of last year as we gain new distribution at certain Boise Cascade and Huddick [ph] sites.
Those new sites should increase trimboard sales by 10% to 15% over last year and begin our diversification outside of the Northeast.
Our Florida roofing product line has experienced 23% growth during the quarter as we benefit from an overall strong market in Florida.
The only softness continues to be siding in the Northeast and Midwest as sales are responding slowly to spring conditions.
The conversations with our one-step distribution customers are encouraging.
They believe underlying demand is improving and the softness is weather related.
So we are anticipating significant improvements in sales in the Northeast as weather continues to improve.
In short we exceeded our internal expectations in the quarter even with the negative weather and the positives drive us to affirm our guidance for the year at $130 million to $145 million with the midpoint of $137.5 million adjusted EBITDA.
We've now completed 2 tuck-in acquisitions.
Both are performing according to plan generating top line growth and trending towards leadership economics consistent with our overall strategy.
We currently have $85 million to $95 million of cash available to invest and we moved 2 potential transactions forward.
There are several additional transactions that we have identified as possibly fitting our strategy.
Finally we remain committed to deleveraging as measured by net debt to adjusted EBITDA.
Our goal is to be at a ratio of 2.5:3.
And given our opportunities to acquire suitable bolt-on acquisitions we feel very positive about being in that range in 2015.
So I'd now like to turn the call over to Don Newman.
Thank you Kirk.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Before discussing Slide 4 I wanted to mention that we intend to file our Form 10-Q later this week.
My comments today will be directed to the slides that were sent out this morning and to a lesser extent the condensed consolidated balance sheets and statements of operations that were attached to the press release.
Despite tough winter weather revenue from continuing operations for Q2 increased $15.5 million or 11% to $156.5 million from the prior year revenue of $141 million.
The revenue growth in the quarter reflected 6% organic growth and 5% growth from acquisitions.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations for the quarter increased 12% to $17.8 million from prior year adjusted EBITDA of $15.9 million.
Year-to-date revenue from continuing operations is $322.1 million up $31.5 million or 11% from prior year revenue of $290.6 million.
Our core light building products and heavy construction materials segments combine to generate 6% organic growth year-to-date.
Year-to-date adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations is $42.1 million an 11% increase from prior year adjusted EBITDA of $37.8 million.
Let's move on to Slide 5 for a closer look at the quarter's financial results.
Consolidated revenue increased $15.5 million or 11% to $156.5 million from 2013 levels.
Revenue from our core light building products and heavy construction materials segments increased $14.4 million year-over-year including 5% through organic growth.
Light building products revenue increased 11% to $94.1 million compared to $84.8 million in 2013.
Organic growth in light building products was 2% for the quarter as growth in stone block and roofing more than offset declines in our siding business sales.
The roofing and stone groups had the highest growth rates due to strong growth in Florida roofing and to stone's exposure to new residential construction.
Our siding business which has significant exposure to the Northeast and Midwest saw its revenue decrease year-over-year as severe weather negatively impacted construction activity.
Heavy construction materials revenue increased 9% to $59.1 million compared to $54 million in 2013 reflecting both price and volume increases year-over-year.
Our non-core energy business saw its sales increase $1.1 million year-over-year due largely to timing of product shipments.
Consolidated gross profit was $38.6 million in the quarter a 19% increase from the prior year gross profit of $32.4 million.
We saw our gross margins increase more than 160 basis points including a more than 300-basis-point increase in our heavy construction materials segment margins.
SG&amp;A increased due to operating costs associated with acquired businesses and acquisition-related costs as well as increases in compensation expense and strategic marketing spend.
Operating income swung from a loss of $1.1 million in 2013 to a profit in 2014 in what is typically our lowest-volume quarter of the year.
Our consolidated operating margins improved year-over-year led by a 190-basis-point increase in heavy construction materials margins.
Income taxes relate primarily to state income taxes as well as alternative minimal -- minimum federal taxes.
We ended the quarter with approximately $203 million of pretax NOL carryforwards and $26 million of tax credits that will shelter significant future income from cash taxes.
Those NOLs and tax credits remain fully reserved on our balance sheet.
Now let's move on to Slide 6 and talk about the year-to-date results.
Year-to-date consolidated revenue increased $31.5 million or 11% to $322.1 million from 2013.
Revenue from our core light building products and heavy construction materials segments increased $34.1 million or 12% year-over-year including 6% from organic growth.
Light building products revenue increased 16% to $187.2 million compared to $161.5 million in 2013.
Organic growth in light building products is 6% year-to-date as growth in stone block and our roofing business more than offset declines in our siding business sales.
Heavy construction materials revenue increased 7% to $130.6 million compared to $122.2 million in 2013 reflecting both price and volume increases.
Our non-core energy business saw its sales decrease $2.5 million year-over-year due largely to timing of product shipments including the impact of shipments in late fiscal 2013.
Year-to-date consolidated gross profit of $79.4 million a 14% increase from the prior year gross profit of $69.7 million.
And while consolidated gross margins expanded 70 basis points year-over-year gross margins in our core light building products and heavy construction materials segments expanded 100 basis points.
SG&amp;A increased due to operating costs associated with acquired businesses and acquisition-related costs as well as to the -- to strategic marketing efforts and customer development costs related to the energy segment.
Operating income increased 65% year-over-year increasing from $4.9 million in 2013 to $8.1 million in 2014.
Now let's move to Slide 7.
Our net debt ratio ticked up modestly during the quarter due to our seasonal working capital cycle and the acquisition of Sinew.
Our cash balances typically decrease from December to March due to the slow winter construction months which was the case this quarter as well.
Our trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA improved approximately $2 million since the end of the December quarter partially offsetting the impact of the seasonal cash cycle on our net leverage metric.
During the quarter we also repaid $7.7 million of our 2.5% convertible notes.
Our next debt maturity is February 2016 when our $49.8 million of 8.75% notes are due.
Starting on Slide 8 Murphy will cover light building products.
Thanks Don.
Good morning everybody.
On Slide 8 you can see revenues for our light building products segment for the second quarter increase by more than $9 million to $94 million an increase of 11% over last year in spite of the unusually harsh weather.
Revenue increased 2% organically year-over-year after excluding recent acquisitions.
The poor weather slowed our organic growth in the second quarter particularly in our siding accessory business which has considerable sales in the Midwest and Northeastern United States.
This segment was also impacted by the lagging big-ticket exterior repair and remodel end market.
Our second largest end-market exposure on light building products is new residential which slowed somewhat in our second quarter.
Non-seasonally adjusted single-family housing starts for the 3 months ended March 31 2014 were 2% lower than housing starts for the 3 months ended March 31 2013.
This is the first 3-month decline since November 2011.
Economists have lowered guidance for the 2014 total housing starts to between 1 million and 1 100 000 which is consistent with our internal expectations during [ph] the year.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter decreased $0.5 million to $11.1 million.
Changes in our sales mix were the largest factor in the decline.
The winter weather in the Midwest and Northeast reduced sales of our high-margin accessory products while our other products which generally did show organic growth carry somewhat lower margins.
The combination resulted in lower margins overall.
Although April sales are still slow in the Midwest and Northeast we expect the sales mix to revert to normal later in the year.
The second largest factor impacting EBITDA margins was the strategic increase on our SG&amp;A spend to support revenue-generating programs aimed at the recovering markets.
These efforts include a variety of additional resources in the field targeting new home construction new consumer and trade advertising efforts coupled with web-based programs to pull sales through our distribution and expanded efforts to support our growing outdoor product lines.
While it's early in the season we're already seeing increased activity resulting from these programs beyond the usual seasonal uptick.
Our architectural stone product group continued its revenue growth in the second quarter.
We are focusing on gaining market share with major homebuilders using our good better best strategy which continues to gain traction.
Much of our increase in marketing spending is focused in the stone group and April sales are trending upwards towards double-digit growth.
We're also seeing results from our efforts to expand the use of our stone product into backyards with outdoor kitchens and fireplaces and to extend the Eldorado brand to other outdoor living products like our line of fire bowls.
As you know outdoor living is a robust multi-billion-dollar market that is expected to grow at a healthy rate in the coming years and we are positioning ourselves to participate in that adjacent opportunity.
Revenue from our block group -- product group increased due to its exposure to commercial and institutional markets in Texas and Louisiana.
Texas' strong economy should continue to result from the construction of schools and other institutional projects as well as commercial buildings all of which have long been the core of our regional block product group.
Margin improvement continues to be a focus after margins declined in 2013.
Trucking is a material cost and we've been able to materially reduce this cost by bringing more of its function in-house.
We expect margins to improve in the second half of the year as ongoing process improvements take hold and trucking costs improve.
We completed our acquisition of 80% of the Florida-based Entegra Roof Tile in December.
The business is performing as planned in the active Florida market.
This acquisition fits Headwaters' strategy of pursuing niche building products with strong market shares and high adjusted EBITDA margins.
Recently we've been able to improve our stone product exposure in the Florida market with -- through our relationship with Entegra.
We acquired our trimboard product last -- line last January and have made successful strides in our two-pronged strategy of increasing sale through leveraging our distribution networks and improving margins through scale efficiencies and cost reductions.
87% of our trimboard sales were in the Northeast.
We added Boise Cascade in the December quarter and added Huddick [ph] in the March quarter.
Both two-step distributors will help us diversify our sales outside of the Northeast.
We anticipate a 10% to 15% increase in 2014 trimboard sales due to the expanded distribution.
Year-to-date revenues for the light building products segment had increased $26 million or 16% while adjusted EBITDA is up $3 million dollars or 13% to $26.5 million.
Slide 9 summarizes this discussion.
Revenue grew during the quarter making it the 11th straight quarter of revenue growth year-over-year.
Adjusted EBITDA decreased slightly in the second quarter but we expect the critical 2 quarters to come to meet expectations and guidance.
Now I'll turn the presentation over to Bill.
Thanks Murphy.
Good morning everyone.
On Slides 10 and 11 you can see that revenue for the March 2014 quarter in our heavy construction materials business was $59.1 million compared to $54 million for the March 2013 quarter resulting in a 9% year-over-year increase.
We did begin to ramp up revenue from our Northeast fly ash source acquisition but virtually all of our revenue was organic.
Despite the abnormal winter weather that was experienced in the northern half of the country principally in the Northeast and Midwest our volume of high-value fly ash sales was up 5% year-over-year for the March 2014 quarter.
During the quarter we also realized the net 3% year-over-year price increase for high-value fly ash.
The market is continuing to strengthen into April.
Headwaters client services provides site services to many of our utility clients.
Site service revenue was up year-over-year for the March 2014 quarter driven by winter weather that caused an increase in coal-fired generation to meet heating demand and accounted for approximately 32% of our overall revenue for the quarter.
Since these services typically have lower operating margins in our product sales the larger mix of services in the December and March quarters contributes to a lower overall EBITDA margin that would occur without service revenues.
Gross profit for the March 2014 quarter increased 26% to $13.4 million compared to $10.6 million for the March 2013 quarter.
Gross margin for the March 2014 quarter increased 300 basis points to 23%.
Adjusted EBITDA for the March 2014 quarter increased 25% to $8.6 million compared to $6.9 million for the March 2013 quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 180 basis points year-over-year.
Operating leverage combined with our ongoing continuous improvement initiative is evident as revenue growth of 9% resulted in adjusted EBITDA growth of 25%.
Cement shipments for January and February were up 2% and we expect further increases in shipments in March.
Our fly ash sales will reflect the increase in demand for cement.
Through April we are seeing positive year-over-year fly ash shipments.
Most of the growth is in the southern part of the country particularly Texas in the West including California.
In addition we are seeing cement prices increase due to the tightening supply relative to demand.
The tightening is occurring because of increased demand and because of new EPA regulations that will lead to retrofits and may lead to shutdowns of some cement kilns.
The tightening of supply and the EPA-driven increased cost structure is driving cement plant manufacturers to raise prices.
The upward price momentum should continue to benefit our fly ash sales and allow us to raise prices.
As we mentioned on the last call in a consent decree dated January 29 2014 the EPA agreed by December 19 2014 to sign for publication and federal register a notice taking final action regarding EPA's proposed revision of record Subtitle D regulations pertaining to coal combustion residuals.
We believe that the EPA's statement makes it highly likely that fly ash disposal would be regulated under Subtitle D as a solid waste.
The court recently rejected the consent decree because it provided for extensions of the deadline without the court's approval.
The court has sent the decree back to revise the extension language.
On February 17 2014 the EPA released an exhausted study reaffirming support for 2 major uses: fly ash in concrete and FGD gypsum in wallboard.
In the release the EPA stated "The EPA supports the beneficial use of coal ash in concrete and FGD gypsum in wallboard.
The agency believes these beneficial uses provide significant opportunities to advance sustainable materials management." Winter electric generation has allowed us to inventory fly ash supply and higher year-over-year natural gas prices have resulted in an improved supply outlet for us as we begin to move into the construction season.
Sales of high-value fly ash have been trending positively and we anticipate year-over-year increase in the sales of high-value fly ash for 2014.
I'll now turn the call back to Kirk.
Thank you Bill.
Looking at Slides 12 and 13 we're finally getting some traction in the marketing of our HCAT technology.
Our current contracts cover approximately 68 000 barrels per day at design capacity and generate approximately $12 million in annual revenue.
We have licenses signed for an additional 81 000 barrels per day at design capacity.
We need to complete trial runs for the new customers and the ultimate amount of HCAT that is purchased depends upon a number of variables that could more than double the number of barrels that are treated with HCAT.
There's approximately 306 000 barrels per day of new capacity that may come online in the 2016-2017 time frame.
The new capacity is ideally suited to HCAT and we are being engineered into some of the capacity.
Our next growth step will be to get license agreements with this set of customers.
Turning to Slide 14.
Even though it was a difficult winter we feel good about the March quarter and the first 6 months of the year.
Approximately 70% of our adjusted EBITDA is earned in the June and September quarters so the summer construction season is critical to our forecast.
We are performing on track with expectations through the first 6 months and so we affirm our guidance of between $130 million and $145 million adjusted EBITDA for fiscal 2014.
So now I'd like to turn the time back over to the operator for the question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question does come from the line of Rob Hansen with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to kind of review what you said about April.
I believe you indicated that it was up year-over-year and I just wanted to see what kind of magnitude of an increase.
And then I also wanted to see which segment had the higher growth.
Was it in the light building products or the heavy construction materials? So we're really pleased with what we're seeing in the April sales trends.
In light building products we're seeing significant growth in stone and block still somewhat soft in siding.
We attribute that to the weather in the Midwest and Northeast.
So if you look at the increases in stone for example in April we're experiencing double-digit increases.
And the block a little bit less than that but still quite strong.
And as I said we're still seeing a little bit softness in siding because of the weather-related Northeast and Midwest.
The -- our new acquisition of the cement tile in Florida is probably growing faster than our other product categories.
So that feels very good going into the summer construction season.
If you look at our heavy construction side of the business we're - you can -- we manage the business into -- in 3 regions and we have a fair amount of detail of where the -- where our sales are coming from.
And you can look at that detailed sales report and you can see the softness in the weather-related sales in the Northeast and Midwest.
But you can see some very significant strength in the central part of the southern half of the country particularly at Texas.
And we're seeing some double-digit growth in shipments.
We're also seeing some growth in the Western part of the United States.
It's not as significant as the Texas market but we do have good margins in the West in California particularly.
And so it's always positive to see the West favorably shipping compared to prior year.
But -- so we're seeing some double-digit growth into April and that really makes us feel good about going into the construction season.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just regarding the price increases in the heavy construction materials business.
It seems like that was a little ahead of at least what I was -- what we were expecting.
Is that because of the kind of mix in terms of the West and the South seeing a larger component of sales and that's why you have the higher prices? Or if you'd seen the same type of sales growth across the whole country would you have seen that similar price growth? I think the -- we are again looking at our price increases from a very detailed perspective.
We've got -- we manage over -- nearly 100 different sources of fly ash and sites and so we're looking at these price increases on a site-by-site basis.
I think that we -- even when we didn't have as significant of growth in the -- in Texas and in the southern region we were still getting 3% to 4% price increases.
So I think we felt pretty comfortable with the price increase strategy and I think it's consistent with what is happening in Portland Cement from -- in following their price increases.
Bill why don't you add a little bit of color to that -- in response to that question? Yes sure.
As Kirk said we track pricing in a very detailed manner.
Typically price increases are implemented at different times depending on the market.
Typically April is a time where we see a significant amount of our annual price increases go into effect so we'll start recognizing those moving forward.
And then in some of the markets where we moderate prices in November and December we will see another price increase go into effect going into May and June.
So we expect to continue to see this trend.
So yes right now I think we feel pretty good about our ability to raise prices based on the market.
It's one of the tailwinds for our heavy construction materials business because we are going to see a tightening of supply as Portland Cement demand picks up and some of that is going to be replaced of course with imports as demand exceeds capacity.
So what happened in the 2003 through 2005 time frame when demand exceeded supply was we had an increase in the substitution rate for fly ash and the ability to continue to raise prices.
So we feel pretty good about that.
And then you have the EPA adding cost to the production of Portland Cement and so that gives additional pressure on the Portland Cement companies to raise prices.
All of that should help us to continue this trend of price increases.
Our next question does come from the line of John Quealy with Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions and I'm sorry if you had said this and I missed it.
In Florida in the cement tile business I think you said 20% type of growth.
Is that all organic Kirk? Did they have some channel expansion in that business as well? Just on the business you bought back in December.
Yes it's organic growth.
I mean we are -- we feel really good about the position that we have in the Florida market and the relationship that we have with contractors and that's driving that organic growth.
The other thing that was really quite positive is that we're starting to get -- because of the relationship with contractors we're starting to get some opportunities to introduce some of our other products.
And so we're starting to see the -- at least the opportunity to cross sell into the Florida market.
So we're feeling very good about what's happening in Florida and feel very good about the order flow looking forward to the sales in this first part of the summer season.
Research Division</strong> And the cross-sell opportunity do you think it manifests itself this year in '14? Or do you think we have to wait a year to see it on the P&amp;L? I think it's probably going to take a year to make it -- to have any kind of material movement in the P&amp;L.
We might start to see some incremental sales but I think that they'll be relatively small.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On the heavy duty side just one quick question.
Any major exposure to energy future and the guys in Texas there that are restructuring that company in terms of contracts or receivables? Or how do you think of that in terms of disruption if any to the ash market? Yes.
We've been tracking this very closely for over a year.
So this is something that we've known to the extent that anybody outside can know.
We have anticipated the proceedings and so we have been managing the business appropriately.
And so we do not believe that we got significant exposure.
They -- there are a couple of sites that are -- that do produce some high-quality fly ash and so those sites are important to us.
But we have very good relationships at the plant level and we have been managing the business appropriately for the eventuality of the proceedings that was announced.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then last question with the $85 million to $95 million of excess cash at 7.25% it's about a penny and a half or so depending on the tax rate.
Anyway it's $0.05 to $0.06 a year of accretion potential when you announce a deal or a couple of deals to fill up that cash balance.
You talked about a couple of more mature opportunities in the pipeline.
Again is this a handful of tuck-ins Kirk? Is it potentially a bigger deal or 2? The numbers -- it looks like the numbers can be much better just by covering the cost of capital on this one.
We are -- we think that that's all upside opportunity for us because we have the cash.
We've identified a couple of opportunities and we're talking tuck-in acquisitions.
We're talking acquisitions in the $10 million to $30 million range.
And we feel pretty comfortable that we're going to be able to invest those proceeds.
And clearly that will be accretive to our business as we invest those cash balances.
And our next question does come from the line of John Baugh with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> I was wondering on fly ash the volumes were awfully good in light of the weather.
Is there a way to look at weather-impacted areas and a forecast for how they may turn in June and September? Or is just the mix so good in the South Central region that there's really not a weather influence here? Well there is a weather influence John.
Our shipments would have been greater had it not been for the weather.
So we have been influenced.
But the strength of our business and the strength of our shipments and the way that we put together our supply sources and our interactions with the ready-mix customers all -- that has overcome that -- the weather impact.
And so our -- their strength has really put the impact of the weather behind us in a sense that we're continuing to grow in spite of the weather.
If the weather had turned and as it turns we would expect additional growth.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a follow-up on that the pricing outlook for maybe at least the June quarter based on fly ash can you give us any guidance on what you basically already implemented or are certain to implement in the next few weeks? Yes.
I mean we've been pretty consistent with 3% to 4% net price increases.
But Bill do you see something different in April? Do you see any additional strength? Well I think that's fair.
I think over the last 2 years we've been in that 3% to 4% quarter -- year-over-year increase.
We have seen some increased activity in DOT projects.
Sometimes those will have a little larger price higher price than our typical day in and day out so we may see some opportunity there.
But yes I think that 3% to 4% where we've been tracking for the last couple of years is reasonable to expect.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Great.
And then if I could ask a question on trimboard.
Would you care to quantify the March quarter and how much it was down? And you say you're in talks with distributors.
They're positive about the year.
I'm just wondering if we make it up in the next 2 quarters what kind of delta we're looking at between what we lost and what we'll make up.
Yes.
No on trim specifically it's because of the concentration of the sales in the Northeast.
We were down in sales.
But it started to pick up and it picked up for 2 -- primarily for 2 reasons.
One is that we've got additional distribution.
So there's a factor going on that in trim that's very positive for us because our goal -- if you look at like a Principia report or something you look where trim is sold in the United States you -- it's not 87% in the Northeast which is where we started.
It's more like 1/3 in the Northeast.
And so we've got a tremendous opportunity to grow our trim sales as we move distribution out of that weather-affected area.
And so what -- we -- if the like April sales are very positive trending up above plan in April from -- and so we're quite a bit above prior year.
And so as we said we expect a double-digit growth in trim sales for the year and April would support that kind of expectation.
And our next question does comes from the line of Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to hear a little more from Bill given the strong performance about top line growth 9% and operating leverage of 25%.
Maybe if there's a way to break that out.
I don't know if it's price volume and cost reduction 1/3 each but how about if we hear from Bill? Do you like Bill's voice better than mine? Research Division</strong> Well I figured I was going to ask for that detailed report and others will as well so we look forward to hearing that.
But I thought in the interim we'd better hear from Bill.
You'd like to skip the middleman.
One -- but I can't help myself.
But one of the things that -- to consider is that we've got about a 45% contribution margin in heavy construction materials.
So as you get the volume increase you're going to get a pretty -- you're going to get -- that's when it's going to fall through.
Of course there are a lot of other variables going on but we've been tracking this for a couple of years and we've got a very strong contribution margin on those increasing volumes.
And then of course the price increase is going to drop straight through to the bottom line.
That -- there are other variables that take place during the quarter of course that you might have a change of fixed cost or something that absorbs some of that drop.
But Bill why don't you go ahead and share with the group? Sure.
I think it's a mix of the 4 things probably: the revenues with site service product revenue which is pricing and volume and then our ongoing continuous improvement project there.
So site services has been a contributor to that revenue gain.
We're seeing good contribution margins from that and then obviously we've got good contribution margins from the product revenue.
And the guys and teams have taken a lot of pride in our ongoing continuous improvement projects and that's also a contributor to some of that margin expansion.
Research Division</strong> Well it seems -- I appreciate that.
It seems like the momentum in the softest quarter have plenty of room to grow in what are going to be your 2 strongest quarters.
Is that fair? Yes.
Yes.
Do you want me to take that Kirk? Sure.
Yes I do.
Yes.
I think based on the trends we talked about that we're seeing in April we'd agree with that.
In talking with the areas in the operating region they're seeing good backlogs on the product side.
We don't expect to see the winter hangover as we obviously experienced last year which gave us some supply issues towards the back end of Q4.
So yes I think we can continue to be quite optimistic based on the results of Q1 and Q2 and expect to see similar trends going into the next 2 quarters.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe a 2-part question on light building products.
First could you share the -- maybe the order pattern or the commentary that you're hearing from the one-step channel in particular? And then second I don't think these are related but I can't help to ask.
Softer quarter in terms of a seasonal trend higher SG&amp;A could generate maybe some more visibility are we at a level here where this is a period spend? Or is there a campaign effort underway over the next 6 to 12 months where the marketing spend SG&amp;A will be a little higher? Murphy I'll take the first part of that question and then come back to you on the SG&amp;A spend and the marketing.
So we -- in our conversations with the one-step distributors -- and these that we're talking about the guys there in siding roofing and windows.
Those -- the one-step distributors are anticipating a very strong summer construction season.
That's the feedback that we're getting from our core customers.
They clearly were impacted -- and I'm talking about the Northeast and Midwest.
They were clearly impacted by the weather and the -- if you look back at I think 2 years ago we basically had a spring that was delayed by about 30 to 45 days.
And what we ended up seeing 2 years ago was that the growth into the construction season was delayed by that 30- to 45-day period but then it was relatively normal.
And I think what we're being told is that we should expect a strong summer construction season albeit it's very slow getting started because of the weather patterns in the Northeast Midwest.
Murphy why don't you take the SG&amp;A spend? Yes.
Well the SG&amp;A spend is -- I mean this is actually the time in the market cycle when it really pays to spend some money on your sales force and on marketing.
And we really put this plan together over a year ago and we're executing it now and the early results are really what -- really are very encouraging.
As to whether or not we continue this into next year is really going to depend on how successful the program is.
If it generates the kind of revenues that we hope and expect it will then yes I think we will continue at least some level of expenditure aimed at the same kind of paying.
So I don't know if that's clear but...
Now I think one of the thing that's important is it's another category in which we have a very strong contribution margin.
In fact some of the stone contribution margin on incremental sales are some of the highest in the -- in our company.
So if we can do this SG&amp;A spend and generate these incremental sales it should have the impact of improving our overall EBITDA -- adjusted EBITDA margins in the end.
But we got to see.
Research Division</strong> What -- so what dollar level of spend have you budgeted for this particular program in fiscal '14? Or preferably how do you think about $1 of spend equals $1 of revenue or $2 of revenue? Or what's the conversion? We would anticipate the spend being in the $1 million to $2 million range and we would anticipate a very high conversion ratio of that spend into revenue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally we haven't heard much from Don.
So Don could you give us the CapEx and cash flow from ops for the period? Sure.
CapEx for the quarter was about $9 million and of course this is our trough of our seasonal cash generation.
So as you'd expect our cash flow from operations would be low this quarter and it was a negative $4.4 million.
Research Division</strong> That's for the quarter correct Don? Yes that's for the quarter.
And our next question does come from the line of Dan Mannes with Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of follow-up questions and hopefully I didn't miss this in your prepared comments.
As it relates to the light building products segment specifically on siding I think you were talking in your Analyst Day and on the last quarterly call about potentially putting through some pricing to recover your particularly resin costs.
Did that actually occur? Or is that something you guys are still evaluating? It's something that we're still evaluating Dan because what's happened particularly with polypropylene is you -- we have experienced cost increases for polypropylene but it seems to have settled and is now trending a little bit back down.
And so we've done some price increases around the fringe.
We've not done price increases into the core set of building product.
We're -- we feel very comfortable that if we see additional pressure and depending upon the conditions in the marketplace then we would be able to put a pricing -- a price increase in place.
But it -- the costs seem to have stabilized and seem to be going -- trending back down a little bit.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then real quick for Bill on the construction materials side.
We've obviously seen some pretty good strength at least in cement shipments in Texas for some time.
Can you talk at all were you able to divert more product to that market? Or how were you able to continue to grow that market? Was it -- are you either gaining share or increased substitution? Or are you bringing product from elsewhere? Can you talk a little bit about how maybe you're penetrating that market even a little bit more now than maybe you have in the past? Yes.
Obviously we've got a large amount of quality supply in the state of Texas.
As you recall about a year ago a little over a year ago we brought on another large source there.
We've worked on market acceptance.
So fortunately no we haven't had to divert fly ash into Texas from surrounding states.
We do have quality supply there and continue -- as that market continues to grow we continue to have a little headroom in that supply.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you do still have some excess supply in that market? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then I guess on the pricing side on construction materials would you say you're keeping pace with the market pricing for cement? Or are you still discounting slightly relative to the pricing you're seeing? We're trying to maintain.
We keep an eye on it.
You'll see broad price increases that are floated out there.
We pay a little more interest in what's actually taking place there customer by customer.
So yes we are trying to track that and maintain with that cement pricing.
Now as we continue to see impacts on cement demand we'll continue to try to track that take opportunity on the pricing side of that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last final one with the acquisition in the Northeast it doesn't sound like that did much during this quarter but can you give us an idea of maybe what percentage increase in terms of quality ash that gives you and how meaningful that could be in coming quarters? Well we made that acquisition midway through February.
When we acquired that source there was 2 to 3 foot of snow on the ground so we didn't see any meaningful impact in our year-over-year sales for Q2.
We're seeing very positive trends into April as the weather begins to break there.
In fact it's tracking at or maybe a little above what we expected to be selling there at this time.
But it's -- I think in the press release we announced that that provides us about an additional 150 000 tons a year up into that Northeast market.
And with our logistics system that's already in place we're able to move that outside just the state of Pennsylvania.
So I think we sold what almost just under 5.5 million tons of ash last year.
So that ought to give you an idea and we've shared headroom in supply.
So I think that gives you an idea of what that additional 150 000 tons a year what that does give us.
But that Northeast market obviously is one that's been impacted previously and will continue to be impacted by math [ph].
So we feel very good about having a 150 000 ton of fly ash supply up in that Northeast market.
And our next question does come from the line of Philip Volpicelli with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> The SG&amp;A marketing spend that was $1 million to $2 million for the year? Or was that in the second quarter? In the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with regard to the 3 new HCAT customers that are undergoing trials how long do those trials last? Have you had any preliminary results or feedback? We've completed our first trial at the -- the first of the 3 customers.
That trial has been completed.
During the quarter we finished our final report and so that particular customer is now evaluating the result of the trial.
We -- you'd never know how this is going to turn out because refineries are fairly complicated.
But the trial went well.
And so we're -- we submitted a positive final report relative to that first trial.
The other 2 trials the -- 1 of the refineries has the equipment in place and so we think we'll start that trial.
The trial probably starts in the September quarter.
And the third customer has had -- the equipment has been manufactured and is being installed.
And I think the installation and hookup will probably take place so that we can start that trial in a similar time frame.
So these trials will probably not be completed by September 30 but will be completed by -- in the 12/31 quarter.
We will submit some final reports to those refineries and they'll make a decision on becoming longer customers.
So we're feeling pretty good about all 3 of those refineries becoming customers in the end.
I mean their -- the technology now has been operating at a commercial level at Neste and it's been built in basically to their standard operating procedures.
There is really -- there really -- the commercial risk of whether or not this technology does what it's supposed to do is relatively small at this point.
And so there are -- as I said there's a lot of variables in these refineries as to how it applies in each specific refinery.
But we feel very positive about the prospects.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one for Don.
In the $130 million to $140 million EBITDA guidance for the year how much cash-based compensation tied to stock price performance is included in that assumption? That really only includes the -- largely the stock-based compensation that's been booked year-to-date.
There's a small amount of vesting that would occur in addition to that but the bulk of the expense is going to be what has been booked to date.
And you can see that in our press release as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then last one on the acquisition you guys mentioned that there's 2 that are moving forward.
What does that mean Kirk? Does that mean that we might hear about completion of those in the fiscal third quarter? I think we've got an opportunity.
You never know whether or not you're going to get it finalized.
But the timing is such that they could be finalized in the June quarter.
And our final question does come from the line of Seth Yeager with Jefferies.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Just one question on the energy business.
As you start to get some more customers onboard you've discussed in the past potentially selling this segment just considering it's still a drag on cash flow.
Could you just sort of discuss any timing for that? And have you had any preliminary talks with any interested parties? I think the timing as you know has been in my comments that there's about -- we're now serving approximately 70 000 barrels per day and the 3 customers' design capacity are over 80 000 barrels a day.
So those 3 customers potentially could more than double the revenue.
And then the new facilities that are being constructed there's over 300 000 barrels per day.
And so if you start to get some license agreements that dip into those -- and some of those facilities are larger.
There are some that are 60 000 70 000 barrels per day in a single facility.
So if you get some license agreements with a couple of those then you've got an opportunity to be able to sell a revenue stream and an EBITDA stream that has very significant growth built into those streams.
So I think what we would be doing is we'd be looking at -- probably the earliest we would look to have conversations with the buyers probably towards the end of calendar 2015.
By then we should have some of these -- some agreements with some of these refineries for that incremental 300 000 barrels per day.
And I think that's the time that you could probably optimize a sale for Headwaters.
So with that we will go ahead and finish the call.
We'd like to thank you all for joining us.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that will conclude the conference call for today.
We do thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect your lines at this time.
Good day and welcome to the Headwaters Incorporated Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
Today's presentation is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Tricia Ross of Financial Profiles.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Headwaters Incorporated third quarter fiscal year 2014 conference call.
There are slides accompanying today's presentation that can be found on the webcast link at the Headwaters Incorporated website under Events and Presentations link.
Please go there to follow along with the slides and the webcast if you so choose.
If you do have any issues please feel free to e-mail me at tross@finprofiles.com and I can also e-mail you a PDF copy.
With that I would now like to turn the call over to Sharon Madden Vice President and Head of Investor Relations at Headwaters Incorporated.
Thank you Tricia.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us as we report Headwaters' fiscal 2014 Q3 results.
Kirk Benson Headwaters' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Don Newman Headwaters' Chief Financial Officer will be conducting this morning's call.
They are joined by Bill Gehrmann who is President of Headwaters Resources and heavy construction materials segment; and Dave Ulmer who is President of Tapco International.
Please remember that certain statements made during the call including statements related to our expected future business and financial performance may be considered forward looking within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the SEC Act of 1934 both as amended.
Forward-looking statements by their very nature address matters that are to different degrees uncertain.
These uncertainties are described in more detail in Headwaters' annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
You can find Headwaters' annual report on Form 10-K quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings that are readily available from the SEC's website -- Headwaters' website or directly from the company.
With that I will now turn the call over to Kirk Benson.
Kirk? Thank you Sharon.
We enjoyed a positive quarter largely consistent with our expectations realizing revenue operating income and adjusted EBITDA growth.
Key highlights from the quarter include: We had a very strong quarter in heavy construction materials adjusted EBITDA margins expanded to 24.4% the highest margin for a June quarter since 2008.
Our stone product line experienced double-digit topline growth with expanded margins.
Our regional block product line benefited from the strong economy in Texas and also showed topline growth and expanded margins over 2013 as we improved manufacturing and lowered transportation costs.
And our roofing revenue grew at a double-digit rate.
But other siding accessories were impacted by a slow start to the construction season in the Midwest and Northeast.
Turning to Slide 3.
We feel good about our core segment growth of 15% including organic growth of 9% in light building products and 7% in heavy construction materials.
Even with the slowing of new residential construction we have organic growth in a very strong Texas market new product offerings in roofing and stone and growth in fly ash volume and price.
In addition our acquisitions are performing well and some are performing better than expected.
Headwaters' adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 100 basis points and EBITDA grew by 19% in the quarter.
As noted adjusted EBITDA margin in heavy construction materials expanded by 300 basis points but adjusted EBITDA margin in light building products compressed slightly primarily due to sales mix.
We had an increase in lower margin block roofing and trimboard revenue relative to higher-margin siding accessories which impacted our sales mix and resulted in a 100-basis-point decline in adjusted EBITDA margin.
Although the softness in light building products margins was primarily related to sales mix we also experienced some raw material and other cost increases.
Our calculation of adjusted earnings per share is included in the press release and takes into account many of the same adjustments used in our adjusted EBITDA calculation and is presented to share perspective on the ongoing earnings power of the company.
In addition since we are the beneficiaries of multiple acquisitions we have a relatively high level of intangible amortization which is a noncash expense in our GAAP financial presentation but is an adjustment in adjusted earnings per share.
Our adjusted earnings per share grew 32% year-over-year to $0.29 per share in the quarter.
From a balance sheet perspective if our growth trends continue as they have in 2014 taking into account a full year of performance from our acquisitions we could be in our targeted range of 2.5 to 3x net debt to adjusted EBITDA towards the end of 2015.
Actions that could change the trajectory include additional opportunistic acquisitions to fill out our niche product lines or change in trends.
We grew adjusted EBITDA by $7 million or 19% in the quarter and finished the quarter with trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA of $128 million.
Our growth in the fourth quarter should put us well inside our guidance range of $130 million to $145 million.
Turning to Slide 4.
Entegra our concrete roof tile acquisition in Florida performed well during the quarter.
Revenue and EBITDA were up year-over-year double digits but we saw a little softening in June and July sales as we were impacted by rain and by a somewhat slower end market.
Our 2 recent acquisitions stone coated metal roofing and CFB ash are both performing well with no early surprises and we expect synergies from both transactions.
I'd now like to turn the time over to Don Newman our Chief Financial Officer.
Thank you Kirk.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Before discussing Slide 5 I wanted to mention that we intend to file our Form 10-Q later this week.
My comments today will be directed to the slides that were sent out this morning and to a lesser extent the condensed consolidated balance sheets and statements of operations that were attached to the press release.
Our third quarter of 2014 marked the 12th consecutive quarter of year-over-year revenue and adjusted EBITDA growth for the company driven by a strong organic growth as well as solid performance from our recent acquisitions.
Revenue from continuing operations for Q3 increased $26.4 million or 13% to $23.4 million from the prior year revenue of $197 million.
The revenue growth in the quarter reflected 7% organic growth and 6% growth from acquisitions.
Our core light building products and heavy construction materials segments combined to generate 8% organic growth in the quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations for the quarter increased 19% to $44.9 million from a prior year adjusted EBITDA of $37.6 million.
Year-to-date revenue from continuing operations is $545.5 million up $57.9 million or 12% from prior year revenue of $487.6 million.
Our core light building products and heavy construction materials segments combined to generate 7% organic growth year-to-date.
Year-to-date adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations is $87 million a 15% increase from prior year adjusted EBITDA of $75.4 million.
And adjusted net income from continuing operations increased 42% year-to-date and 32% for the quarter as operating performance improvement reached the bottom line.
Let's move on to Slide 6 for a closer look at the quarter's financial results.
Led by the heavy construction materials segment we saw a number of positive revenue and margin trends in the quarter.
Consolidated revenue from continuing operations increased to $223.4 million a $26.4 million or 13% increase from 2013 despite a decrease in our noncore energy sales.
Revenue from our core light building products and heavy construction materials segments increased 15% including 8% from organic growth.
Light building products revenue increased 19% to $140.6 million compared to $118 million in 2013.
Organic growth in light building products was 9% for the quarter with stone block and our roofing products experiencing the highest year-over-year growth rates.
Heavy construction materials revenue increased 7% to $80.6 million compared to $75.1 million in 2013.
Revenue increases reflect fly ash net price increases of approximately 4% as well as volume increases of approximately 7% partially offset by a lower services revenue due to completing contracts.
Our noncore energy group partially offset growth in our core segments.
Sales of HCAT were down $1.7 million year-over-year as current customer outages and on-site inventory levels resulted in lower HCAT orders.
Consolidated gross profit was $67.7 million in the quarter a 16% increase from the prior year gross profit of $58.5 million.
Gross profit in our core light building products and heavy construction materials segments increased nearly 18% year-over-year.
Gross margins for those core segments expanded more than 80 basis points to nearly 30% or approximately 30%.
SG&amp;A increased due to operating cost of acquired businesses and acquisition-related costs to strategic marketing spend and other nonroutine items as well as compensation costs related to stock price increases and routine wage increases.
Now let's move to Slide 7 and talk about the year-to-date results.
Year-to-date consolidated revenue increased $57.9 million or 12% to $545.5 million from 2013 levels.
Revenue from our core light building products and heavy construction materials segments increased $62 million or 13% year-over-year including 7% from organic growth.
Light building products revenue increased 17% to $327.7 million compared to $279.5 million in 2013.
Organic growth in light building products is 7% year-to-date as growth in the stone block and roofing products more than offset declines in our siding group sales.
Heavy construction materials revenue increased 7% to $211.3 million compared to $197.3 million in 2013 reflecting both price and volume increases year-over-year.
Our noncore energy business saw sales decrease $4.2 million year-over-year due to timing of product shipments driven by customer outages and on-site inventory levels.
Year-to-date consolidated gross profit is $147.1 million a 15% increase from the prior year gross profit of $128.2 million.
SG&amp;A increased due to operating costs of acquired businesses and acquisition-related costs as well as to strategic marketing efforts customer development costs related to the energy segment as well as increases in compensation expense.
Now let's move to Slide 8.
Our trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA improved $7.3 million in the quarter and our net debt ratio ticked up modestly due to our acquisition of Metal USA's stone coated roofing product line.
We ended the quarter in a strong liquidity position with $114.5 million of cash and an undrawn revolver.
At the close of the quarter approximately $57 million of proceeds remain from our 7.25% note issuance in December of which $7.4 million was used in July to purchase the assets of LA Ash.
Our recent bolt-on acquisitions have performed well and have contributed to revenue and adjusted EBITDA growth.
We financed most of these acquisitions with debt yet we remain focused on reducing our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio to the 2.5 to 3x range.
Based on current trends and our capital structure we currently expect to achieve this objective in late 2015 although additional acquisitions could extend the timing.
Starting on Slide 9 Dave will cover light building products.
Thanks Don and good morning everybody.
On Slide 9 you can see revenues from our light building products segment for the third quarter increase by $23 million to $141 million an increase of 19% over last year.
Revenue increased 9% organically year-over-year.
We saw a revenue growth in the quarter in stone and block but our siding group was flat due to reduced sales in our vinyl siding related products.
During fiscal year 2013 we received the benefit from our end market exposure to new residential construction as non-seasonally adjusted single-family housing starts grew 19% over fiscal 2012 levels.
In fiscal year 2014 growth has slowed to 4% year-to-date.
The most recent quarter ended June 30 2014 was in line with the trend at 3.5% higher than single-family housing starts for the 3 months ended June 30 2013.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter increased $3.6 million to $29.6 million.
Margins contracted slightly due to changes in our sales mix raw material and transportation cost increases as well as increased SG&amp;A spend in our stone group to take advantage of market share opportunities.
The sales mix impact on margins resulted from soft sales in our higher-margin accessory products that closely followed vinyl siding sales and revenue growth in trimboard block and roofing.
We also experienced increased cost in raw materials principally polypropylene PVC and cement.
Finally EBITDA margins were impacted by strategic increases in our stone group SG&amp;A spend to support revenue-generating programs aimed at the recovering markets.
These efforts included a variety of additional resources in the field targeting new home construction new consumer and trade advertising efforts coupled with web-based programs to pull sales to our distribution and expanded efforts to support our growing outdoor product lines.
Our stone group did experience revenue growth and overall margin expansion in the quarter.
We also saw increases in raw material and transportation costs.
If these costs continue to increase we will act appropriately.
We may implement price increases in addition to continuing to look for manufacturing efficiencies to maintain margin integrity.
Our architectural stone product group had strong revenue growth in the third quarter.
We are focusing on gaining market share with major homebuilders using our good better best strategy which continues to gain traction.
Much of our increase in marketing spend is focused in our stone group and third quarter sales were positively impacted.
The Eldorado brand had seen significant increases in awareness and customer activity within the remodel and user markets.
The application of our stone products is expanding beyond exterior facades to also include interior applications and outdoor living spaces.
As you know outdoor living is a robust multibillion-dollar market that is expected to grow at a healthy rate in the coming years.
And we are positioning ourselves to participate in that adjacent opportunity.
The siding group had flat sales for the quarter as a decrease in the higher-margin siding accessory sales were offset by increases in roofing and trimboard.
This sales mix hurt margins.
Siding accessories' product sales were negatively impacted by the weather at the start of the quarter but as weather improved we saw sales follow providing year-over-year growth for the month of June.
Despite the progress in the accessory sales late in the quarter we are taking specific actions to improve margins as we finish out 2014 and head into 2015.
Our legacy composite roofing products performed very well in the quarter with over 20% growth year-over-year.
In addition the new roofing product that we introduced this spring had had a very successful rollout and is exceeding expectations.
We are positioned to introduce new roofing products into the market this fall.
Trimboard had another successful quarter as we expand distribution beyond New England.
And we are receiving the second set of orders from new distribution points.
Revenue from our block product group increased due to its exposure to commercial and institutional markets in Texas and Louisiana.
Texas' strong economy should continue to result in the construction of schools and other institutional projects as well as commercial buildings all of which have long been the core of our regional block product group.
We've seen healthy improvements in margins for the quarter and year-to-date due to sales increases manufacturing efficiencies and other cost improvements like reducing trucking expense.
In May we acquired the assets of Metals USA stone coated niche metal roofing product line.
They have strong market share under the Gerard and Allmet brands.
This stone coated niche roofing product complements our concrete and composite-based niche roofing products broadening our product categories as well as our geographic footprint.
Consistent with prior acquisitions we believe stone coated roofing will be accretive to earnings per share and cash flow.
Our other recent acquisitions of Entegra roof tile and Kleer trimboard products continue to perform well.
Revenues for both increased in the quarter.
We continue to look for opportunities that fit our acquisition criteria both strategically and financially.
Turning to Slide 10.
You can see year-to-date revenues for the light building products segment have increased $48 million or 17% 7% of the growth coming organically.
Adjusted EBITDA year-to-date is up $6.6 million or 13% to $56.1 million.
Revenue grew during the quarter making it the 12th straight quarter of revenue growth year-over-year.
Adjusted EBITDA also increased year-over-year for the quarter.
Now I'll turn the presentation over to Bill.
Thanks Dave and good morning everyone.
On Slides 11 and 12 you can see that revenue for the June 2014 quarter in our heavy construction materials business was $80.6 million compared to $75.1 million for the June 2013 quarter resulting in a 7% year-over-year increase.
Despite the abnormal wet weather that was experienced in the Midwest and along parts of the Gulf Coast our tons of high-value fly ash sold were up 7% for the year-over-year for the June 2014 quarter.
During the quarter we also realized a net 4% year-over-year price increase for high-value fly ash.
Headwaters' Plant Services provides site services to many of our utility clients.
Site service revenue was down year-over-year for the June quarter due to the completion of service projects and accounted for approximately 22% of our overall revenue for the quarter compared to 25% for the June 2013 quarter.
Site service revenue as a percent of total segment revenue is normally higher in the December and March quarters and lower in the June and September quarters primarily due to seasonality.
Gross profit for the June 2014 quarter increased 15% to $23.6 million compared to $20.5 million for the June 2013 quarter.
Gross margin for the June 2014 quarter increased 200 basis points to 29%.
Adjusted EBITDA for the June 2014 quarter increased 22% to $19.7 million compared to $16.1 million for the June 2013 quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 300 basis points year-over-year.
Operating leverage combined with our ongoing continuous improvement initiatives is evident as revenue growth at 7% resulted in adjusted EBITDA growth of 22%.
On a $5.5 million revenue increase adjusted EBITDA grew $3.6 million or 65% somewhat higher than our normal contribution margin because of the price increase impact.
Year-over-year cement shipments for April and May were up and we expect further increases in shipments reported for June.
In addition we continue to see cement prices increase due to tightening supply relative to demand.
The tightening is occurring because of increased demand and because of the new EPA regulations that will lead to retrofits and may lead to the shutdown of some cement kilns.
Also not only could the new EPA regulations restrict supply but the incremental cost associated with the regulations could cause cement production cost to increase by as much as 25%.
The tightening of supply and the EPA-driven increase cost structure is driving cement manufacturers to raise prices.
The upward price momentum should continue to benefit our fly ash sales and allow us to raise prices.
As we mentioned on the last call in a consent decree dated January 29 2014 the EPA agreed by December 19 2014 to sign for publication in the Federal Register a notice taking final action regarding EPA's proposed revision of RCRA Subtitle D regulations pertaining the coal combustion residuals.
In June the EPA proposed CO2 mitigation rules and continued to signal the Subtitle D approach to fly ash disposal through its strategy of aligning Subtitle D disposal modifications with new effluent limitation guidelines.
On July 14 we announced our acquisition of LA Ash Products and Services.
The acquisition of the assets of this CFB ash marketer will immediately strengthen our position to meet customer needs along the Gulf Coast.
We have excess supply of CFB ash and LA Ash's current customer base is demanding more products than it can supply.
We should be able to increase our sales of CFB ash to LA Ash's customer base and further benefit from its sales staff to promote further use of CFB ash.
The September quarter is typically our strongest quarter and the tailwinds we are experiencing should carry over into 2015.
I'll now turn the call back over to Kirk.
Thank you Bill.
Turning to Slide 13.
Our remaining energy asset consists of a proprietary technology that is used to catalytically upgrade low-quality heavy oil.
For the third quarter of 2014 revenue from continuing operations in our energy segment was $2.2 million compared to $3.9 million in 2013.
Revenue was primarily impacted by the timing of shipments and not for many fundamental change in customer demand.
Adjusted EBITDA was a negative $0.6 million in 2014 compared to a positive $0.3 million in 2013.
We expect to have completed by the end of December all 3 trial periods for our 3 new potential customers.
Refineries are quite slow to make significant changes in their catalyst especially if the catalyst represents a different technology.
We are comfortable that we will continue to add to our existing customer base through the expanding acknowledgment that HCAT adds value to the heavy oil refining process.
Slide 14 summarizes the revenue on adjusted EBITDA quarterly comparison year-over-year.
The timing of HCAT orders may result in approximately $3 million lower adjusted EBITDA for fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 of which $2.3 million has already impacted us through June 30.
Concluding on Slide 15 we believe that our adjusted EBITDA will be within our guidance range for 2014.
Trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA was $128 million as of June with a $7 million increase over prior year in the quarter.
Family formation affordability and employment weaknesses have resulted in a softening in the new residential -- in new residential construction.
But Headwaters have a diversified product set end markets and geographic exposure.
More than 20% of our revenue is generated in Texas.
We successfully introduced a number of new products.
And our bolt-on acquisitions have performed particularly well.
So we anticipate another strong quarter to end the year both on the topline and adjusted EBITDA and look forward to substantial growth in 2015.
I'd now like to turn the time back to the operator for the question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] And we will first hear from Rob Hansen of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So this is kind of a question about your guidance and the reaffirmation.
So kind of thinking about the slowness you saw in siding accessories and then now you're expecting a little bit lower EBITDA from the energy technology segment.
So does this imply that we're expecting a pretty robust quarter from heavy construction materials? I guess is that the right way to think about it? Or are you expecting that we're going to see some rebound in siding accessories or concrete block or stone siding to kind of offset the weakness in siding accessories? We anticipate that we're going to have some strength in stone block and in ash.
And that should help to offset some of the softness in the accessories and in the HCAT technology.
If you take $128 million of trailing 12-months adjusted EBITDA and add the growth that we had in the June 30 quarter $7 million it gets you to $135 million of adjusted EBITDA for the year which of course is well within our guidance range.
It's a little bit below the midpoint of the range but that's probably -- directionally that's kind of where we will potentially end up for the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
So and then another question on kind of just the trends you've seen in July.
And I'm thinking especially in the siding accessories in terms of kind of the big-ticket purchases there have you seen any -- have you seen the June strength kind of continue at all? I think that I was reviewing the July sales this morning before coming into the call.
And our sales orders in our siding accessory group are up year-over-year.
And ultimately those orders translate into sales.
There's of course a little bit of lag from a timing perspective.
But ultimately they do they convert into sales as the orders are shipped.
So within that there's still a little bit of a sales mix going on.
We had stronger growth in the roofing on our composite roofing legacy products.
But it's still growing at a faster rate than our shutters mounting blocks vents and tools.
Those are the higher-margin products.
There was overall growth in those products in sales orders.
But not as -- but the growth is more rapid in the roofing part of the business.
So we -- I think that the order trend between June and going into July is relatively consistent.
Dave why don't you add a little bit of color to that response? Well I agree.
They are up year-over-year.
It's -- they -- we're seeing some slight improvement.
We'd always like to see certainly would like to see a little more but we're -- what we're seeing is slight improvement in those building products categories.
The trim products and the roofing products are far exceeding the growth curve of the others and we expect to continue to see not huge jumps in the market but to see for the rest of the fiscal year for that trend to continue.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
One last question was just in -- for the heavy construction materials business.
I think we heard some other cement guys talk about some rail congestion in the quarter.
Did you guys have any issues with that to impact your results this quarter? Bill why don't you go ahead and respond? Yes I think Rob we're seeing similar issues with rail traffic.
We're spending a lot of time with the railroads.
We're actually working hand-in-hand with some of the cement companies trying to address these issues.
But yes we've seen similar rail congestion as activity picks up throughout the system.
One of the very positive -- I was going to add just that one of the very positive things that Bill has done over the last couple of years is increase the efficiency of our railcar utilization.
It's actually -- it amounts to a very dramatic decrease in the number of railcars that we have to use as we have optimized our utilization.
So that's offset some of the inefficiencies of the rail system in the United States.
And if the world were perfect you probably wouldn't use the rail system at all.
But of course we have to.
But the improved efficiencies have offset some of the issues related to the rail system.
Sorry I interrupted.
You were going to follow up with another question there? Research Division</strong> No no.
I was just saying it doesn't seem like it was a full out impact to me.
And I guess you kind of answered that follow-up question already.
And John Quealy of Canaccord has our next question.
Research Division</strong> So the first question on light building products 9% organic growth in the quarter.
Can you quantify or give us a range what weather did? And then also what the siding headwind was to that number? I think that of course the weather impact in the 3/31 quarter was much more significant than what we experienced in the June quarter.
And primarily the weather impact was related to the Northeast and Midwest.
And so I don't -- we haven't estimated a dollar value associated with the impact from weather in those 2 regions.
You can see it in the softness of some of the siding accessory products.
And it was probably -- it could have been as much as another percentage point of growth that we lost because of weather.
Research Division</strong> And then more specifically on siding do you know what the comp was year-on-year.
I assume that's down.
Did you talk about what the organic number was in siding? Like the siding accessories? Research Division</strong> Correct.
Yes yes that subsector.
So Don he's -- Don has some specific numbers associated with that.
Sure.
So just looking year-over-year our revenue for what would be the siding accessories would be down a couple million for -- from '13 levels.
And then of course we made up for that with the increased sales in products like roofing and trim.
So I know -- it's a little bit confusing because we include trim and roofing in our siding accessories group.
And so it's -- so the products that are like shutters gable vents mounting blocks tools those are the ones that are down like a couple of million dollars.
And we made up for that in increase in trim and roofing in our siding accessories group.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And Kirk I call that that sort of legacy business like an old cap going "Oh I'm dating myself " but that's sort of how I wrap it in my estimation.
But is this a secular change or is this a good correlation to home starts.
I know you talked about the tough comp on new home starts but is the home builder market moving away from vinyl shutters? And how do you think about that question.
This isn't a new phenomenon for siding to be somewhat sideways for you guys.
I don't think that you can reach any conclusions about changes in market share over the near term.
So in the last -- I don't think you can reach a conclusion in the last 12 months or so.
If there is a an increasing loss of share or loss of share in the last 12 months.
If you go back over the last decade there has been -- vinyl has lost share to fiber cement.
And so there has been a change over a long period of time whether that change has reached resolution whether there's a change going on over the last 12 months that's difficult to tell.
You really -- it's difficult to know in the short -- in a short timeframe what factors are impacting demand.
Clearly the reduced number of entry-level homes that were being built and first-home buyers that were entering the market that factor had an impact on vinyl sales.
And so there's a number of factors going on.
And hopefully that's a short-term phenomenon and that the entry homebuyers will come back in the marketplace.
And so it's -- in the short-term I don't think anyone really knows.
Over the last decade there has been some share loss to fiber cement.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
My last question on heavy.
Highway trust fund is that an issue? It certainly seems like it's a solvable question.
Maybe Kirk you're the resident Washington expert maybe you could take the crack at it.
And then also just lastly regional pricing trends you guys did really well there.
And it's just been interesting where you're using strength? So from the of course highway trust fund is going to run out of money.
And the House and Senate are both working on a -- they're working on a short-term patch.
The House has passed a funding patch that goes into late spring of next year.
The Senate is going to take up that language this week.
And it's anticipated that what will come out of the Senate will be something that will match the House's patch.
There are folks trying to change that outcome.
But the most likely result is a patch that goes into late spring.
We haven't seen any particular impact from the impending end -- running out of funding in that -- in the trust fund.
Because everybody believes that the patch is going to be passed to become law and that there will be adequate funding to continue.
So last time there were 11 patches that were passed before Congress finally enacted a 2-year extension of the highway bill.
So we're in that pattern now of going back to passing patches.
And it appears that there will be one for the current situation.
Bill do you want to talk a little bit about the question on regional pricing? Yes John I think we saw increase -- year-over-year increases in pricing across every area of the business seeing some strong pricing along the Gulf Coast in the West as we get into the peak of the construction season in the Upper Midwest.
I think we'll start to see those increases impact there.
Obviously as we've talked about in the past we increase prices at different times throughout the year in different areas of the country.
Typically in the South we typically see them going to effect in January or February.
So we start to see an earlier impact.
And as we get farther north those are typically into the beginning of our third quarter.
So we're starting to see those impacts.
But was with the group last week they're quite optimistic as we see cement begin to float price increases out across the board.
So I think we'll continue to see good positive trends in our ability to raise pricing.
And next we'll hear from John Baugh of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> My first question Kirk was on the guidance.
It sounds like we still have a very wide guidance given there's 1 quarter left.
But sounds like you're coalescing around $135 million as sort of a midpoint of some kind of range is that fair? Well that is the math taking the trend from the June 30 quarter.
That gets you to $135 million number.
I think that we've got some good strengths like in fly ash for example.
We've got volume increases and price increases that are falling through to the bottom line.
And so we are optimistic about the performance of our core segments.
We got a little bit of a -- mostly a timing issue in HCAT.
But the timing affects us on a quarterly basis.
So that's -- I think that we feel very good about being within the range and we're excited about the position going into 2015.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Yes and maybe as a follow-up on that for '15 and HCM in particular I don't want to get out in front of our skis here but it sounds like volumes and pricing of cement are improving which bodes well for '15.
Have there been any discussions -- you mentioned that you were with the group last week on cement pricing specifically any increases floated out there that would begin to impact your fiscal '15 favorably? I think that the general trend is that the cement industry has the increasing costs associated with the EPA rules.
And that's been estimated to be as much as $25 per ton.
And so if they're going to be maintaining margins they're going to need to increase prices over the next couple of years in the range of 7% to 8% to -- 7% to 9% per year in order to just recoup those costs.
In addition to that we're getting to the point where as the you look at the PCA forecast with demand for Portland Cement we're approaching the point of the U.S.
practical capacity.
And so people are going to have to start importing Portland cement.
And that scarcity of supply will allow the cement guys to continue to raise prices.
Bill do you know what the PCA forecasted increase is for their price increases? Or I guess we know the volume increase.
I don't think we know what the...
Yes we see the volume.
They don't publish a price increase.
But I think what would be reasonable would be in the 7% to 9% range.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> In terms of pricing? Yes pricing for Portland cement.
So that turns out to be in the $7 to $8 range.
Yes $6 to $8 we're currently seeing some cement companies floating prices out right now of $6 to $8.
What part of that sticks we'll probably know in the next month or so.
And we've seen some announcements that some of the December January price increases for those that implemented that time or in that $6 to $8 to $9 range too.
So if cement supply tightens we would expect to see a little more of those pricing increases stick.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> And how does that -- I know there's some dilution in between those and what you get on a net price.
How would say if we're looking at Portland Cement in fiscal '15 being up pick a number 7% 8%.
How would that translate to Headwaters? It's comparable to what's going on now not significant changes than where we're at now.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> And if that were the case if we were looking at 4% as pricing and volume's up mid-single digits should we expect a better contribution margin than 40% 45%? And then lastly if I could just throw in HCAT how do we think about modeling HCAT for next year? So if you look at I remember I've talked -- and Bill indicated in his script that what fell through to the bottom line from a topline growth was higher than our typical 45% contribution margin.
It was in the 60% 65% range.
And so if the growth in revenue is tied to price increases then you end up with a higher impact on your adjusted EBITDA of course because you don't have offsetting cost.
So if the June 30 quarter was typical of what we're going to see going forward then we could have the potential of exceeding the 45% contribution margin.
The contribution margin itself is running in that 45% range.
So you -- we would anticipate that at the EBITDA line that we'll have improved margins at the EBITDA line and maybe a contribution based on price increases higher than 45%.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> And then HCAT? HCAT so I think the appropriate modeling approach for HCAT is that if you didn't want to model any upside which I'm not sure I'd recommend modeling upside because it is a noncore asset for us.
I think that the starting point for next year would be how we performed in fiscal 2013.
The upside to that will be if we begin getting new orders from these new customers.
And so if you have a starting point from 2013 performance I think that there's a -- I think we have a fairly good opportunity of starting to generate positive EBITDA in HCAT in 2015.
I don't think it will be material to our financial statements.
And I don't think it will be a material amount.
But I would anticipate that in 2015 we'll have a positive EBITDA contribution from HCAT.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> So just maybe assume for conservative that at least we get the $3 million swing back in '15 versus '14 that we lost? Yes because some of that is timing and some of it -- and we should be able to pick up some revenue from new customers.
And next we'll hear from Seth Yeager of Jefferies.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Can you talk about the most recent acquisitions in the fly ash segment? Considering they're relatively small what sort of multiples are you guys paying currently? And is it safe to say that this bolt-ons are accretive to your overall consolidated free cash flow? Well the answer to the second question is absolutely yes they're accretive to cash flow.
They're accretive to EBITDA to cash flow metrics to earnings per share metrics.
So they're absolutely accretive.
The multiples generally on a post-synergy basis the multiples are in the 5x to 7x range.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay perfect.
That's helpful.
When we look at the end markets for heavy materials what sort of magnitude of demand are you thinking about for your non-res construction and infrastructure exposure within the guidance that you guys have provided? In the non-res area particularly in commercial and institutional we are very oriented towards the Texas market because our block product group is a regional activity and it's -- we've got a little bit into Louisiana but it's almost entirely in Texas.
And what's -- one of the things that's very positive about the Texas economy generally is the demographics requiring additional school construction.
There's been a number of bonds that have been floated and successfully funded.
We're starting to see that the activity in school construction increased.
Because of our market share we have the opportunity to participate in many of those school construction projects.
And we think that 20 -- that it's starting to pick up as we speak.
We think that towards the end of 2014 and into 2015 we'll have very solid topline growth in our block group.
And with that should come a continuing margin expansion.
We had good margin expansion in the June 30 quarter.
We anticipated for 2014 that margins would expand and they have expanded as we've increased -- improved our manufacturing efficiencies reduced trucking expenses and grown our topline.
We think that 2015 will be a better year both topline and from a margin perspective in 2014 because of the commercial and institutional sales.
Fixed Income Research</strong> So is that -- if we think about it on a percentage basis are you sort of bracketing maybe high single-digit is that the right sort of ballpark? Yes.
I think that's -- we think that there are -- we have opportunity for consistent organic growth with what we've experienced in 2013.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay great.
And then just last one for me within building products can you maybe discuss the higher resin cost that you're seeing out there and how that compares to pricing in both the siding and composite decking bases? And what are you seeing from competitors in terms of pricing as well? I think we have seen some PVC and polypropylene price increases.
And although the biggest impact on our margin in EBITDA margin in light building products was because of sales mix not because of cost increases we have seen cost increases.
And we are adjusting to that reality.
Dave why don't you go ahead and add some color from your perspective as you've seen the polypropylene and PVC price movements? Sure.
We've continued to see more increases go on as the year has gone on.
And we're watching it very closely up to this point.
Part of your question was what have we seen in the market.
We have not seen any movement in the market from competitors on pricing.
But we are -- we continue to see increases and as Kirk said they're primarily on polypropylene and on PVC.
And we're going to watch it.
And if we need to act accordingly we certainly will do so.
And our final question is from Dan Mannes of Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of quick follow-ups first on the heavy construction materials on the and service side.
Bill can you talk a little bit maybe about what rolled off this quarter? What your visibility is on replacing it? And maybe a longer-term view on the service business? Yes Dan.
I -- we did have some longer-term service contracts and I think a large piece of that year-over-year variance also came from some of the wet weather we experienced where some of the typical project-by-project specific activities were delayed.
We have picked up a few new long-term service contracts in the quarter that we ought to start to see some contribution from.
And we still see a fairly active bid opportunity out there.
And I think as the EPA finally publishes new disposal guidelines that we will see an increase in the uptick for more site service opportunities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then real quickly for Kirk on the HCAT business.
Obviously some lumpiness and this has always been a business where it's taken always a little bit more time than originally expected to get new customers.
But given what's going on right now any change to your long-term schedule in terms of potentially divesting this business? Or is still kind of in the same pace it was before? Yes and I think that the pace is that towards the end of 2015 we think that we should be in a position depending on -- we want to get some additional licenses signed in 2015.
There's some very large facilities that are going to come online in 2016 timeframe.
And the thought is that if we add some of these new customers and we get that we're already doing these trials at and if we are able to sign a couple of license agreements with those large new facilities then that would be a point in time where we could take HCAT to market.
And hopefully that could come towards the end of 2015.
It may come a little bit later because I do think entering into some of those new license agreements will add quite a bit of value.
But that's a general kind of timeframe.
So with that we will go ahead and conclude the call.
We like to thank you all for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the Headwaters Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year End 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Tricia Ross of Financial Profiles.
Please go ahead.
Hello and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for the Headwaters Incorporated Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year End 2014 Conference Call.
There is a slide presentation that accompanies today's conference call.
It can be found on the webcast link at the Headwaters Incorporated website under Events and Presentations.
Please go there to follow along with the slides and the webcast if you so choose.
If you do have any issues please feel free to e-mail me at tross@finprofiles.com and I can also e-mail you a PDF copy.
With that I would now like to turn the call over to Sharon Madden Vice President and Head of Investor Relations at Headwaters Incorporated.
Thank you Tricia.
Good morning and thank you for joining us as we report Headwaters fourth quarter and fiscal 2014 year-end results.
Kirk Benson Headwaters' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Don Newman Headwaters' Chief Financial Officer will be conducting this morning's call.
In an effort to streamline our call we have condensed our slide deck and the management presentations.
And for now we will no longer include Headwaters' rotating business unit leaders.
We are trying this new format in order to make our calls more efficient and will allow you the call participants more time for Q&amp;A.
While listening to today's call please remember that certain statements made during the call including statements that are related to our expected future business and financial performance may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 both as amended.
Forward-looking statements by their very nature address matters that are to different degrees uncertain.
These uncertainties are described in more detail in Headwaters' annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
You can find Headwaters' annual report on Form 10-K quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings that are readily available from the SEC's website from Headwaters' website or directly from the company.
I'll now turn the call over to Kirk Benson.
Kirk? Thank you Sharon.
As you know Headwaters is a market-leading building products company with top quartile performance and exposure to end markets with significant growth opportunity.
2014 results including a very strong fourth quarter reflect that superior performance.
We see further growth opportunities in 2015 as fly ash tailwind strengthened and housing-related end markets continued their recovery.
Turning to Slide 3.
Fiscal year 2014 was very positive for Headwaters and every meaningful metric trended up revenue up 13% gross margin up 17% operating income up 23% and adjusted EBITDA up 19%.
Highlights for the year included strong fly ash pricing and drop through improved fly ash volumes strong improvements in our block and stone groups adjusted EBITDA.
We developed a leading position in 3 niche roofing product categories.
And we grew our trimboard market share by expanding distribution consistent with our core customer strategy.
We completed 4 bolt-on acquisitions.
Risk was minimal because of the close adjacency to our existing business operations allowing an easy low-risk integration.
Each transaction is positively contributing to the top and bottom line and at a level significantly in excess of our weighted average cost of capital which bodes well for long-term value creation.
Even though we borrowed $150 million of incremental debt to help fund the acquisitions our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio declined during the year.
Based on the positive momentum built in 2014 and our view of continued improvement in our end markets we are initiating guidance in the $150 million to $165 million of adjusted EBITDA.
Don will talk more about the guidance range in his portion of the call.
Now turning to Slide 4.
You can see revenues from our Light Building Products segment for the fiscal year increased by $78 million to $472 million an increase of 20% over last year.
Revenues increased 8% organically for the year.
We performed well in our end markets as we continue to offer best-in-class products meeting growth in customer demand.
Single-family housing starts our second largest end market grew 5% during our fiscal year.
Our performance obviously outpaced the end markets as we increased market share.
In 2015 we continue to be optimistic about our performance compared to the market.
We have exposure in commercial and institutional end markets mainly driven by our block product group.
Block has a majority of the sales in Texas which has been one of the fastest-growing state economies in the country.
We are seeing no negative impact from lower oil prices but rather we are benefiting from lower transportation costs as diesel prices have dropped.
Due to Texas' growing population new school builds and commercial projects should continue to be robust.
Growth in 2014 residential repair and remodel was mixed and varied by region.
We are anticipating an improved market in 2015.
We were pleased to add to our niche roofing products during 2014.
The acquired product category fit our model of high-margin niche products with good market share.
Our bolt-on acquisitions were accretive to cash flow and earnings.
We intend to continue to look for future acquisitions that meet this focused strategy.
The increase in Light Building Products 2014 revenues led to a 21% improvement in adjusted EBITDA for the year improving from $72.9 million in 2013 to $88.1 million in 2014.
In October light building products sales were positive year-over-year and we look forward to strong performance in 2015 from each of our product groups.
On Slide 5 you can see that our coal combustion products group completed the year with revenue of $309 million compared to revenue of $293 million for 2013 a 5% year-over-year increase.
Headwaters provides site services to many of its utility plants.
Site service revenue for 2014 was down 6% on a year-over-year basis as we completed work projects.
We replaced the site service revenue with increased sales of fly ash product resulting in margin improvements for the year.
Site service revenue was 25% of our overall revenue for the year compared to 29% last year.
In 2015 we expect service revenue will trend lower as a lower percentage of overall revenue as our fly ash sales increase.
In 2014 we experienced an increase in fly ash volume and pricing as tailwinds strengthened.
The September 2014 quarter product revenue increased 11% year-over-year due to both the increase in tons shipped and price.
Adjusted EBITDA for 2014 increased 18% year-over-year to $67 million compared to $57 million in 2013.
We finished the year with an adjusted EBITDA margin of 21.6% an increase of 230 basis points year-over-year.
We are seeing $8 to $12 per ton cement price increases being communicated to the market.
In most markets these increases are set to go into effect by the end of the first quarter of calendar 2015.
These increases are being driven by additional cost due to new environmental regulations and current demand approaching capacity in certain markets.
While the exact amount of the cement price increases that will ultimately stick is uncertain it is a positive signal for fly ash pricing.
Weather in October was relatively mild and our fly ash shipments increased compared to last year.
Demand for fly ash and pricing dynamics in key markets are favorable and we anticipate 2015 to be a record year with adjusted EBITDA exceeding our prior peak.
I would now like to turn the time over to Don to continue the presentation.
Thank you Kirk.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
My comments today will be directed to the slide deck as well as the press release and I'll start with Slide 6.
Q4 was a strong finish to a very good fiscal 2014.
We finished the quarter with $246 million in revenue and adjusted EBITDA of $51 million.
It was the 13th consecutive quarter of year-over-year revenue and adjusted EBITDA growth for the company.
Revenue increased 14% year-over-year including 15% growth in our core Light Building Products and Heavy Construction Material segments.
$51 million in adjusted EBITDA represents a 25% increase over the same period last year.
Both our legacy businesses and acquisitions drove our top line and bottom line growth as the 14% growth in revenue included 10% from acquisitions and 5% growth in our core legacy Light Building Products and Heavy Construction Materials segment.
We closed the fiscal year with $153 million in cash and $213 million of liquidity.
Slide 7 shows more detail on the Q4 results.
The 14% increase in revenue led to gross profit increases of 22% year-over-year and gross margin expanding more than 200 basis points.
Light Building Products sales increased 26% in the fourth quarter including 9% from organic growth.
Q4 was the best quarter from a year -- best quarter of the year from a year-over-year sales growth standpoint for our siding group and stone and block finished the year well -- strong as well.
Light building products adjusted EBITDA grew 37% year-over-year and its adjusted EBITDA margins expanded more than 170 basis points over Q4 of 2013 with margin expansion in all major product groups.
Heavy construction materials sales grew year-over-year as demand for fly ash remained strong.
In HCM adjusted EBITDA margins at 26% for the quarter expanded more than 100 basis points -- 180 basis points rather year-over-year.
The result was a consolidated adjusted EBITDA margin of 20.6% in Q4 up more than 160 basis points from Q4 2013.
Let's move to Slide 8.
Slide 8 shows the full fiscal year results.
We had 13% growth in revenue including 14% growth in our core light building products and heavy construction materials segments of which 6% was organic.
The 25% growth in Q4 adjusted EBITDA helped drive a 19% increase in adjusted EBITDA for the full fiscal year.
Operating income increased 23% over fiscal 2013 levels as revenue growth and strong earnings more than offset acquisition-related costs and marketing investment.
Net income was $15.3 million in fiscal 2014 an increase of 115% above fiscal 2013.
And adjusted EPS was $0.70 per share for fiscal 2014 up 30% from fiscal 2013 levels.
We had good performance from a cash standpoint as well.
Cash flow from operations was approximately $77 million excluding a $16 million settlement related to a legal dispute from years ago.
The $77 million represents a 30% increase in cash flow from operations year-over-year.
Let's move to Slide 9.
We finished fiscal 2014 with a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 3.2x down from 3.8x at the end of the June quarter and down from 3.3x at the end of fiscal 2013.
As you know we issued $150 million of new unsecured notes last December largely to fund acquisitions and spent about $100 million of those proceeds on 4 transactions.
Despite the additional debt we were able to reduce our net leverage from 3.3x to 3.2x year-over-year and we did that by increasing our adjusted EBITDA and effectively managing cash and working capital.
Now let's move to Slide 10 and talk about 2015 guidance.
We're carrying positive momentum into 2015.
We're initiating guidance for 2015 adjusted EBITDA to be in the range of $150 million to $165 million which represents growth of between 9% and 20% over 2014 levels.
Key drivers to our 2015 performance include continuing recovery in the residential housing and R&amp;R end markets as well as demand for fly ash and favorable pricing dynamics for our high-quality ash.
Our guidance assumes growth in single-family starts in the range of 10% to 15% R&amp;R growth in the low single digits percentage growth for fly ash volumes in the high-single digits and net ash price increases in the 3% to 4% range.
Cost inflation in inputs such as PVC polypropylene cement aggregates and transportation could also impact our 2015 performance.
We saw our adjusted EBITDA margins expand 90 basis points to 17.4% in fiscal 2014 and we would expect modest expansion in margins in 2015 as well.
CapEx is expected to be in the range of $40 million.
Cash interest expense is expected to be approximately $47 million and book interest expense to be approximately $49 million in 2015.
We anticipate cash taxes in 2015 to be approximately $4 million largely due to state taxes.
At the midpoint of our guidance we expect to generate net cash flow in the range of $50 million after paying CapEx interest taxes and working capital investment.
Now I'll turn the call back over to the operator to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question is from Rob Hansen of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> First question I wanted to ask you about was October.
I know you touched upon it a little bit on the Heavy Construction Materials side.
But how did this look kind of more broadly on the Light Building Products side? And what are you seeing from distributors and whatnot? We are very pleased with the October sales numbers.
So we saw strength in both the heavy side and the light side of the business.
So we feel very good about going into 2015 and October is a very critical month for the quarter.
And we feel real good about top line on both sides of the business.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then also I wanted to ask about pricing both on Heavy Construction Materials and Light Building Products.
A lot of the -- like you mentioned a lot of the cement companies have pretty robust increases.
I think some of them are going to announce in terms of 2 times per year now.
If that were to happen would you follow suit and do 2 price increases on the heavy side? And then what is the kind of outlook on pricing for light building products? I think I saw some announced price increases of 4% to 6% range somewhere around there.
So what is your outlook there? On the heavy side we are beginning to contemplate the -- raising prices 2 times.
So if that occurs with Portland cement pricing then that's something that we are beginning to consider following that lead.
And so that's something that I think that we can look forward to as well as what happens with Portland cement pricing.
On the light side we are anticipating selected price increases on the light side of our business.
So we've gotten price increases in block and I think that the opportunity to continue to look at further price increases there is quite real.
We're looking at price increases in our siding group and selected price increases in our stone group.
So we think that we will get some pricing leverage in 2015 on the light side of our business.
Our next question is from Al Kaschalk of Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to focus first on light building products.
It looks like there were some additional benefit from incremental distribution points.
And I don't know if you have the information available we can follow up later but do you have what was -- what helped you in the current quarter or year from the additional distribution points? Sure.
We had -- one of our key elements of our strategy is to place additional products in the hands of our core customers.
So one of the things that was very positive during the year was the acquisition of our trim board product line.
Approximately 87% of the revenue at the point in time when we acquired that product line was in New England.
And if you look at Principia or other national studies of trimboard products the sales are more evenly distributed across the country.
We felt strongly that we could take that product line and place it in the hands of some of our core 2-step distributors in other parts of the country.
That is playing out as we envisioned it would.
And so it's not that we've necessarily added entirely new distributors but rather that we're putting new products into the hands of our existing distribution.
And so you'll see an increase in revenue because of that strategy.
I think there's opportunities in the siding group and specialty siding.
There's opportunities in stone.
We're doing exactly that same thing across light building products area of our business placing additional products in the hands of our core customers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that should continue -- that tailwind should help you in fiscal '15 as well I would imagine.
Yes absolutely.
That's a key part of our strategy and we will be introducing through our R&amp;D efforts new products.
And we will be looking for additional M&amp;A opportunities that are add-ons to what we're currently doing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a follow up or second part.
If you could touch on -- it doesn't sound like you're seeing a lot of cost inflation in LBP.
Maybe you can at some point touch on that? But my other question I was hoping you could give an update on the EPA ruling that's forthcoming here on December 19 A if there's any change in your body language on expectations? And what do we anticipate to come of that December 19 date? I would like to comment on the cost inflation because one of the things that we're quite happy with and it's an important part of Headwaters culture is our ability to continually improve performance and drive efficiencies.
And even though we are seeing cost inflation we're seeing raw material cost go up we're seeing labor cost go up but what we're also seeing is improved efficiencies.
And it's really an important part of what we try to do is to become a better company each year by becoming more efficient and driving cost out of the system.
So the reason that you don't see a lot of cost inflation is because we are improving the performance of the business and that offsets a lot of the cost -- the underlying cost inflation.
Relative to the EPA the office of -- the OMB Office of Management and Budget reported that they had received from the EPA the proposed final regulations.
So what happens is that the EPA competes regulations it gets reviewed by many federal government departments.
After those reviews are completed the final step in finalizing the regulations is OMB review.
So they announced publicly that they have started that final review.
The court-imposed deadline is December 19.
Typically an OMB review takes longer than the time allocated between now and December 19.
So it is possible that that deadline may be missed.
But our understanding is the OMB is making every effort to assist the EPA in meeting that December 19 deadline.
And we and everyone that we communicate with would be shocked if the outcome of those final regulations is anything other than Subtitle D modifications.
Our next question is from Chip Moore of Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> I guess I just wanted to follow up a little on that last question on inflation.
I think you talked about at least for the block business lower transport costs starting to see those with oil coming down.
How are you thinking about next year? Is that a potential tailwind what have you baked in for the outlook? Yes.
I think that we will continue to see improvements in our cost structure that will offset or more than offset the -- any cost increases.
And so -- Don you wanted to add something? Sure.
When you're thinking about our 2015 guidance we're expecting generally is something in the range of 3% to 5% inflation in our raw material inputs and transportation.
But as Kirk pointed out we have a culture that very much is focused on continuous improvement.
So we would expect to be generating upward of $10 million of cost savings opportunities that help offset some of that inflation.
In terms of our fixed cost structure I would expect inflation apart from the continuous improvement savings that I talked about of something in the 3% to 4% range for example.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then I guess Don just for you.
Can you talk a little bit about excess capital? What's the potential for accretive deals here? You've still got about $50 million left and you're talking free cash flow of $50 million next year.
Walk us through that.
Yes exactly.
I would say that at this point we ended the year with a very solid cash and liquidity position.
We would expect to use about $50 million of cash just to run the business.
And we've got about $50 million of debt that will be maturing in early 2016.
So that will use about $50 million of capital available for investment at this point.
And we would expect to generate good cash flow next year.
We'll continue to look for bolt-on opportunities.
We've had good success with those through 20 -- the deal that we did in 2012 -- or 2013 rather and then also the deals that we did in 2014.
So I can see that we would continue to look for similar opportunities.
And we expect that those opportunities will be there and close to our core business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last maybe you can just touch on the Roof Tile acquisition a little update on the integration there and how that's progressing? Yes.
So we have -- we now have 3 roofing niche products in our portfolio our composite roofing our concrete tile and our stone coated metal.
The integration of those business opportunities has been very smooth.
We are bringing to the table now a very focused management team around these niche roofing products.
And the data that we're looking at indicates that those niche roofing products should grow at a rate faster than commodity asphalt roofing.
And so the categories are projected to take market share.
And we feel we are in a leading position in the geographies and those niches in which we compete.
So it is progressing according to plan and I think it presents us with a good opportunity to continue to improve our margins and top line growth.
Our next question is from Philip Volpicelli of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> My first question is with regard to the fly ash price guidance up 3% to 4%.
Considering what we're seeing in cement pricing and the potential for that capacity utilization to reach 100% is that conservative? Or is there something that I'm not thinking about in terms of maybe regional where you think you'll get prices and in other regions where you might not be able to get prices on fly ash? One thing that's really important to remember when you consider our fly ash price increase guidance is that we have a variable component a variable cost component to price increases.
So what we're trying to do is give guidance as to the net price increase because that's the amount that will impact our EBITDA free cash flow and operating income.
So because of the -- our long-term exclusive contracts that we have with utilities the way that those contracts is structured we're sharing some of the price increase.
And so our price increase is going to be -- our price increases is going to be in the range that you would expect.
But what we're trying to communicate is a net number not a gross number.
Otherwise it becomes confusing because people expect that price increase to fall through to your EBITDA.
Research Division</strong> And then Kirk could you give us an update on the HCAT trials that are going on? I believe there's a couple of new refineries that were trying the product.
Where do they stand and how do they feel so far? Well generally speaking I think that we're going to end up with some new customers in 2015.
It is -- it takes a very long time for refineries to make the decision to change some of the input into these ebullated-bed reactors.
There is no question but what HCAT is a proven commercial technology and is proven to create economic benefits to the refineries.
We've had HCAT in our Neste customer for 3 or 4 years.
It's part of their standard operating procedures now.
And we feel quite comfortable that we're going to pick up some new customers in 2015 because of the trials that have been going on in 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just have you seen any new entrants on the fly ash aside considering the dynamics expected in the next few year? No.
There's -- it's very stable because you have to have these long-term supply agreements.
Those do not change hands very frequently at all.
That leads to a very stable competitive environment.
One thing I would add to that as well is we haven't really seen any significant change in import activity of fly ash into the U.S.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question is from Dan Mannes of Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Quick follow-up question on Heavy Construction Materials.
You mentioned obviously site services has been ramping down a little bit as some old contracts have rolled off.
When you look to the EPA rule you look to what's going on in North Carolina how do you view the opportunity set there as you look forward maybe not just to '15 but a little bit longer-term? The opportunity is positive.
One of the things that's happened because of the uncertainty that has been -- under which the market has been working for the last several years because of the EPA rules were unknown that some of the site service work declined.
And so when these rules get set and people understand the environment we anticipate that the service work will increase.
And so we think that the -- we think the outlook is generally positive.
LLC Research Division</strong> But not so much for '15 given your previous comments? Well I think -- yes.
I mean I think it takes a while for people to adjust.
And so I think that the overall outlook is going to end up being positive.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up question more on the product side.
We're getting closer and closer to the compliance date for the Mercury and Air Toxics Standard or MATS.
We know that obviously activated carbon is going to be a major product for utilities to meet that rule.
Any updated thoughts as it relates to impact to ash quality? Or is that maybe something that's pending and we'll see a little bit more as we move into next year? One of the things that we feel very good about is a new process that we have developed it's called RestoreAir.
And what we are able to do with our RestoreAir technology is apply it to the fly ash that has a high carbon content.
And after application of our RestoreAir technology that high carbon content fly ash can be used.
And so we currently have it in 3 or 4 locations operationally.
And we anticipate that that RestoreAir technology will end up being in 15 to 20 locations over the next 18 to 24 months.
So we don't think that the incremental use of activated carbon is going to have a negative impact on our fly ash sales.
LLC Research Division</strong> If I can just follow up there.
When you said 3 to 4 locations to 15 to 20 are those sites where you're currently providing marketing? And is this a proprietary enough product that it might actually help you gain share were there to be more bidding opportunities for other ash sources? It's in a mix of locations some existing locations and some new locations.
And yes we think that it will assist us in market share considerations.
Our next question is from Charlie Smith of Fort Pitt Capital.
Inc.</strong> A couple of questions on the stone business.
Your outdoor and ancillary sales are they yet a material portion of your overall stone sales? And how fast are they growing? They are not yet a material part of our revenue.
The percent -- on a percentage growth basis they're growing very rapidly because they're starting off a very low base.
We think that there's a significant opportunity for those sales to become a material element.
Inc.</strong> As far as overall market share between stone veneer and brick do you have any data in terms of what the trends are there? I know historically veneer has been gaining.
Do you have any sort of recent market data there? The most recent data that we have is a little bit dated and it is consistent with your impression that stone and a variety of products actually are taking some share from brick.
I think those trends are continuing.
And our data is a little bit dated in that regard.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And finally historically there had been some issues in terms of proper installation and quality in terms of leakage on veneer.
Have those -- I occasionally run into contractors that'll talk about that.
Do you believe that that impression is gradually going away? One of the things that we try to be very careful is that the application of the materials is done appropriately.
And if it's done appropriately there is no issue.
And so I think as folks get more and more accustomed to the product you end up seeing a trend of fewer and fewer issues.
But it has to do with the installation not with the product.
Inc.</strong> Obviously you've been making efforts to instruct and inform the masonry community out there on the proper methods of installation.
Absolutely.
Our next question is a follow-up from Rob Hansen of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to just to follow up on acquisitions.
I just wanted to see first are -- is any of the $50 million that you have earmarked for acquisitions is that baked into your guidance at all? And second you were I think last year at the Analyst Day you were very much -- you talked about roofing and that's where you wanted to go in terms of an adjacent product line.
So I guess are you kind of -- are you -- what is the kind of next piece of adjacent product line that you'd be looking for? Are you -- is it more roofing or geographic expansion? Or how do you kind of look at the acquisitions kind of a little more in-depth? Rob this is Don.
I'll take the first part of the question and then Kirk will cover the second.
In terms of the $50 million of capital that might be used for acquisition activity our 2015 guidance does not include any assumed additional acquisitions to the portfolio.
So it reflects only the acquisitions done through 09/30/14.
And from a strategic perspective we are focused on our core customer sets.
So the kinds of products that we are interested in acquiring would be those products that are currently purchased by our core customer sets.
So 1-step distributors 2-step distributors masonry distribution direct contractors relative to our block product group are ready mix or utilities in the ash side.
So those -- that basically is how we're defining the products that we are interested in.
So roofing would be an area that we are interesting in but so would natural thin stone for example because those products end up going to the same distribution channels.
We would be able to leverage our sales and marketing part of our business.
And so we're basically trying to leverage those existing customer sets.
There appears to be no further questions.
I will now turn the call back over to Sharon Madden at Headwaters for any closing remarks.
Thank you very much for joining the call.
We'll go ahead and end it now.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Headwaters First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Tricia Ross with Financial Profiles.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
And thank you for joining us for the Headwaters Incorporated first quarter fiscal year 2015 conference call.
There is a slide accompanying today's presentation.
That can be found on the webcast link at the Headwaters Incorporated Web site under Events and Presentations tab.
Please go there to follow along with the slides.
If you have any issues please feel free to e-mail me at tross@finprofiles.com and I can also email you a PDF copy.
With that I would now like to turn the call over to Sharon Madden Head of Investor Relations at Headwaters Incorporated.
Thank you Tricia.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us as we report Headwaters fiscal 2015 Q1 results.
This morning call will be led by Kirk Benson Headwaters' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Don Newman Headwaters' Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started on this morning's call I would like to remind everyone that Headwaters is sponsoring its Annual Investor Day Conference in New York City on March 6th at the New York Palace Hotel.
The meeting will begin at 8:00 am and adjourn at around 10:30 am.
For additional information regarding the conference please contact myself or Tricia Ross at the emails provided at the top of today's press release.
While listening to the call today please remember that certain statements made during the call including statements relating to our expected future business and financial performance may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 both as amended.
Forward-looking statements by their very nature address matters that are to different degrees uncertain.
These uncertainties are described in more detail in Headwaters' annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
You can find Headwaters' annual report on Form 10-K quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings that are readily available from the SEC's Web site from Headwaters' Web site or directly from the company.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Kirk Benson.
Kirk? Thank you Sharon.
So beginning on Slide 3 we had an excellent first quarter with over 20% revenue growth and improvement in just about every metric.
The positive performance was widely distributed across both of our core segments and all of our building product categories.
Highlights for the quarter include strong high single-digit organic growth on a consolidated basis and double-digit growth in our fly ash segment.
The strongest volume increase in fly ash in over 10 years and a positive pricing environment.
All building product categories produced improved results both in volume and select pricing.
Revenue increased 21% adjusted EBITDA 39% and adjusted EPS by 143%.
Our 9% organic revenue growth was very positive and exceeded our expectations for the quarter.
But we also had very positive contributions from our bolt-on acquisition due to a number of factors including our strong first quarter performance.
We have increased the low-end of our guidance range by $5 million so that new range is $155 million to $165 million.
Now turning to Slide 4.
On Slide 4 you can see revenues from our building products segment for the first quarter increased by $24.5 million to $117.5 million an increase of 26% over last year's first quarter.
Revenues increased 8% organically.
All of our product groups experienced positive revenue growth in the quarter as the economy continue to grow and weather was somewhat better than last year.
We feel well-positioned for growth as our end markets improve because we offer best in class products that have the capacity to meet growing customer demand.
We saw signs of residential repair and remodel growth in the first quarter.
Products with major exposure to repair and remodel enjoyed mid-single digit organic growth.
For the first time in the up cycle we saw improvement throughout the quarter which bodes well for 2015 in this end market.
We added to our niche roofing products during 2014 that category continues to contribute to revenue growth and adjusted EBITDA.
The acquisitions fit our model of high margin niche products with good market share.
We continue to look for future acquisitions that meet this focused strategy.
The increase in building product revenues led to a 34% improvement of adjusted EBITDA for the quarter improving from $15.4 million last year to $20.6 million this quarter.
Now turning to Slide 5.
In our construction material segment volume increased at the fastest rate in a decade and we experienced strong demand and stable supply.
Combined with average net pricing improvements of approximately 3% product revenue was up 27% compared to 2014.
Growth resulted from a combination of good supply momentum from the summer construction season flowing into the quarter and relatively improved weather.
The significant increase in volume was driven by increases along the Gulf Coast and the Eastern part of the United States.
During the quarter we implemented price increases in multiple-market and believe that the upward pricing trends are continuing.
Traditionally we have implemented price increases in the March quarter but this year we have implemented some increases in several markets during the December quarter and anticipate implementing additional price increases during the March and June 2015 quarters.
We completed a number of short-term incremental service projects in 2014 so service revenue for 2015 was down year-over-year.
Although service projects generally have lower margins on products sales short-term service projects had existing site take advantage of fixed cost already in place and generally have high EBITDA margins because of the fixed cost leverage.
Site service revenue was 23% of our overall revenue for the December 2014 quarter compared to – for the December 2015 quarter compared to 25% for fiscal year 2014.
In 2015 we expect service revenue will continue to be a lower percentage of overall revenue because our ash sales are projected to increase.
Gross profit in the segment for the December 2014 quarter increased 30% year-over-year to $21.9 million compared to $16.8 million for the December 2013 quarter.
Gross margin increased 340 basis points year-over-year.
Adjusted EBITDA for the December 2014 quarter – for the 2015 quarter increased 30% to $17.3 million compared to $13.3 million for the December 2014 quarter.
Operating leverage combined with our ongoing continuous improvement initiatives is evident as revenue growth of 14% resulted in adjusted EBITDA growth of 30%.
Our adjusted EBITDA margin increased 270 basis points over 2014 and positions us for overall 2015 margin expansion.
Meeting its December 19 2014 court order deadline EPA announced a Subtitle D non-hazardous final rule.
Beneficial use is specifically exempt from regulation and is supported by the EPA.
The EPA rule provides regulatory certainty that will allow us to continue to grow the beneficial use of fly ash.
We also anticipate that the upgraded standards for ash disposal under requisite Subtitle D will provide new opportunities for our Site Services group.
The PCA is forecasting a 8% year-over-year increase in cement consumption.
We have increased our winter storage capabilities in several parts of the country and have began to inventory fly ash for used during the construction season.
We are also continuing to install our restore air technology at plants that are injecting activated carbon.
This technology mitigates the negative impact that activated carbon has on fly ash quality.
This additional storage and the installation of these restored air units should result in an improved supply outlook for us as we begin to move into the 2015 construction season later this spring.
I'd now like to turn the time over to Don for our financial review.
Thank you Kirk.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
I will start with Slide 6.
We had a great start to the year not only did the top-line grow by more than 20% but we saw margin expansion and generated more than $7 million of net income.
The last time we posted a positive net income in our fiscal Q1 typically one of our slower quarters due to the seasonality was seven years ago in fiscal 2008.
This was also the 14th consecutive quarter of positive year-over-year revenue and adjusted EBITDA growth.
There are many positives in the quarter which reflected solid broad-based performance with growth across the business.
We finished the quarter with $200 million in revenue and adjusted EBITDA of $34 million a 39% year-over-year increase in EBITDA.
Both our legacy businesses and acquisitions drove our top and bottom-line performance as the 21% growth in revenue included 9% of organic growth and 12% growth from acquisitions.
Adjusted earnings per share is a measure that appears to be gaining use in the financial markets as a data point of company performance.
Like adjusted EBITDA adjusted EPS can be helpful in looking past the impact of non-routine items to measure underlying financial performance.
We began providing adjusted EPS in fiscal 2013 an expectation that the metric would be helpful to our investors which has been confirmed from feedback that we received.
Our adjusted earnings per share this quarter increased 143% year-over-year to $0.17 per share.
On a trialing 12 months basis revenue was $825 million and adjusted EBITDA was $147 million a 17.8% adjusted EBITDA margin for the trailing 12 months.
That 17.8% margin is just 10 basis point short of our 2006 peak margins for the ongoing business when we generated $860 million of revenue.
Let's move to Slide 7 for a closer look at the quarter.
The 21% top-line growth in the quarter along with cost reductions drove profit and margin expansion down the income statement.
Gross profit increased 36% year-over-year and gross margins expanded 320 basis points a reflection of the strong operating leverage in the business.
Operating income at $19 million grew 153% year-over-year and operating margins expanded 500 basis points.
Net income grew $8.5 million from a net loss of $1.4 million in Q1 2014 to a net income of $7.1 million.
We ended the quarter with $163 million of pretax NOLs and $25 million of tax credits that will shelter significant future income from cash taxes.
Let's move to Slide 8 I'm pleased that we continue to make progress reducing our net leverage through strong financial performance and cash generation.
We finished the quarter with a net debt to adjusted EBTIDA ratio of 3.0 down from 3.2x at the end of fiscal 2014.
While our net debt ratio can fluctuate from period-to-period for a number of reasons including investing in bolt-on acquisitions we are pleased with the trend in our net leverage and we will continue to focus on strong cash generation.
I would also note that the recent debt upgrades from Moody's and S&amp;P reflecting the continued strengthening of our balance sheet and our financial performance.
Now let's move to Slide 9 and take a closer look at the 2015 guidance.
We talk a quite a bit about our 2015 guidance in November so I won't take time away from Q&amp;A to repeat generally how we think about our end markets in 2015.
While our thoughts on end market growth remains similar to what we shared in November we were encouraged by the broad-based strength in our business in Q1 enough that we are updating our 2015 adjusted EBITDA guidance range to $155 million to $165 million.
The updated range represents growth of between 12% and 20% over 2014 levels.
With that I will turn the call back over to the operator to take questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Rob Hansen with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
That was a good quarter and I just wanted to ask about the fly ash kind of volume gains you have seen so are the gains that you are seeing being driven just by higher cement volumes or are you actually starting to see real kind of pick-up in the replacement rate and kind of related to that where you seeing some cement shortages? Of course we don't have the cement volumes for the entire quarter.
But our volume went up 24% so more likely than not our volume went up in the quarter at a faster rate than cement volumes.
And this implies that or could imply that we have gained some market share or it could imply that the substitution rates has changed somewhat.
So we are anticipating that the substitution rate will go up as the cement starts to be impacted by the lack of production capacity in the United States and demand continues to increase.
But more likely than not the biggest impact in the quarter was from changes in market share and to maybe a less degree an increase in substitution rate.
Okay great.
And you mentioned increasing the storage how much did you increase the storage over the past – I guess in your most recent quarter here? Most the changes in storage capacity will be at smaller site so I typical site maybe 10 to 15 000 tons.
And so our goal is to have multiple sites with that kind of a smaller storage capacity.
So hopefully we will get – we will continue to increase that number and get that number to where it is a material amount of incremental storage.
And that's not going to add any I guess additional CapEx that's all baked in correct? Yes.
We don't anticipate significant CapEx or even any material CapEx number associated with an incremental storage.
Okay.
And one last one here.
Just wanted to get your view on that kind of trends in January in both sides of the business? As you get into the winter months and winter becomes more severe it's more difficult to pick out a trend.
We are comfortable that the increase in fly ash should continue throughout the remaining nine months of the year.
So we feel pretty good about that.
The repair and remodel trend during the quarter was positive throughout the quarter.
And so we don't have any indications of that trend should change but we are in the winter and so it's more difficult to pick out a trend.
But by and large I think that we were – we feel very positive about the quarter and those trends continuing into the rest of 2015.
All right.
Got it.
Thank you guys.
The next question comes from Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Kirk.
Good morning Don.
Good morning.
I wanted to try and get a little deeper on the light building product site organic growth was about 8% to 9% in the quarter.
You cited some strength in R&amp;R could you maybe add a little color it appears that there is some either recovery in certain markets certain product categories as there was not much in a way of weather contributions.
So I guess the question is where are you seeing above plan trend and can you confirm that there really was no quote catch up or go forward from weather in the quarter in that particular segment? I don't think that we had any pull forward or any catch up as far as the revenue is concerned.
So it was a pretty straight up quarter from that perspective.
We have in our trim product we have expanded a distribution that was the original strategy it was concentrated with about 87% of revenue from the – in the New England region.
We have expanded that distribution now throughout the middle part of the country and we got some opportunities to move that distribution west.
So we are seeing an up tick in trim sales.
Our other products – legacy products that have repair and remodel performed better in this quarter than in any quarter in the up cycle.
So this mid singles growth was very positive for us.
And again we don't see – we didn't see any indication that that trend would be changed as we go into the rest of 2015.
So we had some – we had upside there.
And our products that have exposure to new residential instruction they performed double-digit growth.
And so this quarter was very broad-based again with all product categories performing very well.
It's helpful.
In terms of what the acquisitions that have been folded in have you seen any change in geographic dispersion on product sales or where you may have benefited from more on a south or particular in the Midwest as it relates particular to this quarter I guess? I mean the easiest example is the one that I gave which is the trim product.
We have clearly moved out of the New England area on growing that product with our two-step distribution across the country.
And the ultimate goal there is to have national distribution of that product.
So that's a clear example of a change in geography.
I think that we have had the introduction of the roofing products we have a national distribution model to our composite roofing and floor – our stone coated roofing products.
And so we are seeing a broad based sales not particularly oriented to any geography.
We did pick up some additional distribution in the west and I think that was helpful.
But by and large I think that's clearly a – we are getting some national growth in those roofing products.
California has been good from a stone perspective we have had some growth in the Midwest and East in our stone products primarily related to new residential construction.
So it's pretty broad-based across the company and across the country.
Okay.
Finally if I may – to the extent that you can tease out or siphon out for us the cost environment that's underway here and in particular what I'm referring to is transportation or diesel cost.
And secondly any input raw cost because if I'm not mistaken could I think that two businesses act a little bit differently in terms of either surcharges or passthroughs which are generally part of HCM segment and maybe somewhat different structure within light building product? So because generically could you help us understand maybe over the next 6 to 12 months what you are anticipating in terms of either – and in terms of the cost environment for the company.
Thank you.
Al this is Don.
I'm going to – I will take that question.
First of all it would be helpful for you to have just the metrics around raw materials and the quantities that we use and I will let you draw some conclusions in terms of what might happen as prices for these raw materials potentially go down.
We have got a couple of key resin based products – raw materials rather that go into our products on the light side.
For example polypropylene we used about 18 million pounds of polypropylene every year and we also use PVC in our business.
And with that we use generally something in the range of about 30 million pounds of PVC.
Now we would expect that if oil prices and gas prices remain low that will see decreases in those input costs which will be good for our business.
We also expect that it will be a hard fought with the manufacturers of those products to get them to reduce prices.
So I wouldn't expect an immediate drop in those input costs and the business but still there – could be the potential for some good tailwinds in terms of those material costs.
Then we got diesel in our business and of course there is other things as well but these are the kind of three main inputs that would be tied to energy.
With diesel on the light side of our business we use something in the range of 900 000 to 1 million gallons of diesel.
With that of course with the drop in oil prices we would expect to see some tailwind in our cost for transportation on the light side of the business.
On the heavy side of the business we have a little bit different structure which I think is what you are pointing out.
It is a structure where often we have passthroughs or surcharges that we got build into our contracts to help us protect ourselves from changes in fuel costs.
So I would say on that the construction material side of the business we have kind of a fractional exposure to gas and oil prices.
And so although I would expect again with low diesel to have some benefits it would be a fractional amount of what we might see if we had full exposure to those cost inputs.
I hope that helps.
It does.
Thank you Don.
The next question comes from Chip Moore with Canaccord.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Kirk on fly ash pricing 3% net price in the quarter very good.
That sounds like you are pretty optimistic for similar price increases.
Should we think about that as a source of upside in terms of that 3% to 4% contemplated in the outlook for the year or how we are thinking about that? Yes.
I think we are pretty comfortable that we can continue to move forward in that 3% price increase.
But there is a potential it that we could get some improvement off of that 3%.
And we are certainly to be in the market trying to do that.
And one thing I would add this is Don.
When you think about our guidance for the year we did anticipate fly ash price increases in the range of net 3% to 4%.
So if we capture that that would be consistent with what we expected in – as we developed our guidance.
Okay sure.
And moving to the services side of that business it sounds like you are a little more optimistic on that picking up again how long do you think it takes for whether it states to clarify their regulatory mechanisms to trickle down? It's going to take awhile.
I wouldn't anticipate significant changes in service revenue in 2015.
It's going to take at least 2015 for people to adjust for the new rule set.
Yes.
That's fair.
And then at last moving over to light building particularly on the block business maybe you can talk about what you are seeing in terms of trends there particularly with – obviously the oil and gas industry being big for the Texas market? The trends are quite positive for us.
We have seen no negative impact whatsoever.
Our revenue is principally institutional sales and there is probably over 50 school districts that have already raised money and have projects that are in different stages of moving forward.
We anticipate those projects are move to look forward into 2015/2016.
And feel pretty comfortable that our base revenue in the Texas market is very solid.
Yes.
That's perfect.
Thanks Kirk.
The next question comes from Dan Mannes with Avondale.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Dan.
Couple of quick follow-ups here you talked about the blocks business in Texas can you also talk maybe about the fly ash business how much exposure you have to the Texas market in terms of sales and what the nature has been in terms of the demand and have you seen any changes there in the recent past? And Texas is a very important state to Headwaters both from a block perspective and from fly ash perspective.
A lot of our fly ash sales go into infrastructure projects and those projects are planned out 12 to 18 months and some of the very larger ones actually longer than that.
But since those projects have been – they have been planned for 12 15 to 18 months what we are seeing is a continued increase in these fly ash.
And so we feel very comfortable that our – again our core business that is in the Texas market is very solid continues to perform well and we anticipate that will continue for the next 12 15 months.
This is Don.
One other thing I would add to that is we of course are talking to our customers on a pretty regular basis and our ready-mix customers in Texas are still very optimistic in terms of a strong 2015.
They are continuing to strength in demand and so we are seeing 2015 as a good year.
Got it.
That's good color.
Two more quick ones first on the energy business a little bit softer this quarter I realize there is some lumpiness because you only have a couple of customers.
Can you maybe talk through where you are on the new business acquisition front there? And secondly on your plans in terms of long-term ownership of this business? I think that we have made some very good progress in the quarter and anticipate that we will have one to two new customers in 2015.
And I think that the direction of our interaction with those customers are positive.
So I feel comfortable that we are going to end up with incremental customers.
Importantly the trend is very positive as far as the market size that we are engaged.
So it's going from like 500 000 barrels per day to over a million barrels per day.
And our relationship with these new – with the new capacity is coming online is what gives us great comfort in the value-added proposition that we are bringing to the table and the creation of value for our shareholders.
We anticipate that we will sell the energy component of our business that HCAT and the timing of that is probably into 2016 when we will be able to seriously consider that so.
Okay.
And then the last question just on your corporate level SG&amp;A the numbers have bounced around a little bit it look like you are running at a much higher run rate in the second half of last year and they came down pretty dramatically in the first quarter.
Can you maybe help us think through the seasonality of that or how to think about that over the course of the year? Yes.
This is Don.
I will answer that question.
First you will see a little bit of seasonality just due to the timing of things like marketing spend.
There is not a lot of science to it that I can give you but there is on the margin some seasonality.
One thing to keep in mind when you look at our fixed costs or SG&amp;A is that the acquisitions as we pick up businesses we pick up their fixed cost structures.
And so when you look period to period especially year-over-year and you see changes in SG&amp;A typically upward changes of SG&amp;A you need to keep in mind that those acquisitions can be a really key driver in those increases.
Now our goals around SG&amp;A are to manage it very very aggressively and so we look to keep our inflation around fixed cost including SG&amp;A to very very tight.
We want to continue to progress toward leveraging that pool of costs and getting that SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue down in the 15% or lower range.
That's our longer term goal.
And we are continuing to progress with that.
I was really focusing just on the corporate line which I think excludes the acquired enterprises.
You were running about corporate level operating income is about $4.5 million cost this quarter and you are running $6 million and $7 million in the second half of last year.
So I'm just trying to figure out if this is the run rate or if we need to think it's going to move back toward to where it was in the last half of last year? One thing to keep in mind when you look at that line item we do have some cash SARs instruments that are still outstanding that for the individual business units including corporate.
We leave that variable expense in the figures you are seeing and then we strip out the effect of cash charges for the entire company in one-line.
So what you are seeing in some of the variability from period-to-period has been the movement in stock price which has driven compensation expense typically upward because the stock has been going up.
I think it's going on as we generally prognosis in the June and September quarters because of the seasonality – the underlying seasonality of the business and that has an impact on corporate SG&amp;A.
They will certainly effect – for sure the quarter-over-quarter year-over-year you will see that effect typically but that's a good point.
Sounds good.
Thanks for the color.
You bet.
Next question comes from Philip Volpicelli with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So most of my questions have been answered but I just wondering if Don you could give us some thoughts on the balance sheet your seven and five-eights are callable in April then your seven and quarters are callable in January of next year and then obviously you got the convertible and subordinated note due in February of next year.
How do you see the balance sheet progressing when you consider refinancing the seven and five-eights I think that and then doing the rest of the structure as they comes due or would you contemplate a global recapitalization? No.
We are looking at all options relative to what the market conditions are.
And so one of the things that we are enjoying is some flexibility and that's come to us because of the performance of the business and the cash generation that's been posted.
So when we are looking at our capital structure we are looking at options available.
We have got the near term maturity is going to be the eight and three quarter notes that's how we are going to mature in 2016 apart from that it's about do we want to take advantage of call options available.
The nearest term call option as you pointed out is the $400 million of notes that we can call at 1038 starting in April of this year.
And we are looking at all the options available to us in terms of that call.
If the market conditions are there I could see us doing something.
If we don't feel market conditions are right then we are in a fortunate position where we don't have that debt that is imminently maturing and we could wait to for even more favorable market conditions to be there.
As far as what we have replaced it with if we did again it's driven largely by what's the market offering in terms of the different instruments whether it would be term instruments or high-yield instruments and we will look to be economy animals and make the right choice.
Great.
And then in terms of acquisitions obviously they come up and go depending upon what the market is doing.
Any thought to what the maximum you might consider in terms of size of acquisition for the rest of the year? There isn't.
We don't really have a size parameter.
We are looking for high margin niche opportunities and particularly ones where we can – where the acquisition is consistent with our core strategy of dealing with our customer base and a total solution approach to that customer base.
So there isn't necessarily a size parameter that we are interested in.
We are interested in the post synergy creation of value that is consistent with our existing strategy.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
The next question comes from Jeff Bernstein with AH Lisanti.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Just wanted to follow up a little bit more on the Texas market.
I think your exposure there between block fly ash and I guess whatever piece of the stone business was there was something around 20% or so.
Is that kind of the right number? And can you talk specifically to the faux stone business? Hey that number is in the ball park.
And actually the way that we take the stone to market in Texas is through our block product group.
And so it's actually included in that number and in as part of our block product group sales.
So it's a very – it's a – we have very minimal exposure in our stone product in the Texas market.
Okay.
So that piece of the block business is just not very big? Correct.
Got you.
Very small.
Thanks so much.
Your next question comes from Eleanor Price with Insight Investment.
Please go ahead.
Hi there.
Most of my questions have actually been answered.
Just to follow-up one on the balance sheet structure.
Do you have any sort of specific net leverage targets that you have got in mind given the sort of – puts a lot of deleveraging of recent years? Actually our stated goal has been a net leverage ratio of 2.5 to 3x.
And so this quarter we hit the top-end of that range.
Okay.
And sorry where do you – you are almost there in terms of the target.
I mean would you rather be at 2.5 versus 3 or from the sort of level you would be happy to look at more bolt-on acquisitions as long as they can releverage the balance sheet sort of too much as it were? That's correct.
But we also have a – we also intend to reduce our gross debts.
So we will proceed along that path.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
The next question comes from Charlie Smith with Fort Pitt Capital.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning.
Excellent quarter.
My question is on the manufactured stone business.
It looked like you had sort of low double-digit type growth there in that business.
Can you break out the components in terms of price and volume? Yes.
In our stone product group predominant factor that drives revenue growth is volume.
We have some selected price increases but they are immaterial as compared to the volume increases.
Okay.
And how you position for capacity there? Probably in the 65% capacity 65% to 70% capacity.
Okay.
Does that apply across all geographies? Yes.
That's generally true.
Okay.
Thanks.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I will now like to turn the conference back over to Sharon Madden for any closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
If there are no further questions then we will go ahead and conclude the call.
We appreciate your participation.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Headwaters Q2 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the conference over to Tricia Ross.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Headwaters Incorporated second quarter fiscal year 2015 conference call.
There are slides accompanying today's presentation.
They can be found on the webcast link at the Headwaters Incorporated website under the events and presentations tab.
Please go there to follow along with the slides.
If you have any issues please feel free to email me at tross@finprofiles.com and I can also email you a PDF copy.
With that I would now like to turn the call over to Sharon Madden Head of Investor Relations at headwaters Incorporated.
Thank you Tricia.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us as we report Headwaters' fiscal 2015 Q2 results.
This morning's call will be led by Kirk Benson Headwaters Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Don Newman Headwaters Chief Financial Officer.
While listening to today's call please remember that certain statements made during the call including statements relating to our expected future business and financial performance may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of Section 27-A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21-E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 both as amended.
Forward-looking statements by their very nature address matters that are to different degrees uncertain.
These uncertainties are described in more detail in Headwaters' Annual and Quarterly Reports filed with the SEC.
You can find Headwaters' Annual Report on Form 10-K and the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings that are readily available for from the SEC website Headwaters' website or directly from the company.
With that I will now turn the call over to Kirk Benson.
Kirk? Thank you Sharon.
Turning to slide 3 of the presentation we had a very positive quarter continuing our path of topline growth with leadership economics.
Highlights from the quarter included double-digit organic revenue growth near record year-over-year percentage increase in fly ash volume and a positive pricing environment continued growth in building products revenue and adjusted EBITDA and we completed the debt restructuring repayment that will save $16 million in annual interest expense.
Revenue increased 15% adjusted EBITDA 35%.
Adjusted EPS went from a negative to a positive $0.06.
The 10% organic revenue growth was very positive and was the fastest organic growth rate in several years.
Due to a number of factors including our strong six-month performance we have increased our fiscal 2015 adjusted EBITDA guidance range to $155 million to $170 million.
During the quarter we restructured our debt by repaying approximately $49 million of our 8.75% convertible note and refinanced our $400 million senior secured notes.
The results of the restructuring included reduced total debt by $25 million reduced our weighted average interest rate to 5.2% extended our senior secured debt maturities to 2022 increased our free cash flow annually by $16 million.
And on a pro forma basis trailing 12 months adjusted EPS was $1.09 at March 31.
So now turn to slide 4 of the presentation.
As you can see revenues from our building products segment for the second quarter increased $12.3 million to $106.4 million an increase of 13% over last year's second quarter.
Revenues increased 7% organically.
We experienced broad-based improvement in revenues in the quarter even as the economy slowed and despite extreme winter conditions in certain key geographies.
As the economy strengthens over the summer we're well-positioned for growth.
We saw similar signs of residential repair and remodel improvement in the second quarter as we did in our first fiscal quarter.
Products with major exposure to repair and remodel enjoyed mid-single-digit organic growth which is an improvement over prior period.
Growth of single-family housing starts for the first half of our fiscal year grew 6% slightly higher than the 5% growth during our fiscal year 2014.
Since our product with exposure to new construction grew faster than housing starts would indicate we have outperformed the expected growth rate due to the introduction of new products and potentially market share gains.
We added to our niche roofing products during 2014.
This category performed well in the quarter as sales increased year-over-year.
We feel that specialty roofing products continue to grow at a faster pace than commodity roofing products.
The increase in building products revenue led to a 22% improvement of adjusted EBITDA for the quarter improving from $11.1 million last year to $13.5 million this quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA margin improved by 90 basis points due to operating leverage as well as cost improvements.
That included the benefit from lower energy costs.
Now turn to slide 5.
You can see that revenue for the March 2015 quarter in our construction materials business was $67.5 million compared to $59.1 million for the March 2014 quarter resulting in a 14% year-over-year increase.
The growth was related to increased volume and price of fly ash sold during the quarter.
As you know Headwaters Resources provides site services to many of its utility clients.
Site service revenue for the March 2015 quarter was lower year-over-year due to work completed on certain contracts.
Site service revenue was 25% of our overall revenue for the March 2015 quarter compared to 32% last year.
In 2015 we expect service revenue will be a lower percentage of overall revenue than in 2014 because our ash sales are projected to increase.
During the March quarter we experienced colder than normal temperatures in the Northeast and an abnormally wet winter along the Gulf Coast.
Despite this weather there was an increase in the tons of high quality fly ash shipped for the March 2015 quarter driven by increases in other parts of the United States.
During the quarter we realized a net 5% year-over-year price increase for high-quality fly ash.
As we have done in prior years we have implemented price increases in the March quarter and the pricing environment continues to be favorable.
We continue to project a net 4% price increase for the year.
The Portland Cement Association is forecasting 7.5% growth of cement consumption in calendar 2015.
We continued to see strong demand for fly ash and we expect to be positive relative - we expect a very positive environment for fly ash demand.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter increased 40% to $12 million compared to $8.6 million last year.
Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 320 basis points year-over-year.
Operating leverage combined with our ongoing continuous improvement initiatives is evident as the revenue growth of 14% resulted in adjusted EBITDA growth of 40%.
The EPA recently published its final subtitle D rule.
Beneficial use is specifically exempt from regulation and it is supported by the EPA.
The EPA rule provides regulatory certainty that will allow us to continue to grow the beneficial use of coal ash.
We also anticipate that the upgraded standards for coal ash disposal under requisite Subtitle D will provide new opportunities for our site services group.
Legislatively there is a bill moving through the House of Representatives using the EPA regulations as a basis for minimum federal standards but it shifts enforcement from citizen lawsuits to the state environmental agencies.
Now I would like to turn the time over to Don for our financial review.
Thank you Kirk.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
I will start with slide 6.
This was our best March quarter from a revenue operating income and adjusted EBITDA standpoint since 2007 and showed continuation of the momentum we have built in the business over the past four years.
Not only did the topline grow 15% but we saw margin expansion and substantial operating income and adjusted EBITDA growth.
We finished the quarter with $180 million of revenue up from $157 million in 2014.
Both legacy businesses and acquisitions drove our top and bottom line performance as the 15% growth in revenue included 10% organic growth and 5% growth from acquisitions.
Adjusted EBITDA in the quarter was $24 million an increase of 35% over 2014 levels.
Year-to-date the business has excelled with revenue growth of $57 million.
While revenue increased 18% in the first half of the fiscal year adjusted EBITDA increased 38% reflecting our strong operating leverage and cost management efforts.
Let's move to slide 7 for a closer look at the quarter.
This was the 15th consecutive quarter positive year-over-year revenue and adjusted EBITDA growth and the eighth quarter in a row of double-digit revenue growth.
Revenue growth was balanced between our core segments as building products revenue increased 13% year-over-year and construction materials revenue increased 14%.
Gross profit increased 22% and gross margin extended 155 basis points as revenue increases dropped through.
Revenue growth and cost management efforts resulted in a 15-fold increase in operating income from near breakeven levels in 2014 to more than $8 million in the current quarter.
Interest expense in the quarter includes roughly $25 million of non-routine costs associated with early debt repayments in the quarter.
We ended the quarter with $190 million of pretax NOLs and $25 million of tax credits that will shelter significant future income from cash taxes.
After adjusting for non-routine items such as the additional interest charges and acquisition-related amortization adjusted EPS for the quarter was $0.06 per share compared to a loss of $0.04 in 2014.
Now let's move to slide 8 and look at the year to date results.
We started the fiscal year with 21% topline growth in Q1 and followed that with strong performance of 15% topline growth in Q2.
The result was revenue growth of more than $57 million year to date up 18% from the first half of fiscal 2014.
The top line performance resulted in a 29% increase in gross profit a 238% increase in operating income and a 38% increase in adjusted EBITDA.
The dollar growth was matched with margin expansion as gross margin increased 240 basis points operating margin increased 470 basis points and adjusted EBITDA margin increased 220 basis points.
For the trailing 12 months ended March 31 revenue was $849 million.
Adjusted EBITDA $154 million; and adjusted EBITDA margin was 18.1%.
The 18.1% margin actually exceeds the 17.9% margin we achieved at our peak in 2006.
Moving to slide 9 the March quarter was important from a capital structure standpoint as well.
We refinanced our 7 5/8 senior secured notes with a $425 million term loan B.
The term loan matures in March of 2022 and bears interest at LIBOR plus 350 basis points with a LIBOR floor of 1%.
The refinancing results in a $12 million reduction in annual cash interest costs.
We also repaid $49 million of 8.75% convertible notes that were originally to mature in February 2016 saving an additional $4 million in annual cash interest.
Our annual cash interest expense has been reduced from a run rate of $47 million at the close of the December 2014 quarter to a run rate of approximately $31 million.
GAAP interest expense has also been reduced to an annual expense of $33 million.
With these steps our weighted average interest rate has been decreased to 5.2% and our nearest scheduled significant debt maturity is January 2019.
We finished the quarter with a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 3.1 times down from 3.2 times at the end of fiscal 2014.
We also amended our ABL facility during the quarter extending its maturity to March 2020 and improving pricing and flexibility.
Now let's move to slide 10 and talk about 2015 guidance.
With a strong performance in the first six months of the year and a positive outlook for the remainder of the year we're raising our 2015 adjusted EBITDA guidance to a range of $155 million to $170 million.
This is the second upgrade to our guidance in as many quarters.
The updated range represents growth of between 12% and 23% over fiscal year 2014 levels.
With the half year of the interest savings we anticipate generating $55 million to $60 million of free cash flow in fiscal 2015 excluding early debt repayment premiums.
With that I will turn the back over to the operator to take questions.
[Operator Instructions].
And our question comes from Nishu Sood from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
First question I wanted to ask was about the guidance; as you were just mentioning raised it two quarters in a row here.
I was wondering if you could give us some detail on which divisions in particular are driving the increase in the guidance this quarter.
Generally we have had very good performance in both segments and feel comfortable that most segments are contributing to growth in our adjusted EBITDA.
We do think that the construction materials segment performed a little bit better in the March quarter.
And so that supported our decision to raise guidance.
Got it.
And digging in on the construction materials 14% revenue growth.
And if you strip out the services decline that would imply fly ash growth of high teens even perhaps.
So I was just wondering if you could talk about from an end market perspective that is pretty impressive growth and certainly above what you have assumed as guidance for the rest of the year.
What has been driving that just from an end market perspective in your view? I think there are several things that are occurring.
Clearly there is continued demand for Portland cement.
And as a substitute product we get to benefit from that increased overall demand in Portland cement.
I think that there has been an opportunity to increase the substitution rate.
That is one of the things that is driving fly ash consumption at a higher rate than Portland cement consumption.
And then there are some opportunities to gain a little bit of market share.
I think those other factors that are driving the upside to our fly ash sales.
Got it.
And just one modeling question.
The services I think you mentioned was down year-over-year in gross revenues.
You mentioned for the year that you expect the percentage component services to be down.
Would it also be down on an absolute gross basis? Or would you expect - I think you mentioned some temporary factors.
Would you expect those to reverse in the back half of the year? We had an exceptionally good quarter in 2014 from a service perspective.
We had a number of projects that were relatively high margin and short in duration.
Those projects have completed.
And so we expect that the remainder of the year is going to be relatively consistent with prior year.
But the percentage is going to be lower because fly ash sales will be significantly higher.
And our next question is from John Baugh from Stifel.
Please go ahead.
I was curious on this thing on the fly ash what the pricing environment has done relative to your expectations.
I heard you said you still expect 4% for the year.
But I'm wondering as we get later in the year what we get closer to niche roof with demand being so strong on a unit basis whether there is potential for pricing to go up from here or that ash should stay with 4% net pricing for the year? We think that there may be some upside opportunity in pricing.
We typically raise prices in the March quarter which is - traditionally that is what happens and that is what happened this year.
We're getting to a point in time where there could be some shortages in Portland cement relative to - comparing demand to production capacity.
And we will have to start importing Portland cement to make up that gap.
But that does give us an opportunity to not only increase volume of fly ash sales but also a trend would be towards a positive pricing environment.
So there could potentially be some upside.
One thing I would add to that too in the first half of the year our pricing I would say has been consistent with what we had expected.
In Q1 our net price increases were at 3%.
Q2 they were at 5% so right in that range of what we have talked about for guidance through this year but maybe some upside for the second half.
And Kirk if I heard you correctly I think you referenced a 5% growth rate on building products side on the repair and remodel market.
Correct me if I'm wrong on that.
But I'm curious given the weather issues and other things do you think that pace was maybe a little bit better than the market? I guess what I'm really driving at is your sense of share gain within that area specifically.
I think that we're experiencing some share gain.
It depends on the different product category.
But for certain of these product categories I think we're experiencing share gain.
And lastly could you - without obviously giving us specifics any sense of the acquisition pipeline and your appetite for acquisitions at this point in time? Thanks so much and congrats on a great quarter.
We're being very disciplined relative to our acquisition activities.
The targets need to fit squarely within our strategy.
But we're very very interested in target acquisitions that do fit that strategy both from an operation perspective a product perspective and a pricing perspective.
We're in the very early stages on looking at a number of potential bolt-on acquisitions.
And our next question is from John Quealy from Canaccord Genuity.
Please go ahead.
First in light building products you mentioned some strength in deciding siding accessories.
Can you give us a little bit more detail how the different product lines were going specifically around the vinyl business as well as some of the rock business? I have a follow-up.
I think in siding accessories there is - we have expanded our customer network not to new customers but rather taking the cellular PVC trimboard product and expanding it to existing customers outside of its traditional base in New England.
And that is proving to be very positive.
We anticipate double-digit growth in our PVC trimboard product.
And so that is growth in excess of market.
And so the reason that that occurs is because of the expansion of that product into a larger customer base.
We have also introduced a new specialty siding product.
We're very excited and enthusiastic about how this product has been received in the marketplace.
We have developed and applied some technology to the development of this product that has really never been done before in a specialty siding product.
And we're getting a very positive response from that new specialty siding product and we anticipate that we will be able to gain some market share.
So we're very positive about siding accessories particularly with the two examples that I just gave you for market share expansion.
And Kirk looking at the category overall in terms of channel sell-in given a cold and relatively snowy winter we had in the northeast portion of the country does the channel have good inventories or are you lagging behind at all? I don't think that there is a lot of inventory in the channels.
I mean there was a dramatic change in the down cycle that I don't think has reverted to the addition of inventories in the channels.
We have got plenty of capacity.
We're still making shipments in 48 to 96 hours after receipt of the orders.
So there isn't a significant reason for the channels to increase their inventory levels.
So I think to a large degree we have become more efficient as a system in getting these products into the hands of our customers without the need for a lot of inventory.
And my last one shifting over to fly ash on the Lafarge and Holcim acquisition and some divestitures here the United States is it creating any channel churn for you folks to get either new customers or incremental pricing? Or is it just more of a corporate issue and the operating terminal guys aren't seeing any of that disruption? Thanks again.
You're welcome.
I don't think that there is a lot of impact on those transactions that is bearing on Headwaters.
We're not seeing a lot of change as a result of those transactions.
And our next question is from Al Kaschalk from Wedbush Securities.
Please go ahead.
Just wanted to touch on the fly ash business.
Kirk to take a step back and summarize what I think on the quarter what I heard you say is that the Northeast was cold the Gulf Coast was wet and it picked up - I don't know if it was volume but certainly some volumes in other parts primarily in the central region.
And given that that is a little bit better price/margin for you that led to maybe the stronger performance in the quarter.
Is that a fair assessment? Or if not could you add a little bit more color on the strengths? I think your assessment is fairly close to being accurate.
We did have good growth in the West.
The West has some of our highest margins.
And so from a mix perspective that was positive.
Even though it was wet in the Gulf Coast we did have growth in the central part of the country.
And so by and large there was momentum that started in the first quarter that carried over into the second quarter.
And we think as the rain abates in the Gulf region that there is a lot of demand there.
So we're very optimistic toward the remainder of the year.
Right.
And if I recall the president of that group has said in the past that weather delays are simply that.
It is not lost business so hence supporting the positive outlook for the balance of certainly the calendar year.
Is that fair? Yes I think that is right.
Yes that is right.
Okay.
And then obviously the EPA ruled but where are we on the service potential contract wins at various utility locations? And what is to be expected some additional service contracts down the road? Are those starting? Are you submitting bids? Have you - have any been let? How are we positioned there? I think we're experiencing the highest bid volume that I can remember.
And so we think that there is some opportunities for growth in the service side of the business.
It is a little bit different than the fly ash side of the business.
But we're seeing a pretty good backlog Al and bidding on projects.
And when do you expect that we would start to hear you talk about contracts being awarded and therefore contributing? Or are we still in the fiscal 2016 in terms of that potential? For financial impact it will be fiscal 2016 for sure.
And we won't talk about it unless we win a few of the contracts.
But it will end up having impact in fiscal 2016.
Just two housekeeping items maybe for Don.
Interest expense for a run rate of $31 million in terms of the next quarter Q3 are there other non-debt related costs or noninterest costs that will be hitting below the line? Just a clarification on whether that would be amortization cost or others - what besides just the actual rate cost? So you're talking about additional expenses other than cash interest expense; is that right Al? Right.
That is right.
Okay.
So from a cash run rate we're at about $31 million.
From a GAAP run rate standpoint it is about $33 million.
So you're picking up about $2 million of non-cash related expense on an annual basis.
And I think if you go back and you look at prior quarters that non-cash element of our interest expense is pretty consistent on the go forward as it has been in the prior several quarters.
That's right.
Okay.
And then at the end of the call you mentioned free cash flow excluding certain items was going to be around - I don't know if it was $55 million to $60 million or $50 million to $60 million.
And what was A that range and then B what were the items that you excluded or anticipate to exclude to get us to that? Sure.
The way to think about it first is we had originally given guidance around our free cash flow for 2015 at around $50 million.
And because of the refinancing and the debt repayments and generating $16 million of an annual interest - cash interest benefit we're going to pick up about half of that $16 million in the second half of this year.
So that gets us from $50 million to $58 million.
So we wanted to show that connection when we gave that range of $55 million to $60 million of free cash flow.
In terms of the prepayment premiums that we experienced in the second quarter with the repayments and the refinancing there were - [indiscernible] was roughly $21 million of cash related expenditures on retiring the 7 5/8 and retiring the 8 3/4 converts.
And so that gives you a sense as to the cash out the door to support those good restructuring activities that we did with our debt.
And I would be remiss if I didn't ask if you had the cash flow from ops for the quarter or for the first six months of the year.
It is not something that we would typically talk about at this point.
We will share that in our Q which we will file later this week.
And our next question is from Rohit Seth from SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
It is Keith Hughes from SunTrust.
I have a question on briefing.
I know you have been doing some integration work there some distribution expansion.
But can you give us an update on where you stand on that? And also I assume that would be an area for bolt-on.
Typically what kind of products would you like to add? To answer the last half of your question first we're pretty comfortable with the three niche products that we're currently in which are the composite stonecutter metal and concrete roof tile.
So we think that those three products are projected to grow at a rate higher than not only commodity products but higher than other niche products as well.
So we feel pretty good about the three products that we're in.
From an acquisition perspective we would be interested in acquisitions in all three of those product categories so the three that I just mentioned.
And our goal is leadership economics which is - we define that as a 20% adjusted EBITDA margin.
I think we're looking at opportunities to improve our existing margins in those products.
And so just like we did in the trim board product where we went from 11% or 12% adjusted EBITDA up to a 20% adjusted EBITDA I think there is an opportunity to do something similar in these niche roofing products.
And so you're absolutely right.
That is something that is currently on our radar screen to positively impact the margins in those products.
And would an acquisition be focused primarily on a new product or would it be a distribution territory of the business? If it's not a new product.
I think we're comfortable with the product categories that we're currently involved in.
If we did a transaction in concrete tile it could be an existing territory but we're in Florida.
That product is relatively heavy so we're limited to Florida.
So a transaction outside of Florida would clearly be an expansion of our geography.
The other two products are nationally based.
And so a transaction wouldn't expand a geography but what it could do is increase our penetration into our customer base.
And there could be synergies from a manufacturing perspective for a transaction in either the composite roofing or the stone coated metal.
And our final question comes from Dan Manes from Avondale Partners.
Please go ahead.
If I'm the last question that means I have a while here.
But I will only ask one or two.
First of all as it relates to your guidance for the year we noticed probably your strongest quarter we have seen in two or three years in the energy business.
I think you did about $1.8 million in adjusted EBITDA.
How important is the energy segment as it relates to raising your guidance? And should we look at this as a more normal quarter of performance relative to what we have been seeing in the past? It did not impact our decision to raise guidance.
So we're basically focused on the construction materials and building parts of products of our business.
It wasn't a factor in raising the guidance.
The issue relative to the energy segments which represent a very small percentage of our revenue is that you could expect that these quarters could be - could fluctuate because we have a fairly small customer base.
And so if you have a difference in shipping just timing can make a difference in a quarter.
Now all that said we're having a very good year in that energy segment.
And so we don't anticipate any particular change in the next two quarters but we were focused on building products and construction materials what we set our guidance.
And something else to remember on energy is because of the small customer set the earnings from quarter to quarter can be pretty chunky.
And so we shouldn't project off of one quarter's performance when it comes to that business.
So we had a good quarter as you point out but we're not predicting that kind of breakout for the balance of the year-- And then a couple of questions on HCM first as it relates to volumes it looks like based on your numbers I think product sales were up roughly 26%.
And based on 5% from price that means 20%-plus from volume.
That is the second quarter in a row of over 20%.
And you're still holding to kind of the high single digit number for the year.
Can you kind of cross that bridge for us? Is that just conservatism or there is a reason why seasonally maybe you have outperformed those kind of volume forecasts? We feel very good about the performance in the 12/31 and the 3/31 one quarters.
You're absolutely right.
We have had very high double-digit increases in volume and we have had very strong pricing.
So what happens of course is because we're a seasonal business is that in the June and the September quarters we expect continued increases and continued strength.
But as a percentage it is probably going to be lower because of the seasonality of the business.
So I think we're being a little bit conservative.
But you're going to end up having a lower percentage just because the denominator gets bigger in - or the 2014 numbers that are bigger in the June and September quarters just because of seasonality of the business.
Got it.
And then the last one just on the supply side you guys have historically maintained you have a lot of headroom between the roughly 8 million tons that you guys collect and the let's say 5 million-plus certainly migrating up from that that you're selling.
Can you talk about number one any impact you're seeing from coal to gas switching at some of your clients? And number two the impact of - now that MATS has finally actually been implemented are you seeing any reduction in available product from either of those drivers? Neither one of those factors are having a material impact on our availability of supply.
Operator with that we will go ahead and conclude today's call.
Thank you all for joining us.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good day and welcome to the Headwaters Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Tricia Ross of Financial Profiles.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
And thank you for joining us for the Headwaters Incorporated third quarter fiscal year 2015 conference call.
There is are slides accompanying today's presentation.
That can be found on the webcast link of the Headwaters Incorporated Web site under Events and Presentations tab.
Please go there to follow along with the slides.
If you have any issues please feel free to e-mail me at tross@finprofiles.com and I can also email you a PDF copy.
With that I would now like to turn the call over to Sharon Madden Head of Investor Relations at Headwaters Incorporated.
Thank you Tricia.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us this morning.
This morning's call will be led by Kirk Benson Headwaters' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Don Newman Headwaters' Chief Financial Officer.
While listening to the call today it is important remember that certain statements made during the call including statements relating to our expected future business and financial performance may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 both as amended.
Forward-looking statements by their very nature address matters that are to different degrees uncertain.
These uncertainties are described in more detail in Headwaters' annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
You can find Headwaters' annual report on Form 10-K quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other SEC filings readily available from the SEC's Web site Headwaters' Web site or directly from the company.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Kirk Benson.
Kirk? Thank you Sharon.
We enjoyed a positive quarter finishing with trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA of $158 million.
Net income went on double going from $11 million to $23 million in the quarter.
All areas of the income statements improved.
Revenue was up 9% gross profit up 13% operating income up 30% and adjusted earnings per share up 38%.
We enjoyed substantial improvement for our financial performance compared to last year even though we were impacted by very high levels of rain during the quarter.
Texas had more rain than in the past 121 years.
And although June was drier June still rained the 91st wettest June out of 121 years.
And Texas wasn’t alone Illinois Indiana and Ohio set record precipitation levels I June as a mid-west mid-Atlantic and northeast all had rainfall significantly above average.
And even with the extended rainfall in June June was clearly the strongest month in the quarter leading us to believe that underlying demand remained strong and the September quarter will result in further growth.
Also the momentum from June appears to have carried over into July.
Our cash is seasonal and as you can see from our balance sheet cash reports $100 million up $20 million from March 31 and as of July was $110 million.
Clearly we are benefitting from last quarter's refinancing that's interest expense declined by $4 million contributing to free cash flow.
We have identified several bolt-on acquisitions that are now in varying stages of diligence and negotiations.
The potential acquisitions set our strategy perfectly increasing our product position with core customers.
We believe that our cash can be invested in the near-term to increase shareholder value by providing a lift to growth rate and cash flow and also provide an increase to our down cycle base EBITDA substantially slightly reducing our long-term cycle risk.
Now turning to slide 4.
On slide 4 you can see revenues from our building product segment for the third quarter increased by $7.2 million to $147.8 million an increase of 5% over last year's third quarter.
We feel the underlying demand continues to be strong volumes deferred from the third quarter will help sales in the next couple of quarter.
As the economy continues to strengthen there is an increase in demand for trade labor.
If there is a bright spot in a slow economic recovery it maybe that it gives the labor markets time to adjust.
In any event the labor markets can have a tempering effect on construction.
We don’t think that these labor shortages will impact the total demand for our products but rather the speed of growth.
Growth of single family housing starts for our third quarter grew 12% and year-to-date have grown 9%.
We continue to perform in line with the expected growth rates in our products with major exposure to new residential construction and are optimistic as the pace of start seems to be picking up.
The increase in building products revenue will add to a 10% improvement of adjusted EBITDA up for the quarter improvement from $29.6 million last year to $32.7 million this quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA margins improved by 110 basis points to 22.1% due to operating leverage as well as cost improvements that included benefits from lower energy.
Now turning to slide 5.
We had a record June revenue and adjusted EBITDA in our construction materials segment.
So we've recovered nicely from the rainy impacted April and May.
Revenue for the June 2015 quarter was 91.9 million compared to 80.6 million for the June 2014 resulting in a 14% year-over-year increase.
Headwaters provide site services to many of our utility clients.
Site service revenue for the June 2015 quarter was slightly lower year-over-year due to work completed on certain contracts and was 18.5% of our overall revenue for the year compared to -- actually overall revenue for the quarter compared to 22.5% of our overall revenue for the June 2014 quarter.
In 2015 we expect service revenue to be a lower percentage of overall revenue than in 2014 because our fly ash sales are projected to continue to increase.
During the June quarter we experienced an abnormally wet spring in many parts of the country and especially along the Gulf Coast.
Despite this weather there was a slight increase overall in the terms of high value fly ash shift for the June 2015 quarter driven by increases in other parts of the United States.
During that quarter we realized approximately a net 6% year-over-year price increase for higher value fly ash compared to 3% and 5% increases in the prior two quarters.
Traditionally we have implemented price increases in the March quarter.
This year we were able to increase prices in several areas during the December quarter and implemented price increases in other areas during the March quarter.
We have continued to implement additional price increases during the June quarter in several areas and we believe that we are going to be able to implement additional price increases during the September quarter.
The environment for price increases continues to be very favorable.
Gross profit for the June 2015 quarter increased 19% year-over-year to 28.1 million compared to 23.6 million for the June 2014 quarter.
Gross margin increased 130 basis points year-over-year.
Adjusted EBITDA for the June 2015 quarter increased 13% to 22.3 million compared to 19.7 million for the June 2014 quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA margins for the quarter were 24.3% and would have been higher except we experience a little over $5 million in incremental logistics and low value CCP sales with overall lower margins.
The Portland Cement Association has forecasted 7.5% year-over-year increase in cement consumption and we continue to see strong demand for fly ash as the weather improves.
We also continue to add additional storage throughout our logistics system to capture more winter time ash production and increase our terminal capacity.
We are also continuing to install or restore air technology at certain plants that are or will be injecting activated carbon.
This technology mitigates the negative impact that activated carbon has on high quality flash.
This additional storage and the installation of these restore air units should result in an improved supply as we look out into the future.
The positive momentum from June which was a record month carried nicely over into July the September quarters traditionally are strongest quarter in fly ash and we expect 2015 to be no different.
And now I could turn the call over to Don for our financial update.
Thank you Kirk.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
I will start with slide 6.
Despite one of the wettest June quarters on record which followed the March quarter with its own weather headwind our business is growing.
As a matter of fact we have grown revenue and adjusted EBITDA 16 consecutive quarters.
In Q3 revenue increased 9% to $243 million including 6% organic growth.
The 9% topline growth was a key reason for the significant increase in profitability year-over-year as net income increased 117%.
Adjusted EBITDA on the quarter increased to $49 million and adjusted EPS increased 38% to $0.40 per share.
Year-to-date revenue has increased 14% or $77 million to $623 million.
While revenue increased 14% year-to-date adjusted EBITDA increased 23% and adjusted earnings per share increased 88% reflecting our strong operating leverage and cost management efforts.
For the trailing 12 months ended June 30 revenue was $869 million and adjusted EBITDA $158 million.
Trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA margin was 18.1% our all time high margin for the ongoing business.
Our growth in combination with cash generation enabled us to reach a milestone in the quarter.
Our net debt ratio at June 30 was 2.9 times within our target range of 2.5 to 3 times; a goal that was established in 2011 had a time when our net debt ratio exceeded 6 times.
Let's move to slide 7 for a closer look at the quarter.
As noted revenue increased 9% year-over-year including a 6% organic growth.
That 9% topline growth was a key reason for the significant increase in year-over-year profitability this quarter.
The 9% increase in revenue dropped through for a 13% increase in gross profit driving a 30% increase in operating income and combined with a $4 million decrease in interest expense resulted in 117% increase in net income.
Construction materials posted 14% revenue growth due in part to a strong pricing environment and modest volume growth.
We also picked up approximately $5 million of revenue growth from activities like logistics and sales of low value CCPs which added to the bottomline although at lower profit margins.
Building products revenue growth was up 5% and was solid especially when you consider the amount of rain throughout the northeast and central U.S.
Interest expense for the quarter was $8 million $4 million lower than Q3 2014 which reflects our refinancing and debt repayments which we executed in the March 2015 quarter.
Now let's move to slide 8 to take a close look at the year-to-date results.
Year-to-date the topline has grown more than 14% or $77 million.
The 14% growth rate includes 8% organic growth.
Our strong operating leverage can be seen in the growth of operating income as 14% revenue growth resulted in an 80% increase in operating income year-over-year.
The improved performance in 2015 over 2014 is evident and our net income as well.
Year-to-date net income grew from a loss of $1.2 million in 2014 to a net income of $29 million in 2015 excluding the $25 million of non-routine costs resulting from our March financing activities.
And our adjusted EBITDA or EPS rather grew 88% year-over-year from $0.33 per share in 2014 to $0.62 per share in 2015.
We ended the June quarter with substantial NOLs and tax credits.
As you know our net amortizable deferred tax assets are fully reserve for GAAP purposes.
We ended the June quarter with an after-tax valuation reserve of $120 million.
It’s possible that we will release a substantial portion of our remaining deferred tax valuation reserves in fiscal Q4.
If that release occurs we will record a substantial book tax benefit in the September quarter which will impact GAAP earnings but have no impact on cash taxes.
After the release of the valuation reserves we’ll record GAAP expense at an estimated effective tax rate which we would expect to be in the range of 35% to 39%.
While our cash taxes rather will remain relatively low as we use our tax attributes like NOLs and tax credits to shelter earnings.
Now let’s move to slide 9 and talk about 2015 guidance.
Our trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA through June 30 2015 was $158 million.
With the strong performance year-to-date and positive outlook for the remainder of the year we are reaffirming our 2015 adjusted EBITDA guidance of $155 million to $170 million.
That range represents growth of between 12% and 23% over fiscal 2014 levels.
One other item I would mentioned is that we intensify our universal shelf registration statement later this week.
As you know these universal shelf registration statements expire after three years and our last one expired in February.
With that I’ll turn the call over to the operator to take questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Rob Hansen from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
The first question I had is just on the weather impact.
If you have any quantification of the lost EBITDA or lost revenue that you think you lost in the quarter? And was this primarily on the block side where you are probably more guaranteed to get it back because it’s commercial related and how is that kind of played out? So we don’t have a precise calculation but it’s in the millions of dollars.
So it’s on the margin it clearly impacted our adjusted EBITDA performance.
We did -- about 20% of revenue originates in taxes and that’s where our blocks regional business is centered and clearly had an impact what we saw is exactly is as you indicated it started to comeback in June.
And that's carried over very nicely into July.
We were also impacted in fly ash and in other parts for the country and our building products because they were a lot of range particularly in June in the Mid-West Northeast and Mid-Atlantic States.
So the impact was fairly broad but we are seeing that a lot of that comeback in July.
Got it okay.
So just to clarify the millions of dollars of impact that’s on the EBITDA line or the top line? Well to be true in both but on the EBITDA line that’s what I was referring to.
And then in your press release you mentioned acquisitions.
I don’t think I’ve seen that in your press release from you guys in a while.
So I just wanted to see it -- do you have anything in the pipeline now and has anything changed on the target size and whatnot? There hasn’t been any change in our strategy.
And so really no change in our target size.
We’re looking for bolt-on acquisitions that we can fairly easily assimilate into the company.
And so there hasn’t been much change there.
I think the reason that we put in the press release is as we went through a period where we didn’t have really active negotiations in place.
But I think that’s what changed in conjunction with our growing cash balance.
So one of the things that we wanted to communicate is that we feel we have some excellent opportunities to deploy our cash in a way that will grow our EBITDA revenue and create value.
So that's the reason I think its in the press release is because the pipeline seems to filled up a bit and we’re in a position where we take advantage of those opportunities.
Great.
So I guess how many kind of deals are you kind of looking at right now? Well there in really different stages so there its -- we just finished our quarterly board meeting and we were looking at in briefing our board there were 7 or 8 in our pipeline.
Our next question comes from Al Kaschalk from Wedbush Securities.
Please go ahead.
Kirk in the press release you talked about on HCM a 5.2 million in revenue from low-margin activities logistics and some sale of low-value CCPs.
Is that more one-time or is that just a period mix given the softness from the volumes related to moisture? No its more if its the reason that we -- the reason we disclose that is because it made up a fair share of our revenue growth and our adjusted EBITDA margins at 24% is very good.
Those margins are really good but they would have been better if we would not have had that $5 million lower margin revenue.
So that's reasonably disclosed as because our margins are really pretty strong and as we continue to grow our sale of fly ash and get price increases those margin should continue to be very strong.
So that was really the -- we didn’t disclose it to talk about any trend or anything like that it just a quarterly impact kind of thing that kind of -- it kind of mass a little bit the real strength in the underlying adjusted EBITDA margins in our flash segment.
That's a nice segway to my second question.
I guess the -- if it's not near peak it's probably the highest you’ve had in a number of years and it sounds from others that have reported in the end market that there's some fairly good shot that that margin has room to get higher.
Is that fair? Are you confident or do you see that as well? We typically have our best margins in the June or September quarter because that's when the marketing and a flash in construction season occurs.
This year is going to be similar we’re going to have our strongest margins in the June and September quarters and that also evidence because the services business is down to 18.5% of revenue in the quarter and those service revenues are lower margin revenue so as they become a lower percentage then you are going to end up with higher overall margins.
It sounds like the team there is pretty much focused on pushing price which is something you laid out multiple times this year.
So it's good to see.
Switching over to light building products I wanted to touch on the 4% growth so I think was the number reported.
It sounded like the majority of that was volume versus price.
And if so could you maybe articulate what you see in terms of go-forward it is a particular business unit that's going to be stronger going forward or consistent with what you just reported? Just want to get a little more color on the 4% growth? The one other things that is occurring is that then we talked a little bit about block growth was tempered in April and May because of the rain it came back very strong in June and that momentum is carrying over into July.
We have a backlog really in the Texas market for new school construction so very much oriented towards commercial and institutional and there is a backlog of projects.
So we feel very good about the prospects in the Texas market with our commercial and institutional growth into the September quarter.
Our stone unit has more exposure to new residential construction than our other products sets.
And as far as the domestic growth is concerned we expect that growth to continue.
We have a little bit of issue with the strong dollar and our exports into Europe and into Canada and those.
So our overall stone revenues have been tempered a little bit because export revenues have been impacted by the strong dollar.
I think that our siding accessories some of our new products we’re having a good growth in our cellular PVC trimboard products.
And we’re getting some good growth in our specialty siding products since we’ve introduced new products there and we’re seeing traction.
So we’re pretty comfortable that growth is going to continue in those and the primarily repair and remodel products and we think that growth is going to continue in those repair and remodel products.
Our exports there also have been tempered a little bit by the strong dollar.
So we had a little bit of pressure on exports.
I think that our roofing products there hasn’t been although you hear in the news how global warming is going to cause increased storms and the intensity of storms and anyone is invested in the roofing markets know that there haven’t been significant storms.
But we’re engaged in this niche products that we believe or taking share from the commodity products.
And so it’s a space that we’re quite excited about and feed good about the growth there.
This may be the first time in several years but the shift or the exposure on the international front how should we start to think about that as an impact going forward? And maybe what percentage of revenue or end market is now the nominal U.S.
market? Yes just generally the international sales are not particularly materially to us.
So Dan has got the precise.
Sure.
Alan broad strokes when you look at our 2014 sales for example.
Roughly 92% of our sales were in the U.S..
For the remaining 80% about 4% was to Canada and about 3% was to Europe and again in broad strokes.
So clearly the vast majority of our revenues our U.S.
based and then another 4% to the next-door neighbor up in Canada.
So it’s not a driver certainly a driver in our business we are a U.S.
based business to be sure.
The next question comes from John Quealy from Canaccord Genuity.
Please go ahead.
First congratulations on that leverage under 3%.
I know it’s been a long haul but you guys are doing a nice job so congratulations on that.
Coming back to I guess some of the Al’s points in a little bit finer detail Kirk how is Kleer? As that business line is branded how is that running in your expectations? We had a lot of damage in the Northeast and Midwest on ice dams so a lot of composite product that’s going back on houses.
Do you think your share is keeping up with the level of activity out there? And then also within siding accessories the old Capco shutters business how is that performing as exterior demand in styles has shifted? Are you happy with some of the SKU-level metrics that you see for both of those? And I’ve got a follow-up.
We feel very good about our position in the cellular PVC trim market.
I think that we are maintaining our share I think we provided some leadership in how that product is.
So I think we provided some leadership in the manufacturing of that product and we’ve been able to drive our margins from like 11% range up to 20% range.
So we feel very good about our positioning with the trimboard.
I think on the inside accessories what we are seeing strength in addition to trim we’re seeing strength in our specialty siding products.
So those are growth areas.
As far as shutters [indiscernible] blocks those continue to be high margin products and we’ve not seen a lot of volume growth there we did get a little bit of price increase so we feel very good about that those legacy products.
Okay.
And if I could just switch to Don for a second -- Don with lower petroleum is there a way to sensitize any sort of cost of sales savings in the basis point round perhaps that we can expect if oil stays down here for an extended period of time? Probably the best way I can give you sense is to tell you what we’re using and let you model let you think the effect could be so if you think about polypropylene we use about 18 million pounds a year.
PVC we used about 30 million pounds a year and diesel fuel largely in the building product side of our business we’ll be using about a 1 million gallons a year.
So you can get a pretty good sense is to what the potential costs savings are what your view line what those input cost might do.
Yes I know that's very helpful Don.
And then lastly Kirk so on price increases on the ash side another great performance.
It's been sequentially up every quarter this year.
How long can the Street go? I know Portland cement macro is good.
I know your share of ash is good.
But realistically how much more price do you think we've got in the sequential quarters? And I know it's a tough question.
But it seems like you've done a great job but how long does it continue? Thanks guys.
I think that only continue to be an opportunity because we’re now at the point in a cycle where Portland cement is going to start experiencing some shortages which for the most part will be covered with imports but that's going to help us drive fly ash sales both volume as well as price there will be also be an opportunity close some of the gap between Portland cement pricing and fly ash pricing.
So we feel very good into the future.
Our next question comes from Rohit Seth from SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys just got a question on the M&amp;A pipeline would you guys be willing to move away from exterior product focus into more interior products? In the -- for the right opportunity the answer of that question is yes.
But it does have to be the right opportunity for us it’s not that's it won’t be easy to do that but we will do it in the right circumstances.
Okay.
And if you did do a deal between now and say January does that take away from your plans to reduce debt? I know you have a callable loan here in January.
Or would you just look to refinance that one? I think we have that flexibility and so that's the decision we’ll make later in the year but clearly we’ve got the ability to do either one.
Okay.
And then on your guidance I don't know if I'm reading this right but did you increase the low end of the flash price guidance? We didn’t I think what you are probably recalling is our guidance early in the year was 3% to 5% and last quarter we had changed that 4% to 5%.
So what you are seeing is consistent with what we talked about in March.
Our next question comes from Jim Barrett from CL King and Associates.
Please go ahead.
Don you just mentioned PVC diesel polypropylene; in the end products that those materials are used in are you seeing any pricing pressure from customers or competitive pricing pressures to pass those lower costs through? Generally no.
I think that our team did a very-very good job helping our customers understand the value proposition that we bring with our products.
And with that we have not seen significant pressure to reduce price as a result of some of our input costs being down.
Keep in mind the focus of the questions has been around those raw material inputs like poly and PVC we have some cost inflation in other areas like wages.
Now I would not call those areas of inflation outsized but it's not all good guys when it comes to our cost structure and we help our customers understand that.
So long in short we do not typically see requests come through for price reductions.
Good.
And the energy technology business if I understand it correctly it's not a strategic part of the business longer term it appear to take a step back in the quarter.
What is the intermediate outlook for that business in terms of profitability? I think we should finish the year with positive adjusted EBITDA and positive cash flow it would be there will not be a rollout there but it's not a drain on our cash resources.
And we think that that level should not -- that level of profitability should continue until we are able to get additional customers that will put us in a position that we have been in.
So keep in mind when you think about that non-course is it could be chunky from quarter to quarter in terms of revenue and EBITDA.
But overall for the year as Kirk said we are expecting near breakeven EBITDA near breakeven cash flow even though from quarter to quarter you might see some minor but more significant shift swings year-over-year.
Okay.
Thanks Don.
And my last question for I think it's for you Kirk.
The bolt on acquisitions under evaluation could you tell me how many of them are the subject of an auction process or are they more private discussions between you and the businesses for sale? Must have under private discussions.
Our next question comes from Dan Mannes from Avondale Partners.
Please go ahead.
So two quick follow ups.
First I want to follow up on Al's question on international.
I guess I was a little surprised to see that in the light building products segment.
By your count I think you said 8% of total revenue is international and I want to say it was about a 2.5% headwind in the quarter.
So was there I don't know a large order last year where you were lapping or was there something unique that happened this quarter because that seems a lot more than just kind of an FX issue? I think the reason again there is not that we kind of highlighted that a little bit in the quarter is just primarily because of the nature of the quarter and generally it does not make that much different to our performance.
But this quarter was a little bit unique primarily because of the rain.
And that rain tampered our topline and so it had a little more importance this quarter than it has in the past.
Got it.
And then real quick on the HCM side you are obviously pushing pricing across your portfolio.
Can you talk maybe about any regional differences where you are seeing the best ability to get price versus others just so we can kind of same size where the opportunity is? I think generally we have been able to get price increases to some degree across the board.
It does vary but it's hard to say even varies in a region of United States because it really varies in communities.
To a large degree the pricing is more local than national and more local than regional.
So I think we are getting the pricing is kind of consistent with the - on pricing.
Okay.
I guess my last follow up there and then I will drop off would be are there regions where you now are pretty close close to parity pricing with Portland cement versus other ones where you have a bigger gap to close? Or I realize it’s very regional but I’m wondering if you can give any color there.
One little piece of color that makes some sense is the further you have to transport the ash the closer you are to Portland cement and enterprising.
So in the California market for example that’s why we will be closes to Portland cement pricing because we have to import all of the ash into California.
So the transportation costs are higher and we are able to recover those costs in our pricing so we’re closer to Portland cement.
And our final question comes from Charlie Smith from Fort Pitt Capital.
Please go ahead.
Congratulations on the excellent operating leverage in the quarter.
From your comments it sounds like it could’ve been even better.
Quick question on fly ash pricing.
Consistent increases in prices sort of beg the question is there any relationship potentially between supply shortages due to shutting down all these coal plants and the current pricing environment? Could that become a problem eventually? We don’t think that we’re seen very much impacted on the business from the shutdown of coal-fired power plants.
Generally we get high quality ash from a larger more efficient newer plan and they have not been they basically they don’t get shutdown.
And so we’re not saying a tremendous impact from the shutdown in the coal-fired power plant.
And we don’t think that’s what’s driving the pricing.
Okay.
Quick question on the stone business.
You mentioned 8% of your sales overseas.
Is that mostly in the stone segment? In stone and siding accessories are the two product groups that have the bulk of our international sales in the building products group.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Sharon Madden for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
We’d like to thank you for joining our call this morning.
In closing we continued to experience positive momentum in both of our business segments.
Our June quarter ended with strong performance and year-to-date revenue and adjusted EBITDA.
And we look forward to strong finish to our fiscal 2015.
With that we will conclude today’s call.
Thank you.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today’s presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Headwaters Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the conference over to Tricia Ross Financial Profiles.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Headwaters Inc.
fourth quarter and fiscal year 2015 conference call.
There are slides accompanying today's presentation that can be found on the webcast link on the Headwaters Inc.
website under the Events and Presentations tab.
Please go there to follow along with the slides.
If you have any issues please feel free to email me at tross@finprofiles.com and I can also email you a PDF copy.
With that I would now like to turn the call over to Sharon Madden Head of Investor Relations at Headwaters Inc.
Thank you Tricia.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
Today's call will be led by Kirk Benson Headwaters' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Don Newman Headwaters' Chief Financial Officer.
While listening to the call today it is important to remember that certain statements made during the call including statements relating to our expected future business and financial performance may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 both as amended.
Forward-looking statements by their very nature address matters that are to different degrees uncertain.
These uncertainties are described in more detail in Headwaters' Annual and Quarterly Reports filed with the SEC.
These filings are readily available from the SEC's website Headwaters' website or directly from the Company.
With that I'll turn the call over to Kirk Benson.
Thank you Sharon.
Our fiscal year 2015 was very positive for Headwaters and every meaningful metric trended up.
Revenue was up 13% gross profit up 20% operating income up 53% and adjusted EBITDA up 20%.
Highlights for the year included strong fly ash pricing and substantial increased at volume over a 200 basis point improvement in siding accessories adjusted EBITDA margin.
Consolidated adjusted EBITDA margins were up 110 basis points and exceeded our prior peak.
We reduced cash interest expense by 34% to a run rate of $31 million interest expense coverage of more than four times and a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 2.5 times.
Our adjusted earnings-per-share increased by 61% to $1.13.
We completed one bolt-on acquisition at the end of the September quarter and have nearly completed diligence on two additional potential transactions.
We also have a number of additional potential targets that have been identified.
Risk is minimal because of the close adjacency to our existing business operations allowing us to easily integrate bolt-on acquisitions.
We believe that we have developed a platform into which we can continue to pursue small acquisitions and the transactions that are currently in the due diligence process should result in strong synergies and margin expansion.
We finished the year with 9% organic growth and nearly 11% in the fourth quarter.
So growth was accelerating.
Revenue in October suggests that the strong organic growth will continue into 2016.
Based on the positive momentum built in 2015 and our view of continued improvement in our end markets we're initiating adjusted EBITDA guidance in the $175 million to $190 million range.
On slide 4 you can see revenues from our building product segment for the fiscal year increased by $51 million to $524 million an increase of 11% over last year.
Revenues increased 5% organically for the year despite soft international sales which were impacted by the strong U.S.
dollar softness in Canada and some overseas markets.
Growth was widespread as all four of our major product groups had revenue growth in fiscal year 2015.
Product introductions helped the growth as our new products have been well-received in the market.
For example our new specialty siding product that we introduced in the March quarter resulted in sales that more than doubled our first-year expectations.
Our new higher-margin block products contributed to the second straight year of greater than 100 basis points adjusted EBITDA margin expansion in the block group.
We continue to look for ways to grow the business both organically and through acquisitions as we offer best-in-class products to meet growth in customer demand.
Underlying fundamentals of our end markets continue to be strong.
Single-family housing starts grew 10% during our fiscal year.
Builders have experienced shortages in skill labor and other construction labor like drywallers and it has resulted in a more gradual recovery.
But demand remains very strong for construction and for our products used in new residential construction.
Growth accelerated in the September quarter as starts grew 15%.
We anticipate strong growth in 2016 in new residential construction markets as the labor markets adjust to demand and we rebuild necessary skills.
Our Texas block product group is performing exceptionally well enjoying strong demand for its product.
Its largest exposure is to the commercial and institutional end markets.
We have seen minimal to no impact from lower oil prices.
We completed a small bolt-on acquisition in our block product group in September.
The acquisition will strengthen our market position in the Austin market and should be quickly integrated into our block operation.
The increase in building products 2015 revenues led to a 16% improvement in adjusted EBITDA for the year improving from $88 million in 2014 to $102 million in 2015.
Margins improved by 90 basis points to 19.5% due to operating leverage in several product groups benefiting from lower raw material transportation and energy costs which more than offset cost inflation in other areas.
Now we'll shift to our construction material segment on slide 5.
You can see that our coal combustion products group completed the year with record revenue of $352 million compared to $309 million in 2014 a 14% year-over-year increase.
Revenue for the September 2015 quarter was $111 million compared to revenue of $98 million for the September 2014 quarter a 14% year-over-year increase.
Headwaters provides site services to many of our utility clients.
While these services typically have lower margins than our product sales they are not as seasonal as construction spending.
Site service revenue for 2015 was down at the beginning of the year as certain contracts were completed but trended flat on a year-over-year basis for the September quarter.
Site service revenue was 21% of our overall revenue for the year and 18% for the September quarter.
The smaller percentage of service revenue to total segment revenue was due to completed contracts earlier in the year but more importantly it was because of the growth in the sale of high-quality CCPs.
Tons of high-quality CCPs sold for 2015 increased over 10% year-over-year.
Total product revenue increased during the year driven by increased volume and gross price increases that netted 5% after revenue share with suppliers.
September 2015 quarter product revenues increased 17% year-over-year due to both the increase in tons shipped and price increases.
There have been some similar impacts from labor and equipment shortages in the concrete projects similar to what has occurred in new residential construction.
Again these shortages are being addressed.
And as they are addressed additional projects will be completed and demand should remain strong throughout 2016.
Adjusted EBITDA for 2015 increased 21% year-over-year to a record level of $81 million compared to $67 million in 2014.
We finished the year with an adjusted EBITDA margin of 23% an increase of 130 basis points year-over-year.
The improved margins for the year resulted from a shift in product mix and continued cost reductions through continuous improvement.
Adjusted EBITDA for the September 2015 quarter increased 15% to $28.9 million compared to $25.2 million for the September 2014 quarter.
We're starting out 2015 positively.
October overall was a relatively mild weather month despite rain in the Texas market.
We feel very positive about continued strong demand for fly ash and associated higher pricing.
We're seeing cement price increases being communicated to the market and are watching each market closely to determine where cement pricing will settle.
We expect a similar effect on flash pricing in many of our markets.
We're excited about the year that we just completed and look forward to a very positive 2016.
I would now like to turn the time over to Don Newman.
Thank you Kirk.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
I'll start with slide 6.
We finished the year with a strong quarter with sales of $273 million operating income of $41 million and adjusted EBITDA of $59 million increases of 11% 26% and 16% respectively over Q4 2014.
Our topline growth was almost exclusively organic as all of our segments showed healthy year-over-year increases.
Adjusted EPS was $0.51 per share up 38% from Q4 2014.
The adjusted EPS does not include $97 million of tax benefits associated with the release of deferred tax valuation reserves that we recorded this quarter.
Let's move to slide 7 for a closer look at the quarter.
This quarter was the 17th consecutive quarter of year-over-year revenue and adjusted EBITDA growth a clear indicator of sustained momentum.
As noted revenue increased 11% year-over-year substantially all of which was organic growth.
That 11% topline growth was a key reason for the significant increase in year-over-year profitability this quarter.
The 11% increase in revenue dropped through for a 15% increase in gross profit driving a 26% increase in operating income; and combined with a $4 million decrease in interest expense resulted in a 60% increase in pretax income from continuing operations.
Construction materials posted 14% revenue growth due to a strong pricing environment and modest volume growth.
And building products revenue grew 5% in part due to continued strength in our block business.
Our energy technology segment had a strong quarter due largely to the timing of HCAT shipments.
Interest expense for the quarter was $8 million approximately $4 million lower than 2014 which reflects the refinancing and debt repayment activities in the March 2015 quarter.
Let's move to slide 8 and take a closer look at the full-year results.
Revenue for the full year was nearly $900 million increasing $104 million and 13% over 2014.
The 13% growth includes 9% organic growth.
Our operating leverage can be seen in the growth of operating income as 13% revenue growth resulted in a 53% increase in operating income year-over-year.
Interest expense of $64 million includes approximately $25 million of charges related to our March refinancing and debt repayment.
Excluding those nonroutine interest charges our interest expense actually dropped from $46 million in 2014 to $39 million in 2015 reflecting our lower debt interest rates which now average just 5.2%.
Income from continuing operations was $132 million in 2015 versus approximately $16 million in 2014 an increase of approximately $116 million.
Excluding the tax valuation reserve release and March financing charges income from continuing operations was approximately $60 million an increase of approximately 264% over 2014 income of 16.5% -- $16.5 million rather.
Adjusted EPS which excludes the tax reserve release financing impacts and other non-routine items grew 61% year-over-year from $0.70 per share in 2014 to $1 13 per share in 2015.
Now let's spend a few minutes talking about income taxes.
We released $97 million of deferred tax valuation reserves in September.
That decision reflects our financial performance over the past several years as well as our outlook for the business.
We ended the quarter with pretax NOLs of $162 million and tax credit carryforwards of $25 million as well as a number of other net deferred tax assets which we estimate could shield approximately $250 million of future pretax profits.
The GAAP accounting rules around tax provisions are pretty complex and will result in our recognizing tax expense closer to statutory tax rates.
That is expected to be much higher than our cash tax expense as we're using those tax shields.
Our cash taxes will remain in the range of $4 million in 2016 largely due to state taxes.
Now let's move to slide 10 and talk about 2016 guidance.
We're carrying positive momentum into 2016.
We're initiating guidance for 2016 adjusted EBITDA to be in the range of $175 million to $190 million.
Key drivers to our 2016 performance will include continuing recovery in the residential housing and RNR end markets as well as demand for fly ash and favorable pricing dynamics for our high-quality fly ash.
Our guidance assumes growth in single-family starts in the high-single digits RNR percentage growth in the low-single digits and percentage growth for high-quality fly ash volumes and net prices in the mid-single digits.
Cost inflation in PVC polypropylene cement aggregates and transportation could also impact our 2016 performance.
We saw our adjusted EBITDA margins expand 90 basis points to 18.5% in fiscal 2015 and would expect modest expansion to margins in 2016 as well.
CapEx is expected to be in the range of $45 million to $50 million.
But I would add that we're seeing opportunity for good returns north of 20% on investments in growth CapEx beyond the $45 million to $50 million.
So there is a possibility that CapEx spend could be higher.
Cash interest expense is expected to be in the range of $31 million and book interest expense to be approximately $33 million.
We anticipate cash taxes as I said to be in the range of $4 million for 2016.
GAAP taxes are expected to be in the range of 39% of pretax income in 2016 excluding discrete items and 35% after discrete items.
So with that I'll turn the call back over to the operator and we will take questions.
[Operator Instructions].
The first question comes from Rob Hansen with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
So yes the first question I just wanted to ask was a little bit about your guidance.
And kind of talking about how you kind of came to those general assumptions.
Right? And specifically on the single-family up high-single digits I think this year we're probably going to be double digits and I think most of you are looking for double digits next year as well.
And then also kind of the same thing on the RNR growth as well.
So just wanted to see how you kind of came at those numbers.
I think that the numbers generally reflect the seasonality of our year.
So the bulk of our performance is in the June and September quarters.
And so we're entering into the December and March quarters.
And due to seasonality those are our softest quarters.
So we're at the beginning of that period of time.
And I think that those that are assumptions reflect that conservative guidance because we're at the beginning of our year and our first two quarters have that -- are the lower end of our performances in the first two quarters.
Okay.
And then let's say things kind of improve a little more than you expect should we expect the drop-down to be in that 45% range? Or are there going to be any type of growth investments made in the business that would impact that and make it lower? I don't think that we would expect -- first from a contribution margin standpoint we're still in that same range in the plus-40% range.
And of course as you're looking from 2015 to 2016 we would expect to see some inflation in our fixed cost structure which would work against that contribution margin.
But our contribution margins we expect to remain intact.
And as we continue to see topline growth we will see nice drop-through to the bottom line.
And then another question just related to the guidance.
Just on the commercial kind of infrastructure piece what are you guys kind of assuming there in terms of your fly ash volumes? I think that a lot of on the commercial and institutional construction that relates to the Texas market.
And we had a -- we had very strong growth in 2015.
We expect that to continue into 2016.
We're very optimistic about the commercial and institutional growth in the Texas market.
Infrastructure generally I think that we had a record year in 2015.
I think we will have another record year in 2016.
We ended up with very solid volume increases and very solid price increases.
And we think that those characteristics are going to carry over into 2016.
One last question just on your free cash flow I think you got it expected at about $85 million for this year.
What are you going to do with the cash flow -- I think you've already got around $30 million to $40 million earmarked on your balance sheet for acquisitions.
Right? So assuming that gets spent you'd still end up with a pretty nice cash balance at the end of next year.
What could you do that? And then also you mentioned the CapEx piece adding some more into that what would those projects be for? Thanks.
I think that we're going into this year with a high-quality set of potential bolt-on acquisitions.
We probably have more potential than we've ever had at the beginning of a year.
And so I think that we will be able to invest that cash and generate margin expansion for our different product groups and excellent returns on those investments.
From a CapEx perspective we're also seeing some new product development that we think we can have as -- short of a two-year payback on some of these CapEx investments.
So we're in the very positive position of having to allocate these resources to projects that should produce quite high returns on the investments and create value for shareholders.
The question comes from Rohit Seth with SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Just on the building products group for the fourth quarter can you comment on how the different product performed? And then could you just reflect on what you think the market growth is in each of those products in 2016? You guys take any shares any change in the mix there? Sure.
As I've indicated the group that probably performed the strongest was our commercial and institutional block product group in the Texas market.
We continue to see a very strong demand for our products in Texas.
And one of the things that we're doing is that we're emphasizing the specialty blocks and those products have higher margins.
One of our CapEx investments is to expand our capacity in that Texas market.
And we're working right now to put a new facility in place because we see growth not just in the typical grade block but in the specialty block products.
So we're excited about that.
Our roofing product set performed well during the year.
We're anticipating that that product group will grow in 2016.
It is -- it's predominantly repair and remodel so 80% 85% of repair and remodel.
But we're in these specialty niches that are growing faster than the end markets; we're basically taking share from asphalt products.
And so we expect that to continue into 2016.
Our stone group has more exposure to new residential construction than our other group.
And so we're clearly benefiting not just from single-family but we had some very good results in multifamily particularly in the Northeast this last year.
And we anticipate that we will continue to get good growth in 2016.
We're introducing some new products in our stone group and we expect those new products to be well-received in the marketplace and drive additional growth.
Siding accessories and our specialty siding product that we introduced in the spring our green product as I indicated in my remarks the -- it was well-received in the marketplace after the launch of last spring.
We're expanding that product line and expect that to drive growth in 2016.
So we're very optimistic about our product set our market share and being able to take advantage of improving end markets.
Okay.
And then on the guidance for construction materials how do you guys think about volume in the first half? You guys had some great numbers last year.
You said you were guiding up mid-single digits.
How has that progressed in the year? Yes I think we had 20% growth in the 12/31 and the 3/31 quarters this last year.
So you're absolutely correct.
The growth probably won't be that strong but -- because 20% is very high.
Our volumes correlate very strongly with Portland Cement.
And so in the analysis that we've done we have a very high R squared factor for our fly ash volumes.
So I think that we should perform -- in the markets in which we're competing we should perform at least as well as Portland Cement.
And so that's basically in that mid-single digit range.
Okay.
And then in that business if we were to get a federal highway bill -- and I think there's some talk about California working on a long-term bill I know that's an important market for you and Texas is voting today on increasing funding -- have you guys thought about how that affects your business? Is there any assumptions there in the volume side in your guidance? No I think those trends and the actions taken at the federal level and at the state levels will be upside to our guidance.
Okay.
And then there's no M&amp;A baked into your guidance as well on the building products or the fly ash? No.
Okay.
And then did you -- I might have missed it -- did you comment on what the volume growth was in the fourth quarter in fly ash and the pricing? Yes.
The pricing was the strongest it's ever been.
I think it was about 3% in the first quarter last year and we finished in the fourth quarter at net 7%.
So again you have to gross that up for the revenue share.
But the net increase in the fourth quarter was 7%.
So it went from -- through the quarters 3% 5% 6% and 7%.
So it continually got stronger throughout the year.
And that really bodes well of course for 2016.
Volume was in the -- was right in between low-single digits and mid-single digits.
The next question comes from John Quealy with Canaccord.
Please go ahead.
Kirk just coming back to the questions on ash.
I'm sorry -- cumulatively what have been price increases across the business? I thought we were -- through Q3 I thought we were at like 14% or something a little bit better than that? On fly ash of course I have this little bit of confusion.
So we talk about net price increase and gross price increase.
The net is the one that we talk about most because we do have an increase in revenue share.
And so when we raise prices we're sharing that increase in price with our utility suppliers.
And the net price is important because that's what ends up impacting our EBITDA margins.
And so in the fourth quarter our net price increase was 7%.
And that is really the highest John it's ever been.
We've never experienced higher pricing than we did in the fourth quarter.
You could use a 40% revenue share to gross that up.
And so that's basically where we had ended up for the year -- and back in the fourth quarter.
And so in the positive commentary on the first-half pricing is that just lagging market conditions Kirk? I mean obviously seasonally we slow down shipments a little bit and go into a net storage capability.
But give us a little bit more detail if you could on the dynamics about why you feel confident on price in a seasonally weak period? Yes.
The reason that we're going to have strong price comparisons year-over-year in the 12/31 and the 3/31 quarters because what we're communicating to you is a comparison of our weighted average prices in the -- now in the 2016 -- like in the 12/31/15 quarter our first 2016 quarter will compare our average weighted price in that 12/31/15 quarter with the 12/31/14 quarter and because we have had price increases throughout from the spring through September those price increases will roll over or wrap around into the 12/31 and the 3/31 quarters.
And so it is -- we would anticipate strong year-over-year price comparisons in those two quarters.
The one thing that could change that is if we get really good volume.
I mean it's -- because it's a weighted average volume could impact that.
But there is -- I mean I think that all of the indications would be that we will have very strong price comparisons in 12/31 and 3/31 quarters.
I understand.
Is there any plans for new price increases to -- I understand the math from time weighted and all that but moving forward -- no.
You'd have to wait until the summer to figure out if you'd raise prices.
Is that right? Well we anticipate raising prices.
We think the market is very strong.
We would anticipate price increases in the spring and into the early summer months as you'd typically find in the business.
And so I think we're going to get good price increases again.
And so back to the light building products or what used to be called the light building product segment.
When we were out at Clear Kirk you'd mentioned that that business is benefiting from low petroleum-derived raws and I think you gave sort of an explanation of perhaps that's a bottom.
Can you talk about how much benefit you got year-on-year in fiscal 2015 from a lower oil price? And what sort of raws are you building in? I assume they are a negative headwind in that margin in 2016.
I think that we're anticipating in 2016 that the benefit that we have gained and really there are two benefits.
One is there's lower prices because of lower raw material costs but the other thing that we have done is we have improved the quality of the product.
And as we have improved the quality of the product it's allowed us to reduce the cost of the product.
And we anticipate that those improvements will continue into 2016 and it won't be as strong of a tailwind in 2016 as it was in 2015 but we think that it won't be a headwind either.
Just to give you an idea of quantum if you look at the fact that PVC for example is dropping through the year and then hit a floor and we experienced probably something in the range of $1 million of year-over-year cost savings because of that decrease just in broad strokes.
And so obviously we don't know for sure what's going to happen with PVC prices going forward if they remain at this level then that will continue to be a good guide to us in terms of additional margin in our products.
And if the price starts going up again what that will mean is in your year-over-year comparisons they're -- it depends on how quickly it would go up whether or not it would be a year-over-year negative or if it would be kind of year-over-year flat because as I said the prices were decreasing during the year.
Does that help some? Yes.
No it does.
Thanks for giving some bounds there.
Then my last question.
So on M&amp;A sounds like there's a couple things close Kirk and Don.
So it looks like debt is what about all-in 5% paper? Can you talk about what you'd do to the cap structure to deal with those acquisitions? Congrats on again on getting the EBITDA down from just some really high levels four or five years ago.
But walk us through if you would what we should be exiting debt to EBITDA assuming that we've got a couple deals done in the year.
Thanks guys.
First when you reduce your cash by investing in these acquisitions that has an impact on the debt to EBITDA ratio.
But I think as we have continued growth I don't think you're -- I think we're still going to be in that 2.5 to 3 range even if we do acquisitions.
We feel very positive about that.
We will use the cash off the balance sheet first to do acquisitions.
If we have bolt-on acquisitions that exceed our cash abilities then we would probably turn to our bank debt and increase our bank debt a little bit.
So it -- we're very -- we feel very fortunate to be in the position we're in to do these transactions to be able to do them efficiently and to invest this cash and remove it from our balance sheet and invest it in high-return operations.
Our objective has been with the capital structure is to get it fixed and put ourselves in a position where we've got -- had good options.
And we're in that position.
So we exited the year at a 2.5 times.
And as you look at the opportunities and the cash flow generation potential that we're looking at for 2016 it wouldn't be crazy to think about us exiting the year at something at a similar multiple.
But it all depends upon our putting that money to work through either M&amp;A activity or through nice returning CapEx investment.
So they are good options that we're facing.
The next question comes from John Baugh with Stifel.
Please go ahead.
My first question is substitution rate.
Do you have any color on fly ash whether you're seeing that number move up -- I don't know when you get data or insight or intel on that? And then should there be any expectation going out in time that you might see your numbers grow a little faster than Portland Cement? So with the data we get from the trade association the ACA comes in December.
So December of 2015 we'll get the 2014 data so it lags about a year.
And so the only thing we can speak to is really anecdotal evidence.
And what we would expect would happen is that the trend in 2014 basically would have flattened.
And I think what we're seeing is say in 2015 is an increase in that substitution rate.
If you go back to 2003 through 2006 during that period of an upcycle there was an increase in the substitution rate.
And we don't have any reason to believe that that won't happen again.
So we would anticipate that in this upcycle as we near the capacity of U.S.
production of Portland Cement what we would probably see is a pickup in the substitution rate.
And then staying on fly ash could you speak to storage new contracts utilities or -- just speak to me about the supply of fly ash update us again on where you are in sort of selling or utilization of your supply and whether your supply out into the future is growing.
Thank you.
So from 2007 that's when we peaked as far as the number of tons sold at prior peak through 2015 we increased the supply of our high-quality CCPs by about 1.5 million tons.
And so even during this period of time when there's been a lot of pressure on coal and on coal-fired power plants we have been able to increase supply.
And we've increased supply through additional contracts through storage through our RestoreAir technology through blending and we think that those tools will allow us to continue to increase supply.
So we believe in 2016 our supply is going to increase.
As we implement our RestoreAir technology at additional facilities what that technology does is it improves the quality of fly ash.
And we will invest in additional storage.
And so we believe that our supply is going to continue to grow in 2016.
You do have to -- the only caveat is that it is a local and regional market and so we have to continue to focus on a local basis to increase supply.
So are we still turnaround I don't know 60% 70% or something of what we're selling versus what we theoretically have as supply available to sell? Or help us with that ratio.
We're selling about 75% of the seasonally adjusted available supply.
Okay.
And my final question is simply -- are there any signs in any area of your business of a recent sequential slowdown? I understand the seasonality part.
Getting a lot of mixed signals there out there both on housing and on some of the infrastructure side.
Any signs of a crack anywhere? So I think we're seeing the lack of skilled workers in the repair and remodel and in new residential construction.
So that is having a tempering effect on many projects.
We have seen occasions when in the infrastructure side of the business where there haven't been enough Ready Mix trucks to really get the concrete to the project.
And so you see things you see issues like that they are clearly occurring.
When we went through the downcycle there was a lot of labor that left the industry.
It's going to take time for the labor markets to adjust to the upcycle.
And so I think we feel really good about new residential construction next year.
I think that by and large we're going to have improvements that are consistent with or better than the assumptions that were in our guidance.
So we continue to feel pretty good about the end markets John.
The next question comes from Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
Please go ahead.
Just want to follow-up on the commentary about modest volumes on the fly ash side in the fourth quarter.
And secondly how that relates to maybe the pricing number that you shared? And I guess if we extrapolate with what you're saying is you're encouraging us to include something with the seven handle in terms of the out-year or the current year for pricing in this business.
Could you square those out? Yes.
So on the fly ash prices what we're talking about -- the assumption that was in our model was up mid-single digits.
And so we had -- in the fourth quarter we were up 7% net.
And so what we're talking about is up mid-single digits net price increase for 2016.
I think that we're going to -- we should have very strong comparisons in the 12/31 and 3/31 quarters.
I think we're going to have price increases in the spring.
Of course we don't know what those price increases are going to be yet.
And so we've modeled up mid-single digits on a net basis.
Okay.
And in the commentary about modest volumes in Q4 given it's one of the stronger seasons I was a little surprised by that comment.
So is there some type of deceleration? Or is it just the seasonal -- I'm not sure I understand why the volumes would have been so modest.
Yes I think what you see is that -- you need to look at a longer period of time than a quarter.
You can have instances where you could have a local outage.
You could have instances where you have -- that wasn't a lot of weather that impacted the 9/30 quarter.
We did have -- we had a very solid October but there was some weather impact.
And so you have to look really at local circumstances.
And if you look at a longer period of time we had a 10% increase in volume for the year.
And we have -- we put into our guidance up mid-single digits.
So I think if you look at the cement forecasts which are around 7% up mid-single digits is probably a conservative forecast compared to where Portland Cement is at.
Okay.
If I just may transition to RNR spending and on the light building product side can you comment on what you're seeing in terms of the spending particularly as it relates to exterior? Margins were a little bit lighter than we had modeled and I'm just wondering if the combination of mix plus you're not getting as much acceleration on spending in that particular category? I think the biggest driver is mix as far as the margins are concerned.
And because -- like our -- for example our roofing products are newer for us and so we haven't yet gotten to what we define as leadership economics on those roofing niche products.
So that weighs down on the overall EBITDA margins because of mix.
And I would add to that our block business that has been performing just fantastically it's a great business.
It has really good margins for a block business but those margins are lower than our average margins.
And so when it has outsized growth and great performance that can affect our average.
We will take it because the business is a fantastic business and it continues to improve.
But it does affect the margin on average.
Okay.
So you have both the roofing and the block kind of bring down your overall average.
The comment and then a question on CapEx.
If I extract from SG&amp;A the comp number is it fair to say that just with inflation that helps explain the larger dollar print at least the expansion relative to Q3 2015 the Q4 of 2015 in that same comparable period last year.
So I don't know if you have a comment on that.
If it's just inflation ex the comp that's fair.
Wondering if there's anything structurally changed there? And then secondly CapEx meaningfully above historical periods at the $50 million range or $45 million to $50 million plus commentary about some excellent growth CapEx opportunities that aren't captured in that number.
Help us appreciate the control that you are in place on getting the right returns on what seems to be either a higher maintenance spend on total CapEx or certainly some interesting growth opportunities in your near-term side.
Well a quick comment on the SG&amp;A there's nothing structurally that's really taking place in the business at all.
It is -- as you indicated we basically accrue for a variable compensation in the 9/30 quarter.
On the CapEx I think we're as disciplined in the CapEx expenditures as we're in the M&amp;A expenditures.
We're focused on CapEx investments where the returns will be quite a bit higher than our weighted average cost of capital.
And I gave one example of a CapEx expenditure in the Texas market.
We're really -- towards the end of the year we reached our capacity at -- in our block manufacturing.
And we've spent six to nine months identifying an opportunity that not only increases our capacity in the market what it does it allows us to take some of the specialty block products that we were running on what's called a besser machine and move them to what's called a big board machine.
It will greatly impact the efficiency of our operations.
So not only are we going to increase capacity we're going to get some of the more difficult products to manufacture onto a machine that is designed to manufacture them.
And so it should improve our efficiencies.
And so that CapEx expenditure not only do we believe it will increase our revenue because of additional capacity it will increase our efficiency.
And we should have some margin expansion associated with that CapEx expenditure.
There's a number of opportunities like that that we're pursuing this year.
And I would like to add just a couple things.
One on SG&amp;A is we have said before that our objective is to continue to work down our SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue.
And we're on track to I believe hit our target of SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue below 15% when we get to closer to mid-cycle levels.
If you look at the 2015 performance we actually reduced our SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue despite the compensation that was recorded here in fiscal 2015.
We took 70 basis points off that percentage taking it down from 17.4% last year to 16.7% this year.
We would expect that when we get out to 2016 we will again see an incremental improvement in that percentage as we continue to leverage that part of our fixed cost structure.
So very positive.
What I would add to the CapEx discussion is when you look at our CapEx it -- we can add -- typically add significant capacity manufacturing capacity with modest CapEx investment.
Part of the reason for that is the benefit of the continuous improvement that we have brought into the culture of the business.
We have been able to do some pretty I think special things around gaining efficiencies with equipment reducing the need for equipment on certain footprints -- which means when you want to expand capacity and put in more equipment you're typically able to do that on an existing footprint which has significant benefits from a return standpoint and a cost standpoint.
And so as we talk about maybe putting in a plant in Texas we're not talking about tens of millions of dollars by any stretch.
It's something much more modest than that.
And the returns like we said we believe could be very very good for the business and the shareholders.
The next question comes from Dan Mannes with Avondale.
Please go ahead.
A couple quick follow-ups.
First you mentioned the acquisition of the block business in Austin.
Can you give any color around that the materiality of that acquisition? It's generally not material to the business.
It will end up being positive we will have good returns; it's just pretty small.
So that's number one.
Quickly on the ash business obviously you are doing a really good job of managing and adding supply in what's been a pretty difficult environment.
I wanted to follow-up on one of your comments there what about the locational side of it? Just I'm wondering if you are seeing maybe some shifts in locations given we're seeing obviously lower code utilization Pennsylvania tax et cetera and I'm wondering if your RestoreAir is maybe giving you more volume in other places? So I don't know if you can talk about the impact of maybe puts and takes in terms of ash volume.
I think the place where volume is at most risk is in the Northeast.
They are older smaller facilities and that's where the RestoreAir has the greatest application.
Although when people are using activated carbon that occurs in both large and small facilities.
But what we -- but where we're at most risk is where there are small older coal-fired power plants.
Okay.
And then just the last comment I have on the HCM business on the service side we've now seen the F1 guidelines finally get published so we should have more visibility from a utility perspective on spend on cleanup.
Where are you as it relates to service work? And are you starting to see opportunities for larger service work coming your way? I think that's starting but I think that would be an excellent question a year from now.
The utilities are about as slow as they can be.
So I think that you are about one year ahead on that question Dan.
So some of the early adopters people like Duke I think we've seen some work out of First Energy you are not aligned with those opportunities? You're maybe looking elsewhere? Well we're starting to see a little bit of activity but it's not something that we can build into a model or anything like that yet.
Our final question comes from David Daglio with The Boston Company.
Please go ahead.
My question has been asked and answered.
Thank you.
So this concludes our question and answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Sharon Madden for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
We would like to thank you all for joining us this morning.
In closing fiscal 2015 was a very positive year for Headwaters with Q4 being the 17th consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth in both revenue and adjusted EBITDA.
So as we move into fiscal 2016 we're experiencing positive momentum and we look forward to another strong finish for fiscal 2016.
With that we will conclude today's call.
Thank you.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.